<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20130219_10-K_edgar_data_37996_0000037996-13-000014_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>83156430</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>767997</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>36973293</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>17540648</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>21250513</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>5746021</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>187</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>25</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000037996-13-000014.hdr.sgml : 20130219
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20130219071251
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000037996-13-000014
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		57
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20121231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20130219
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20130219

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			FORD MOTOR CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000037996
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES [3711]
		IRS NUMBER:				380549190
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-03950
		FILM NUMBER:		13621433

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE AMERICAN ROAD
		CITY:			DEARBORN
		STATE:			MI
		ZIP:			48126
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3133223000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE AMERICAN RD
		CITY:			DEARBORN
		STATE:			MI
		ZIP:			48126

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000037996-13-000014.txt : 20130219

10-K
 1
 f12312012-10k.htm
 10-K

F 12.31.2012- 10K 

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  Washington, DC 20549 
    
  FORM 10-K 

Ford Motor Company 
  (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) 
    
                 Delaware 
    38-0549190 
      (State of incorporation) 
    (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 

One American Road, Dearborn, Michigan 
    48126 
      (Address of principal executive offices) 
    (Zip Code) 

313-322-3000 
  (Registrant s telephone number, including area code) 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
                   Title of each class 
      
    Name of each exchange on which registered* 
      Common Stock, par value $.01 per share 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

__________ 
  *  In addition, shares of Common Stock of Ford are listed on certain stock exchanges in Europe. 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:    None. 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.       Yes    R    No    o 
    
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.     Yes    o      No    R 
    
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes    R     No    o 
    
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).     Yes    R     No    o 
    
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.       R    
    
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company.  See definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.     Large accelerated filer   R       Accelerated filer   o       Non-accelerated filer   o   Smaller reporting company   o  
    
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).    Yes    o     No    R 
    
  As of June 29, 2012, Ford had outstanding 3,742,926,268 shares of Common Stock and 70,852,076 shares of Class B Stock.  Based on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction closing price of the Common Stock on that date ($9.59 per share), the aggregate market value of such Common Stock was $35,894,662,910.  Although there is no quoted market for our Class B Stock, shares of Class B Stock may be converted at any time into an equal number of shares of Common Stock for the purpose of effecting the sale or other disposition of such shares of Common Stock.  The shares of Common Stock and Class B Stock outstanding at June 29, 2012 included shares owned by persons who may be deemed to be "affiliates" of Ford.  We do not believe, however, that any such person should be considered to be an affiliate.  For information concerning ownership of outstanding Common Stock and Class B Stock, see the Proxy Statement for Ford's Annual Meeting of Stockholders currently scheduled to be held on May 9, 2013 (our "Proxy Statement"), which is incorporated by reference under various Items of this Report as indicated below. 
    
  As of February 1, 2013, Ford had outstanding 3,851,395,591 shares of Common Stock and 70,852,076 shares of Class B Stock.  Based on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction closing price of the Common Stock on that date ($13.02 per share), the aggregate market value of such Common Stock was $50,145,170,595. 

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

__________ 
           * 
    As stated under various Items of this Report, only certain specified portions of such document are incorporated by reference in this Report. 

Exhibit Index begins on page   

FORD MOTOR COMPANY 
  ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K 
  For the Year Ended   December 31, 2012    

Table of Contents 
      
    Page 
        
     Part I  

Item 1 
     Business  
      
    1 
        
     Overview  
      
    2 
        
     Automotive Sector  
      
    3 
        
     Financial Services Sector  
      
    10 
        
     Governmental Standards  
      
    11 
        
     Employment Data  
      
    16 
        
     Engineering, Research, and Development  
      
    16 
      Item 1A 
    Risk Factors 
      
    17 
      Item 1B 
    Unresolved Staff Comments 
      
    22 
      Item 2 
    Properties 
      
    23 
      Item 3 
     Legal Proceedings  
      
    25 
      Item 4 
    Mine Safety Disclosures 
      
    26 
      Item 4A 
    Executive Officers of Ford 
      
    27 
        
    Part II 

Item 5 
     Market for Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
      
    28 
      Item 6 
    Selected Financial Data 
      
    29 
      Item 7 
     Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
      
    30 
        
    Overview 
      
    30 
        
     Results of Operations  
      
    38 
        
     Automotive Sector  
      
    40 
        
     Financial Services Sector  
      
    53 
        
     Liquidity and Capital Resources  
      
    57 
        
     Outlook  
      
    66 
        
    Critical Accounting Estimates 
      
    71 
        
     Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Adopted  
      
    76 
        
    Aggregate Contractual Obligations 
      
    77 
      Item 7A 
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
      
    78 
        
    Overview 
      
    78 
        
     Automotive    Sector 
      
    78 
        
    Financial Services Sector 
      
    80 
      Item 8 
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 
      
    81 
      Item 9 
    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
      
    81 
      Item 9A 
     Controls and Procedures  
      
    82 
      Item 9B 
    Other Information 
      
    82 
        
     Part II   I 

Item 10 
     Directors, Executive Officers of Ford and Corporate Governance  
      
    83 
      Item 11 
     Executive Compensation  
      
    83 
      Item 12 
     Security Ownership of  Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
      
    83 
      Item 13 
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
      
    83 
      Item 14 
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services  
      
    83 

i 

Table of Contents 
  (continued) 
                       
     Part IV  

Item 15 
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  
      
    84 
        
     Signatures  
      
    88 
        
    Ford Motor Company and Subsidiaries Financial Statements 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
      
    FS-1 
        
     Consolidated Income Statement  
      
    FS-2 
        
    Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
      
    FS-2 
        
     Sector Income Statement  
      
    FS-3 
        
     Consolidated Balance Sheet  
      
    FS-4 
        
     Sector Balance Sheet  
      
    FS-5 
        
    Condensed    Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows  
      
    FS-6 
        
    Condensed    Sector Statement of Cash Flows  
      
    FS-7 
        
     Consolidated Statement of Equity  
      
    FS-8 
        
     Notes to the Financial Statements  
      
    FS-9 
        
    Schedule II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 
      
    FSS-1 

ii 

PART I. 
    ITEM 1.   Business. 
    
  Ford Motor Company (referred to herein as "Ford," the "Company," "we," "our," or "us") was incorporated in Delaware in 1919.  We acquired the business of a Michigan company, also known as Ford Motor Company, which had been incorporated in 1903 to produce and sell automobiles designed and engineered by Henry Ford.  We are one of the world's largest producers of automobiles.  We and our subsidiaries also engage in other businesses, including financing vehicles. 
    
  In addition to the information about Ford and our subsidiaries contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 ("2012 Form 10-K Report" or "Report"), extensive information about our Company can be found at   www.corporate.ford.com  , including information about our management team, our brands and products, and our corporate governance principles. 
    
  The corporate governance information on our website includes our Corporate Governance Principles, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Personnel, Code of Ethics for the Board of Directors, Code of Corporate Conduct for all employees, and the Charters for each of the Committees of our Board of Directors.  In addition, any amendments to our Code of Ethics or waivers granted to our directors and executive officers will be posted in this area of our website.  All of these documents may be accessed by going to our corporate website and clicking on "Our Company," then "Corporate Governance," and then "Corporate Governance Policies," or may be obtained free of charge by writing to our Shareholder Relations Department, Ford Motor Company, One American Road, P.O. Box 1899, Dearborn, Michigan 48126-1899. 
    
  In addition, all of our recent periodic report filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge through our website.  This includes recent Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those Reports.  Recent Section 16 filings made with the SEC by the Company or any of our executive officers or directors with respect to our Common Stock also are made available free of charge through our website.  We post each of these documents on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after it is electronically filed with the SEC. 
    
  To access our SEC reports or amendments or the Section 16 filings, go to our corporate website and click "Our Company," then "Investor Relations," then "Reports and SEC Filings," and then "SEC Filings," which links to a list of reports filed with the SEC.  Our reports filed with the SEC also may be found on the SEC's website at   www.sec.gov  . 
    
  The foregoing information regarding our website and its content is for convenience only and not deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Report nor filed with the SEC. 
    
    1 

      ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)                                                                                                                                          

   OVERVIEW 
    
  Segments.    We review and present our business results in two sectors:  Automotive and Financial Services.  Within these sectors, our business is divided into reportable segments based on the organizational structure that we use to evaluate performance and make decisions on resource allocation, as well as availability and materiality of separate financial results consistent with that structure. 
    
  The reportable segments within our Automotive and Financial Services sectors at December 31, 2012 were as described in the table below: 
                   Business Sector 
    Reportable Segments (a) 
    Description 
      Automotive: 
    Ford North America 
    Primarily includes the sale of Ford- and Lincoln-brand vehicles, service parts, and accessories in North America (the United States, Canada, and Mexico), together with the associated costs to develop, manufacture, distribute, and service the vehicles, parts, and accessories. (b) 
        
    Ford South America 
    Primarily includes the sale of Ford-brand vehicles, service parts, and accessories in South America, together with the associated costs to develop, manufacture, distribute, and service the vehicles, parts, and accessories. 
        
    Ford Europe 
    Primarily includes the sale of Ford-brand vehicles, components, service parts, and accessories in Europe, Turkey, and Russia, together with the associated costs to develop, manufacture, distribute, and service the vehicles, parts, and accessories. 
        
    Ford Asia Pacific Africa 
    Primarily includes the sale of Ford-brand vehicles, service parts, and accessories in the Asia Pacific region and South Africa, together with the associated costs to develop, manufacture, distribute, and service the vehicles, parts, and accessories. 
      Financial Services: 
    Ford Motor Credit Company 
    Primarily includes vehicle-related financing, leasing, and insurance. 
        
    Other Financial Services 
    Includes a variety of businesses including holding companies and real estate. 

__________  
           (a) 
    We have experienced a number of changes to our reportable segments within the last five years, including the following: 
                
    We discontinued the Mercury brand as of the end of 2010. 
                 
    Based on significant reductions in our stock ownership, beginning with the fourth quarter of 2008 we have accounted for our interest in Mazda Motor Corporation ("Mazda") as a marketable security (instead of as an operating segment). 
                (b) 
    For periods prior to January 1, 2009, this segment also included the sale of Mazda6 vehicles produced by our then-consolidated affiliate AutoAlliance International, Inc. ("AAI").  AAI was an unconsolidated affiliate in 2009 - 2011, but was restructured in 2012 and consolidated. 
       
    2 

      ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)                                                                                                                                          

   AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR 
    
  General 
    
  Our vehicle brands are Ford and Lincoln.  In 2012, we sold approximately 5,668,000 vehicles at wholesale throughout the world.  See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" ("Item 7") for discussion of our calculation of wholesale unit volumes. 
    
  Substantially all of our vehicles, parts, and accessories are marketed through retail dealers in North America, and through distributors and dealers outside of North America (collectively, "dealerships"), the substantial majority of which are independently owned.  At December 31, 2012, the approximate number of dealerships worldwide distributing our vehicle brands was as follows: 

We do not depend on any single customer or small group of customers to the extent that the loss of such customer or group of customers would have a material adverse effect on our business.  
    
  In addition to the products we sell to our dealerships for retail sale, we also sell vehicles to our dealerships for sale to fleet customers, including commercial fleet customers, daily rental car companies, and governments.  We also sell parts and accessories, primarily to our dealerships (which in turn sell these products to retail customers) and to authorized parts distributors (which in turn primarily sell these products to retailers).  Through our dealerships, we also offer extended service contracts to retail customers.  
    
  The worldwide automotive industry, Ford included, is affected significantly by general economic conditions, among other factors, over which we have little control.  This is especially so because vehicles are durable goods, which provide consumers latitude in determining whether and when to replace an existing vehicle.  The decision whether to purchase a vehicle may be affected significantly by slowing economic growth, geopolitical events, and other factors (including the cost of purchasing and operating cars and trucks and the availability and cost of credit and fuel).  As we recently have seen in the United States and Europe, in particular, the number of cars and trucks sold may vary substantially from year to year.  Further, the automotive industry is a highly competitive business that has a wide and growing variety of product offerings from a growing number of manufacturers. 
    
  Our wholesale unit volumes vary with the level of total industry demand and our share of that industry demand.  In the short term, our wholesale unit volumes also are influenced by the level of dealer inventory.  Our share is influenced by how our products are perceived in comparison to those offered by other manufacturers based on many factors, including price, quality, styling, reliability, safety, fuel efficiency, functionality, and reputation.  Our share also is affected by the timing and frequency of new model introductions.  Our ability to satisfy changing consumer preferences with respect to type or size of vehicle, as well as design and performance characteristics, impacts our sales and earnings significantly. 
    
  As with other manufacturers, the profitability of our business is affected by many factors, including: 

Wholesale unit volumes 
                
    Margin of profit on each vehicle sold - which in turn is affected by many factors, such as: 
                
    Market factors - volume and mix of vehicles and options sold, and net pricing (reflecting, among other factors, incentive programs)   
                
    Costs of components and raw materials necessary for production of vehicles 
                
    Costs for customer warranty claims and additional service actions 
                
    Costs for safety, emissions, and fuel economy technology and equipment 
                
    A high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, so that small changes in wholesale unit volumes can significantly affect overall profitability 
       
  Our industry has a very competitive pricing environment, driven in part by industry excess capacity, particularly in mature markets such as North America and Europe.  For the past several decades, manufacturers typically have given  
    3 

      ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)                                                                                                                                          

   price discounts and other marketing incentives to maintain market share and production levels.  A discussion of our strategies to compete in this pricing environment is set forth in the "Overview" section in Item 7. 
    
  Competitive Position.    The worldwide automotive industry consists of many producers, with no single dominant producer.  Certain manufacturers, however, account for the major percentage of total sales within particular countries, especially their countries of origin.  Key competitors with global presence include Fiat-Chrysler, General Motors Company, Honda Motor Company, Hyundai-Kia Automotive Group, PSA Peugeot Citroen, Renault-Nissan B.V., Suzuki Motor Corporation, Toyota Motor Corporation, and Volkswagen AG Group.   
    
  Seasonality.    We generally record the sale of a vehicle (and recognize revenue) when it is produced and shipped or delivered to our customer (i.e., the dealership).  See the "Overview" section in Item 7 for additional discussion of revenue recognition practices. 
    
  We manage our vehicle production schedule based on a number of factors, including retail sales (i.e., units sold by our dealerships to their customers at retail) and dealer stock levels (i.e., the number of units held in inventory by our dealerships for sale to their customers).  In the past, we have experienced some seasonal fluctuation in the business, with production in many markets tending to be higher in the first half of the year to meet demand in the spring and summer (typically the strongest sales months of the year).   
    
  Raw Materials.    We purchase a wide variety of raw materials from numerous suppliers around the world for use in production of our vehicles.  These materials include ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), non-ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), energy (e.g., natural gas), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene).  We believe that we have adequate supplies or sources of availability of raw materials necessary to meet our needs.  There always are risks and uncertainties with respect to the supply of raw materials, however, which could impact availability in sufficient quantities to meet our needs.  See the "Overview" section of Item 7 for a discussion of commodity and energy price trends, and "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" ("Item 7A") for a discussion of commodity price risks. 
    
  Backlog Orders.    We generally produce and ship our products on average within approximately 20 days after an order is deemed to become firm.  Therefore, no significant amount of backlog orders accumulates during any period. 
    
  Intellectual Property.    We own or hold licenses to use numerous patents, copyrights, and trademarks on a global basis.  Our policy is to protect our competitive position by, among other methods, filing U.S. and international patent applications to protect technology and improvements that we consider important to the development of our business.  We have generated a large number of patents, and expect this portfolio to continue to grow as we actively pursue additional technological innovation.  We currently have approximately 20,600 active patents and pending patent applications globally, with an average age for patents in our active patent portfolio of just under five and a half years.  In addition to this intellectual property, we also rely on our proprietary knowledge and ongoing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position.  Although we believe that these patents, patent applications, and know-how, in the aggregate, are important to the conduct of our business, and we obtain licenses to use certain intellectual property owned by others, none is individually considered material to our business.  We also own numerous trademarks and service marks that contribute to the identity and recognition of our Company and its products and services globally.  Certain of these marks are integral to the conduct of our business, a loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 
    
  Warranty Coverage and Additional Service Actions.    We currently provide warranties on vehicles we sell.  Warranties are offered for specific periods of time and/or mileage, and vary depending upon the type of product, usage of the product, and the geographic location of its sale.  In compliance with regulatory requirements, we also provide emissions-defects and emissions-performance warranty coverage.  Pursuant to these warranties, we will repair, replace, or adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship during the specified warranty period.  In addition to the costs associated with this warranty coverage provided on our vehicles, we also incur costs as a result of additional service actions, including product recalls and customer satisfaction actions. 
    
  For additional information regarding warranty and related costs, see "Critical Accounting Estimates" in Item 7 and Note 31 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
    4 

      ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)                                                                                                                                          

   Industry Sales Volume 
    
  Industry sales volume is an internal estimate based on publicly-available data collected from various government, private, and public sources around the globe.  The following chart shows industry sales volume for the last five years for certain key markets in each region, and for the total we track within each of our Ford North America, Ford South America, Ford Europe, and Ford Asia Pacific Africa regions (in millions of units): 

______________ 
           (a) 
    Throughout this Report, industry sales volume and wholesale unit volumes include sales of medium and heavy trucks.   
              (b) 
    Ford South America industry sales volume and market share are based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations for the six markets we track in the region (i.e., Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, and Venezuela).   
              (c) 
    Ford Europe industry sales volume and market share are based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations for the 19 markets we track (i.e., Austria, Belgium, Britain, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland); sales of Ford-brand vehicles in Turkey and Russia by our unconsolidated affiliates Ford Otomotiv Sanayi Anonim Sirketi ("Ford Otosan") and Ford Sollers Netherlands B.V. ("FordSollers"), respectively, contribute to Ford Europe's wholesale unit volumes, but are not reflected in industry sales volume or market share for the region.  
              (d) 
    ASEAN includes Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand, and Vietnam. 
              (e) 
    Ford Asia Pacific Africa industry sales volume and market share are based, in part, on estimated vehicle sales for the 12 markets we track (i.e., Australia, China, Japan, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, New Zealand, Philippines, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand, and Vietnam); market share data for 2008 to the present include Ford and local-brand vehicles produced by our unconsolidated affiliates, including our Chinese joint venture Jiangling Motors Corporation, Ltd. ("JMC").  
       
    5 

      ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)                                                                                                                                          

   Ford North America 
    
  The following tables show our wholesales and market share by market in North America: 

______________ 
  (a) Throughout this Report, wholesale unit volumes include all Ford-badged units (whether produced by Ford or by an unconsolidated affiliate), units manufactured by Ford that are sold to other manufacturers and units distributed for other manufacturers, and JMC-brand vehicles produced by our unconsolidated affiliate.  Revenue from certain vehicles in wholesale unit volumes (specifically, Ford-badged vehicles produced and distributed by our unconsolidated affiliates, and JMC-brand vehicles produced by our unconsolidated affiliate) are not included in our revenue.  Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option, as well as other sales of finished vehicles for which the recognition of revenue is deferred (e.g., consignments), are included in wholesale unit volumes. 
           (b) 
    Throughout this Report, regional wholesale unit volumes include wholesales to various export markets.   

______________ 
  (a)  Throughout this Report, market share represents reported retail sales of our brands as a percent of total industry sales volume in the relevant market (as opposed to wholesale unit volumes reflecting sales directly by us to our customers, generally our dealers).   
    
  United States.    The competitive environment in the United States continues to intensify as foreign manufacturers continue to increase both imports to the United States and production capacity in North America.  During 2012, Japanese manufacturers fully recovered from the production disruptions caused by natural disasters the previous year, production capacity expanded, and post-recessionary new product cadence strengthened among most manufacturers.   
    
  Overall, we see a long-term industry trend toward smaller and more fuel-efficient vehicles; the small car segment has increased its share from 14% in 2004 to nearly 21% in 2012 - one of the most significant segment shifts in the industry.  Sales of small cars showed the strongest expansion of any vehicle segment in 2012, posting a 23% increase compared with overall industry expansion of just 13%.  At the same time, our sales of small cars were up 29% in 2012, giving us just over 10% of the small car segment, more than a full percentage point increase compared to 2010, and our best share of the U.S. small car segment since 2003. 
    
  Mid-size cars were the fastest-growing segment of the U.S. industry following small cars.  In 2012, this segment grew 21%, to represent just over 17% of U.S. industry - the segment's largest share in more than a decade.  This growth can be attributed largely to the strong launch cadence of new products in the segment during 2012.  Since many of the all-new high-volume mid-size cars were launched in the second half of 2012 - including our 2013 Fusion launched in September 2012 - this segment of industry should continue to benefit from last year's launch activity.   
    
  Small car-based utilities grew at a slightly slower rate during 2012, at 12%, with segment share of the U.S. industry flat compared with the prior year at about 13%.  This segment likely will continue to grow in the years to come, as the number of "baby boomers" moving toward "empty nester" status continues to multiply.  Our Escape small utility produced another record sales year in 2012, with more than 260,000 vehicles sold - its best sales since launch of the vehicle in 2000.  In 2012, Ford was the number-one selling brand of utility in America for the second straight year.  
    
  Although the full-size pickup segment has begun to grow, its share of total U.S. industry has remained flat over the last three years at approximately 11.5%.  We will need to see a continued and sustainable recovery in the construction industry (including new housing starts) in order to see the full-size pickup segment increase significantly as a percentage of total industry sales.  Another factor that could positively influence full-size pickup truck sales in the years to come is the unusually high average age of the truck population, which is now at 10 years.  Within the full-size pickup truck segment, our F-Series retains strong market leadership, marking its 36   th    straight year as America's best-selling pickup and its 31   st    straight year as America's best-selling vehicle.  With a total of more than 645,000 pickups sold, F-Series grabbed 39% share of the full-size pickup segment during 2012, its highest share since 2001.   
    
    6 

      ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)                                                                                                                                          

   Our strong U.S. vehicle sales in 2012 reflected our balanced portfolio of fuel-efficient vehicles, as our passenger cars, utilities, and trucks each reported gains last year.    
    
  The data above include both retail and fleet sales.  Fleet sales include sales to commercial fleet customers, daily rental car companies, and governments; in general, fleet sales tend to be less profitable than retail sales.  In 2012, fleet sales were 30% of our total sales, compared with 32% in 2011; the majority was with commercial and government customers, which are more profitable than daily rentals.  In 2012, our daily rental business was 12% of total sales, equal to a year ago and to industry average.  As the leading manufacturer of commercial vehicles in the United States, commercial buyers are increasingly choosing Ford cars and crossovers because of our improved resale values, and continue to favor Ford trucks and vans. 
    
  Canada.    Industry sales volume in Canada grew 6% in 2012.  Within that total, car sales increased by 1.7 percentage points to 45% of overall industry vehicle sales, while truck sales decreased to 55% of industry sales volume.  Our sales performance in the market earned Ford Canada the sales leadership title for the third year in a row.  In 2012, Ford Canada earned segment leadership with Mustang, Escape, Explorer, F-150, and Super Duty.  F-Series maintained truck leadership for the 47   th    straight year, achieving record sales of more than 106,000 units.   
    
  Mexico.    Industry sales volume in Mexico grew 9% during 2012.  The sales performance of our Fiesta and Ikon in the B-car segment - which is the fastest growing segment in the industry - favorably impacted our market share, although the improvement was limited by production availability.  The main contributors to share decline were discontinuation of Courier, balance-out of the EcoSport in advance of introduction of the new model, limited availability of the new Escape, and suspension of the free trade agreement with Argentina that affected import of Ranger pickups.  Our plans for near-term market share growth include continuing to pursue volume opportunities in the core B- and C-car segments and small SUVs by leveraging new product launches. 
    
  Ford South America 
    
  As indicated, we track industry sales and market share for six markets in South America - Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, and Venezuela.  Ford South America's wholesales data are more inclusive, tracking Ford-brand vehicles in nearly every market in the region.  Brazil and Argentina are our highest-volume South American markets.  In particular, Brazil's economy and demographics, with growing per capita income, low vehicle ownership rates, and a young population, have allowed its automotive market to more than double since 2002.  These favorable factors are expected to continue to contribute to growth in vehicle sales in Brazil.  The following tables show our wholesales and market share in the largest markets and in total: 

The competition in Brazil continues to intensify, as a number of automotive manufacturers bring online substantial capacity increases in the market.  The intensifying competitive environment is putting pressure on industry net pricing; in the second half of 2012, we successfully initiated efforts to leverage our One Ford plan by introducing global products (e.g., EcoSport small utility and Ranger pickup), with additional global products to come that will continue to benefit us in this market.  The competitive environment, including new trade barriers and currency risks across the region, especially in Venezuela, may limit our growth in certain countries. 
    
  Ford Europe 
    
  The automotive industry in Europe is intensely competitive, and expected to intensify further as Japanese and Korean manufacturers increase production capacity in the region and manufacturers of premium brands (e.g., BMW, Mercedes-Benz and Audi) continue to broaden product offerings.   
    7 

      ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)                                                                                                                                          

   As indicated, our industry and market share measures focus on the following traditional 19 markets in Europe:  Austria, Belgium, Britain, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland.  Ford Europe's wholesales are more inclusive, tracking Ford-brand vehicles in every market in the region, including wholesales in Turkey and Russia from our unconsolidated affiliates Ford Otosan and FordSollers.   
    
  The nearly ten percent decline in industry sales volume for the 19 markets we track in Europe in 2012 compared with 2011 largely reflected the impact of the continuing Eurozone crisis and associated issues, and was heavily affected by the economic environment in Italy and Spain. 

Ford was again the second best-selling car brand in our traditional 19 markets in 2012 - a position we have maintained for the past five years.  Our continued market strength reflects the strong momentum of our new vehicles, including the B-MAX recently launched in October 2012. 
    
  Within the 19 markets we track, Britain and Germany are our highest-volume markets.  Any change in the British or German market has a significant effect on the results of Ford Europe.  The following tables show our wholesales and market share for Britain and Germany (which are included within the traditional 19 markets data above): 

Britain.    Industry sales volume in Britain began to decline in 2008 with the global financial crisis, and since 2009 has remained in the 2.2 million - 2.3 million unit range (compared with 2.8 million units in 2007).  Britain was the only market  among our traditional 19 markets in Europe that experienced an increase in industry sales volume in 2012, increasing 3.8% compared with the prior year.  We had a slight decrease in our market share in 2012 compared with the prior year, with Ford continuing as the market share leader in Britain.  Unusually high market share in 2009 was driven by the launch of the popular Ford Ka and Fiesta small cars, coincident with the implementation of a government vehicle scrappage program designed to stimulate vehicle sales. 
    
  Germany.    With 3.4 million new vehicle registrations in 2012, Germany's industry sales volume remained almost unchanged compared with the prior year.  Germany remains the largest vehicle market in the European Union.  Our decrease in market share in 2012 compared with the prior year primarily reflected competitive market pressures, as well as our reduced participation in low-margin business such as daily rental and demonstration vehicles.  
    
  Turkey and Russia.    Although not included in results for the 19 European markets discussed above, Turkey and Russia also contribute to our Ford Europe segment results. The following tables show our wholesales and market share for the last five years: 

8 

      ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)                                                                                                                                          

Turkey.    Industry growth slowed in 2008 as a result of the global financial crisis.  Beginning in 2009, industry vehicle sales accelerated due to government incentives put in place, with significant continuous increase in 2010 and 2011.  In 2012, however, industry decreased by 10% compared with the prior year, largely driven by increased consumption and gasoline taxes.  Our wholesales were affected by this industry downturn, and we experienced a share drop compared with the prior year, although Ford remains the leading automotive company for the 11   th    consecutive year. 
    
  Russia.    Following a 50% contraction in 2009 as a result of the impact of the global financial crisis reaching Russia, industry sales volume has returned almost to pre-crisis levels, with industry sales volume of 3 million units in 2012.  Russia is the second-largest market for vehicle sales in Europe, and is expected to become the largest over the next several years.  Our sales grew by 8% in 2012, led by strong Transit sales.  As previously reported, our Russian operations became part of the new FordSollers joint venture which began operations in October 2011.  We expect this joint venture to contribute to our ability to continue to grow profitably in this rapidly expanding market.   
    
  Ford Asia Pacific Africa 
    
  Ford Asia Pacific Africa industry sales and market share data focus on our 12 major markets in the region; wholesales are more inclusive, tracking every market in the region.  Of the markets we track in this region, ASEAN, Australia, China, India, and South Africa are our principal markets.   
    
  Small cars account for 60% of Asia Pacific Africa industry sales volume, and are anticipated to continue to benefit from government policy.  We anticipate that the ongoing relaxation of import restrictions (including duty reductions) will continue to intensify competition in the region, particularly around small, ultra-affordable passenger cars.  The highly successful launch of our all-new Focus small car once again demonstrates our ability to successfully compete in key growth segments in the region.  We anticipate further success with the introduction of the all-new EcoSport small utility in 2013.  The following tables show our wholesales and market share for key markets and in total for the last five years: 

China and India are burgeoning markets that are expected to continue to experience rapid and substantial growth in the next ten years, driving new economic growth in the Asia Pacific Africa region.  Accordingly, we have increased and are planning to increase further our dealer networks and manufacturing capacity in the region.  We and our unconsolidated joint venture affiliates completed construction of two new plants in the region in the last year, announced significant expansions of existing facilities, and currently are building seven additional plants in the region - five in China and two in India - all as part of our plan to reach production capacity of 2.7 million vehicles by mid-decade.  These new state-of-the-art highly-flexible manufacturing facilities will help us reach the goal of increasing worldwide sales to about 8 million vehicles per year by mid-decade.  
    
    9 

      ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)                                                                                                                                          

   FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR 
    
  Ford Motor Credit Company LLC 
    
  Our wholly-owned subsidiary Ford Motor Credit Company LLC ("Ford Credit") offers a wide variety of automotive financing products to and through automotive dealers throughout the world.  The predominant share of Ford Credit s business consists of financing our vehicles and supporting our dealers.  Ford Credit earns its revenue primarily from: 

Payments made under retail installment sale and lease contracts that it originates and purchases; 
                
    Interest supplements and other support payments from us and our subsidiaries on special-rate financing programs; and 
                
    Payments made under wholesale and other dealer loan financing programs. 
       
  As a result of these financing activities, Ford Credit has a large portfolio of finance receivables and leases which it classifies into two segments   "consumer" and "non-consumer."  Finance receivables and leases in the consumer segment relate to products offered to individuals and to businesses that finance the acquisition of vehicles from dealers for personal and commercial use.  The financing products include retail installment sale contracts for new and used vehicles, and leases for new vehicles to retail customers, government entities, daily rental car companies, and fleet customers.  Finance receivables in the non-consumer segment relate primarily to products offered to automotive dealers, including loans to finance the purchase of vehicle inventory (i.e., wholesale financing), for improvements to dealership facilities, for working capital, and for purchase of dealership real estate.  Ford Credit also purchases receivables generated by us and our subsidiaries, primarily in connection with the sale of parts and accessories. 
    
  Ford Credit does business in the United States and Canada through regional business centers.  Outside of the United States, FCE Bank plc ("FCE") is Ford Credit's largest operation; Europe is FCE's largest market.  Within Europe, FCE's largest markets are Germany and the United Kingdom.  About 70% of FCE's finance and lease receivables are from FCE's customers and Ford dealers in Germany, the United Kingdom, and France; about 15% are from FCE's customers and Ford dealers in Italy and Spain; and about 1% are from FCE's customers and Ford dealers in Greece, Ireland, and Portugal.  FCE, through its Worldwide Trade Financing division, also provides financing to dealers in countries where typically we have no established local presence. 
    
  Ford Credit's share of retail financing for new Ford and Lincoln vehicles sold by dealers in the United States and new Ford vehicles sold by dealers in Europe, as well as its share of wholesale financing for new Ford and Lincoln vehicles acquired by dealers in the United States (excluding fleet) and new Ford vehicles acquired by dealers in Europe were: 

See Item 7 and Notes 7, 8, and 9 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of Ford Credit's receivables, credit losses, allowance for credit losses, loss-to-receivables ratios, funding sources, and funding strategies. See Item 7A for discussion of how Ford Credit manages its financial market risks. 
    
  We routinely sponsor special retail and lease incentives to dealers' customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from Ford Credit.  In order to compensate Ford Credit for the lower interest or lease rates offered to the retail customer, we pay the discounted value of the incentive directly to Ford Credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract.  These programs increase Ford Credit's financing volume and share of financing sales of our vehicles.  See Note 2 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for information about our accounting for these programs. 
    
  In November 2008, we entered into an Amended and Restated Support Agreement with Ford Credit, pursuant to which, if its managed leverage for a calendar quarter were to be higher than 11.5 to 1 (as reported in its most recent periodic report), Ford Credit could require us to make or cause to be made a capital contribution to it in an amount sufficient to have caused such managed leverage to have been 11.5 to 1.  No capital contributions have been made pursuant to this agreement.  In addition, Ford Credit has an agreement to maintain FCE's net worth in excess of $500 million; no payments have been made pursuant to that agreement. 
    10 

      ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)                                                                                                                                          

   GOVERNMENTAL STANDARDS 
    
  Many governmental standards and regulations relating to safety, fuel economy, emissions control, noise control, vehicle recycling, substances of concern, vehicle damage, and theft prevention are applicable to new motor vehicles, engines, and equipment manufactured for sale in the United States, Europe, and elsewhere.  In addition, manufacturing and other automotive assembly facilities in the United States, Europe, and elsewhere are subject to stringent standards regulating air emissions, water discharges, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances.  The most significant of the standards and regulations affecting us are discussed below: 
    
  Mobile Source Emissions Control 
    
  U.S. Requirements - Federal Emissions Standards.    The federal Clean Air Act imposes stringent limits on the amount of regulated pollutants that lawfully may be emitted by new vehicles and engines produced for sale in the United States.  The current ("Tier 2") emissions regulations promulgated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") set standards for cars and light trucks.  Tier 2 emissions standards also establish durability requirements for emissions components to 120,000 miles or 150,000 miles (depending on the specific standards to which the vehicle is certified).  In 2013, EPA is expected to propose new "Tier 3" regulations, setting more stringent motor vehicle emissions standards for future model years.   
    
  EPA also has stringent emissions standards and requirements for EPA-defined "heavy duty" vehicles and engines (generally, those vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating of 8,500 pounds to 14,000 pounds gross vehicle weight).  In order to meet the standards for heavy duty diesel trucks, Ford and most other manufacturers use selective catalytic reduction ("SCR") systems, which require periodic customer maintenance.  EPA has issued guidance calling for increasingly stringent warning systems to alert motorists to the need for maintenance of SCR systems.  Development of the necessary warning systems is a challenging process, and obtaining certification of SCR-equipped diesel trucks by EPA and the California Air Resources Board ("CARB") is particularly challenging. 
    
  In 2011, EPA issued waivers under the Clean Air Act allowing the distribution and sale of gasoline containing 15% ethanol ("E15" fuel) for use in 2001 model year and later gasoline-powered vehicles.  Virtually all of the vehicles affected by the waivers were designed to accommodate gasoline containing a maximum ethanol content of 10%.  There are concerns that extensive use of E15 in these past model-year vehicles may lead to fuel system problems and other issues.  Various petitioners, including the automotive industry, sought judicial review of the EPA waivers; the District of Columbia Circuit Court of Appeals has denied relief, and petitioners may seek review by the U.S. Supreme Court.  If EPA's waivers are allowed to stand, Ford and other automotive manufacturers may face increased warranty claims and customer complaints, as well as the possibility of consumer litigation, due to the introduction of E15 into the market. 
    
  U.S. Requirements - California and Other State Emissions Standards.    Pursuant to the Clean Air Act, California may seek a waiver from EPA to establish unique vehicle emissions control standards; each new or modified proposal requires a new waiver of preemption from EPA.  California has received a waiver from EPA to establish its own unique emissions control standards for certain regulated pollutants.  New vehicles and engines sold in California must be certified by CARB; CARB's current low-emission vehicle ("LEV II") emissions standards treat most light duty trucks the same as passenger cars, and require both types of vehicles to meet stringent new emissions requirements.  Like EPA's Tier 2 emissions standards, CARB's LEV II emissions standards present a difficult engineering challenge.  The California program includes requirements for manufacturers to produce and deliver for sale zero-emission vehicles ("ZEVs") that emit no regulated pollutants.  The current ZEV regulations allow certain advanced-technology vehicles (e.g., hybrid electric vehicles or natural gas vehicles) with extremely low tailpipe emissions, to qualify for ZEV credits.  The rules also give some ZEV credits for so-called "partial zero-emission vehicles" ("PZEVs"), which can be internal combustion engine vehicles certified to very low tailpipe emissions and zero evaporative emissions.  The current rules require increasing volumes of battery-electric and other advanced technology vehicles with each passing model year.  We plan to comply with the ZEV regulations through the sale of a variety of battery-electric vehicles, hybrid vehicles, plug-in hybrid vehicles, and PZEVs.  Our compliance plan entails significant costs, and has a variety of inherent risks, including potential component shortages that may make it difficult to produce vehicles in sufficient quantities.   
    
  The Clean Air Act also permits other states that do not meet National Ambient Air Quality Standards to adopt California's motor vehicle emissions standards no later than two years before the affected model year.  In addition to California, thirteen states, primarily located in the Northeast and Northwest, have adopted the California standards for current and/or future model years (and ten of these states also have adopted the ZEV requirements).  These states, together with California, account for more than 30% of our current U.S. light duty vehicle sales volume.  It is possible that additional states may adopt the California standards in the future.  The adoption of California standards by other states presents challenges for manufacturers, including:  1) managing fleet average emissions standards and ZEV mandate  
    11 

      ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)                                                                                                                                          

   requirements on a state-by-state basis, which presents difficulties from the standpoint of planning and distribution; 2) market acceptance of some vehicles required by the ZEV program varies from state to state, depending on weather and other factors; and 3) states adopting the California program have not adopted California's clean fuel regulations, which may impair the ability of vehicles in other states to meet California's in-use standards. 
    
  In 2012, CARB finalized revisions to its LEV and ZEV regulations.  The new "LEV III" program begins to take effect with the 2015 model year and includes more stringent tailpipe and evaporative emissions standards for light and medium duty vehicles; extended durability requirements; and changes to the certification test procedures, requiring manufacturers to certify vehicles on fuel containing 10% ethanol.  The amended ZEV regulations mandate substantial annual increases in the production and sale of battery-electric, fuel cell, and plug-in hybrid vehicles for the 2018 - 2025 model years.  By the 2025 model year, approximately 15% of a manufacturer's total California sales volume will need to be made up of such vehicles.   
    
  The LEV III regulations will require automobile manufacturers to design and develop new emissions after-treatment systems, which presents an engineering challenge.  The 2018 - 2025 model year ZEV rules pose an even greater obstacle that could have a substantial adverse effect on our sales volumes and profits.  Compliance with the ZEV mandate involves intensive planning efforts and large capital investments in order to deliver the required number of advanced-technology vehicles.  We are concerned that the market and infrastructure in California may not support the large volumes of advanced-technology vehicles that manufacturers will be required to produce, particularly in the 2018 - 2025 model years.  We also are concerned about potential enforcement of the ZEV mandate in other states that have adopted California's ZEV program, where the existence of a market for such vehicles is even less certain.  CARB conducts periodic reviews of its upcoming ZEV requirements, taking into account factors such as technology developments and market acceptance.  Ford and the industry will be active participants in such reviews, with the goal of ensuring that ZEV requirements are feasible and not excessively burdensome.   
    
  European Requirements.    European Union ("EU") directives and related legislation limit the amount of regulated pollutants that may be emitted by new motor vehicles and engines sold in the EU.  Stringent new "Stage V" emissions standards took effect for vehicle registrations starting in January 2011; Stage VI requirements will apply from September 2014, with a second phase beginning in September 2017.  Stage V particulate standards drove the deployment of particulate filters across diesels, and Stage VI further tightens the standard for oxides of nitrogen.  This will drive the need for additional diesel exhaust after-treatment, which will add cost and potentially impact the diesel CO   2    advantage.  These technology requirements add cost and further erode the fuel economy cost/benefit advantage of diesel vehicles.  The additional requirements for the second phase of Stage VI will further increase stringency of particle emissions for direct injection gasoline vehicles, and apply more demanding on-board diagnostic thresholds for all vehicles.  There are some additional test procedures still in development for application as part of the second phase of Stage VI.   
    
  Vehicles equipped with SCR systems require a driver inducement and warning system for maintenance or repair.  The Stage V/VI emission legislation also mandated internet provision of all repair information (not just emissions-related), and provision of information to diagnostic tool manufacturers. 
    
  Other National Requirements.    Many countries, in an effort to address air quality concerns, are adopting previous versions of European or United Nations Economic Commission for Europe ("UN-ECE") mobile source emissions regulations.  Some countries have adopted more advanced regulations based on the most recent version of European or U.S. regulations; for example, China plans to adopt the most recent European standards, to be implemented starting from 2013 in large cities.  Korea and Taiwan have adopted very stringent U.S.-based standards for gasoline vehicles, and European-based standards for diesel vehicles.  Although these countries have adopted regulations based UN-ECE or U.S. standards, there may be some unique testing provisions that require emission-control systems to be redesigned for these markets.   
    
  Furthermore, not all countries have adopted appropriate fuel quality standards to accompany the stringent emissions standards adopted.  This could lead to compliance problems, particularly if on-board diagnostic or in-use surveillance requirements are implemented.  Japan has unique standards and test procedures, which may require unique emissions control systems be designed for the Japanese market.  Canadian criteria emissions regulations are aligned with U.S. Tier 2 requirements discussed above; a new examination of mobile source emissions has commenced, and it is expected that any new regulation will align standards with the current U.S. regulations. 
    
  In South America, Brazil, Argentina, and Chile have introduced more stringent emissions standards.  Brazil approved European Stage V emissions and on-board diagnostic standards for heavy trucks starting in 2012; more stringent light vehicle limits come into effect starting in 2012.  Argentina also will apply Stage V standards beginning in 2014 (for new vehicle homologations) and 2016 (for new vehicle registrations).  Chile approved a plan to introduce more stringent  
    12 

      ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)                                                                                                                                          

   emission standards (i.e., European Stage IV and V or corresponding U.S. emissions standards) nationwide for light and medium duty vehicles, and progressive alignment with the Metropolitan Region (i.e., the capital city Santiago and surrounding area) by September 2014.  Heavy duty vehicles will be required to meet Stage V (or corresponding U.S. emissions standards) by October 2014. 
    
  Motor Vehicle Fuel Economy 
    
  In addition to our own push for class-leading fuel efficiency for our vehicle line, we also face ever-increasing expectations from regulators, public interest groups, and consumers for improvements in motor vehicle fuel economy, for a variety of reasons including energy security and reduced GHG emissions.  Our ability to comply with a given set of fuel economy standards (including GHG emissions standards, which are functionally equivalent to fuel economy standards) depends on a variety of factors, including:  1) prevailing economic conditions, including fluctuations in fuel prices; 2) alignment of standards with actual consumer demand for vehicles; and 3) adequate lead time to make necessary product changes.  Consumer demand for vehicles tends to fluctuate based on a variety of external factors.  Consumers are more likely to pay for vehicles with fuel-efficient technologies (such as hybrid-electric vehicles) when the economy is robust, and when fuel prices are relatively high.  When the economy is in recession and/or fuel prices are relatively low, many consumers may put off new vehicle purchases altogether, and among those who do purchase vehicles, demand for higher-cost fuel technologies is not likely to be strong.  If consumers demand vehicles that are relatively large and/or high-performance, while regulatory standards require production of vehicles that are smaller and more economical, the mismatch of supply and demand would have an adverse effect on both regulatory compliance and our profitability.  Moreover, if regulatory requirements call for rapid, substantial increases in fleet average fuel economy (or decreases in fleet average GHG emissions), we may not have adequate resources and time to make major product changes across most or all of our vehicle fleet (assuming the necessary technology can be developed). 
    
  U.S. Requirements - Light Duty Vehicles  .  Federal law requires that light duty vehicles meet minimum corporate average fuel economy ("CAFE") standards set by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration ("NHTSA").  A manufacturer is subject to potentially substantial civil penalties if it fails to meet the CAFE standard in any model year, after taking into account all available credits for the preceding three model years and expected credits for the five succeeding model years.  The law requires NHTSA to promulgate and enforce separate CAFE standards applicable to each manufacturer's fleet of domestic passenger cars, imported passenger cars, and light trucks, respectively.   
    
  California also has asserted the right to regulate motor vehicle GHG emissions, and a 2007 U.S. Supreme Court decision paved the way for EPA to regulate motor vehicle GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act.  The potential for three sets of overlapping and conflicting regulations led to the establishment of the federal "One National Program," pursuant to which EPA and NHTSA have promulgated regulations establishing a harmonized national program of CAFE and GHG regulations for light duty vehicles for the 2012 - 2016 model years.  The 2012 - 2016 federal GHG and fuel economy standards are very challenging.  They require new light duty vehicles to ramp up to an industry average fuel economy of approximately 35.5 miles per gallon ("mpg") by the 2016 model year, which amounts to the steepest rate of increase in fuel economy standards since the inception of the CAFE program.  CARB has amended its regulations to provide that manufacturers who comply with One National Program regulations will be deemed to comply with California GHG regulations. 
    
  We believe that we will be able to comply with the harmonized federal CAFE/GHG standards for the 2012 - 2016 model years, as a result of aggressive actions to improve fuel economy that we built into our cycle plan, and through a variety of flexible compliance mechanisms.  In contrast, we had projected that we would be unable to comply with the state GHG standards that had been in place for the 2012 - 2016 period without undertaking costly product restrictions in some states.  Key differences that enable us to project compliance with the national program include:  1) One National Program standards, although very stringent, do not ramp up as steeply as the state standards they are replacing; and 2) One National Program allows us to determine compliance based on nationwide sales rather than state-by-state sales.  The ability to average across the nation eliminates state-to-state sales variability and is a critical element for us and for the automotive industry.  The 2012-2016 model year One National Program rules currently are being challenged in federal court by entities concerned about the ramifications of these rules on stationary source regulation.  The automotive industry has intervened in the litigation with the goal of preventing adverse changes to the existing One National Program.   
    
  In 2012, EPA and NHTSA jointly promulgated regulations extending the One National Program framework through the 2025 model year.  The new rules require manufacturers to achieve, across the industry, a light duty fleet average fuel economy of approximately 45 mpg by the 2021 model year, and approximately 54.5 mpg by the 2025 model year, assuming all of the CO   2    emissions reductions are achieved through the deployment of fuel economy technology.  This represents a reduction of roughly 5% per year in CO   2    emissions from passenger cars for the 2017 - 2025 model years.   
    13 

      ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)                                                                                                                                          

   For light trucks, the proposed standards represent a reduction in CO   2    emissions of about 3.5% per year for model years 2017 - 2021, and about 5% per year for model years 2022 - 2025.   
    
  It is important to note that EPA's 2022 - 2025 GHG standards are final rules; in contrast, NHTSA's 2022 - 2025 CAFE standards are conditional because, by statute, NHTSA may only set CAFE standards for up to five model years at a time.  Each manufacturer's specific task would depend on the mix of vehicles it sells.  The rules include the opportunity for manufacturers to earn credits for technologies that achieve real-world CO   2    reductions, and fuel economy improvements that are not captured by EPA fuel economy test procedures.  Manufacturers also can earn credits for GHG reductions not specifically tied to fuel economy, such as improvements in air conditioning systems.  The rules provide for a midterm evaluation process under which, by 2018, EPA will re-evaluate its standards for model years 2022 - 2025 in order to ensure that those standards are feasible and optimal in light of intervening events.  In parallel, NHTSA will undertake a process to promulgate final CAFE standards for those model years.  CARB has modified its GHG regulations to provide that compliance with the federal program satisfies compliance with California's requirements for the 2017 - 2025 model years.  As with the 2012 - 2016 rules, the 2017 - 2025 rules have been challenged in federal court by entities whose primary concern appears to be the ramifications of the vehicle rules on stationary source regulation.  The automotive industry has intervened in the litigation with the goal of avoiding adverse changes to the One National Program rules. 
    
  While the new rules are challenging, we believe they are feasible in light of our product plans and projected market conditions for the time period covered by our product planning process.  We also believe the new rules are preferable to engaging in protracted disputes with California and other states that use the California standards over the right to enforce state-specific GHG standards.   
    
  Ford's ability to comply with the 2022 - 2025 model year standards remains unclear because of the many unknowns regarding technology development, market conditions, and other factors so far into the future.  We intend to be an active participant in the midterm evaluation process for these standards.  If the agencies seek to impose and enforce extreme fuel economy or GHG standards in spite of unfavorable market conditions or inadequate technology development, we likely would be forced to take various actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales volume and profits.  Such actions likely would include restricting offerings of selected engines and popular options; increasing market support programs for our most fuel-efficient cars and light trucks; and ultimately curtailing the production and sale of certain vehicles such as high-performance cars, utilities, and/or full-size light trucks, in order to maintain compliance.   
    
  U.S. Requirements - Heavy Duty Vehicles.    In 2011, EPA and NHTSA promulgated final regulations imposing, for the first time, GHG and fuel economy standards on heavy duty vehicles (generally, vehicles over 8,500 pounds gross vehicle weight rating).  In our case, the standards primarily affect our heavy duty pickup trucks and vans, plus vocational vehicles such as shuttle buses and delivery trucks.  These standards will be challenging, but we believe we will be able to comply.  EPA and NHTSA are expected to issue a new round of standards for these vehicles covering the 2019 model year and beyond; as the standards increase in stringency, it may become more difficult to comply while continuing to offer a full lineup of heavy duty trucks.  The 2014 - 2018 heavy duty GHG rules are being challenged in federal court by entities other than truck and engine manufacturers.  Remand or rejection by the court could have a substantial adverse impact on our future production and sale of heavy duty vehicles, depending on the court's specific order and agencies' response.     
    
  European Requirements.    In December 2008, the EU approved regulation of passenger car CO   2    emissions beginning in 2012 which limits the industry fleet average to a maximum of 130 grams per kilometer ("g/km"), using a sliding scale based on vehicle weight.  This regulation provides different targets for each manufacturer based on the respective average vehicle weight for its fleet of vehicles.  Limited credits are available for CO   2    off-cycle actions ("eco-innovations"), certain alternative fuels, and vehicles with CO   2    emissions below 50 g/km.  A penalty system will apply for manufacturers failing to meet targets, with fees ranging from  5 to  95 per vehicle per g/km shortfall in the years 2012 - 2018, and  95 per g/km shortfall beginning in 2019.  Manufacturers will be permitted to use a pooling agreement between wholly-owned brands to share the burden.  Further pooling agreements between different manufacturers also are possible, although it is not clear that these will be of much practical benefit under the regulations.  For 2020, an industry target of 95 g/km has been set.  This target will be further detailed in a review in 2013.  Other non-EU European countries are likely to follow with similar regulations.  For example, Switzerland has introduced similar rules, which began phasing-in starting in July 2012 with the same targets (which likely also will include a 2020 target of 95 g/km), although the industry average emission target is significantly higher.  We face the risk of advance premium payment requirements if, for example, unexpected market fluctuation within a quarter negatively impact our average fleet performance. 
    
  In separate legislation, so-called "complementary measures" have been mandated (for example, tire-related and gearshift indicator requirements), and more mandates are expected.  These include requirements related to fuel economy indicators, and more-efficient low-CO   2    mobile air conditioning systems.  The EU Commission, Council and Parliament have approved a target for commercial light duty vehicles to be at an industry average of 175 g/km (with phase-in from  
    14 

      ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)                                                                                                                                          

   2014 - 2017), and 147 g/km in 2020; it is likely that other European countries, like Switzerland, will implement similar rules but under even more difficult conditions.  This regulation also provides different targets for each manufacturer based on its respective average vehicle weight in its fleet of vehicles.  The final mass and CO   2    requirements for so-called "multi-stage vehicles" (e.g., our Transit chassis cabs) are fully allocated to the base manufacturer (e.g., Ford) so that the base manufacturer is fully responsible for the CO   2    performance of the final up-fitted vehicles.  The EU proposal also includes a penalty system, "super-credits" for vehicles below 50 g/km, and limited credits for CO   2    off-cycle eco-innovations, pooling, etc., similar to the passenger car CO   2    regulation. 
    
  Some European countries have implemented or are considering other initiatives for reducing CO   2    vehicle emissions, including fiscal measures and CO   2    labeling.  For example, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Spain, Portugal, and the Netherlands, among others, have introduced taxation based on CO   2    emissions.  The EU CO   2    requirements are likely to trigger further measures.  To limit GHG emissions, the EU directive on mobile air conditioning currently requires the replacement of the current refrigerant with a lower "global warming potential" refrigerant for new vehicle types, and for all newly registered vehicles starting in January 2017.  A refrigerant change adds considerable costs along the whole value chain. 
    
  Other National Requirements.    The Canadian federal government has regulated vehicle GHG emissions under the Canadian Environmental Protection Act, beginning with the 2011 model year.  The standards track the new U.S. CAFE standards for the 2011 model year and U.S. EPA GHG regulations for the 2012 - 2016 model years.  The Canadian federal government now has published a draft regulation which maintains alignment with U.S. EPA vehicle GHG standards for the 2017 - 2025 model years.  The final regulation for 2014 - 2018 heavy duty vehicles is expected in February 2013.  In December 2009, Quebec also enacted province-specific regulations setting fleet average GHG standards for the 2010 - 2016 model years effective January 2010.  Now that the Canadian federal regulation is in place, the Quebec government has amended the Quebec regulation to recognize equivalency with the federal standards; reporting of Quebec fleet performance still is required.   
    
  Mexico also is in the process of adopting fuel economy/CO   2    standards based on the U.S. One National Program framework, to take effect in 2014. 
    
  Many Asia Pacific countries (such as Australia, China, Japan, India, South Korea, Taiwan, and Vietnam) are also developing or enforcing fuel efficiency or labeling targets. For example, Japan has fuel efficiency targets for 2015 and is preparing to promulgate more stringent 2020 targets, with incentives for early adoption.  China has been developing Stage III and Stage IV fuel economy targets for implementation for 2012 - 2015 and 2016 - 2020, respectively.  All of these fuel efficiency targets will impact the cost of vehicle technology in the future. 
    
  In South America, Brazil introduced a voluntary vehicle energy-efficiency labeling program, indicating fuel consumption rates for light duty vehicles with a spark ignition engine.  While the program is voluntary, Brazil also published a new automotive regime which requires participation in the fuel economy labeling program and a minimum 12% improvement in industry-wide fuel efficiency for 2017 light duty vehicles with a spark ignition engine in order to qualify for industrialized products tax reduction for customers.  Additional tax reductions are available if further fuel efficiency improvements are achieved.  Chile introduced requirements for fuel consumption and CO   2    emissions levels of light duty vehicles to be posted at sales locations and in owner manuals beginning in February 2013.  In general, fuel efficiency targets may impact the cost of technology of our models in the future. 
    
  Motor Vehicle Safety 
    
  U.S. Requirements.    The National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 (the "Safety Act") regulates vehicles and vehicle equipment in two primary ways.  First, the Safety Act prohibits the sale in the United States of any new vehicle or equipment that does not conform to applicable vehicle safety standards established by NHTSA.  Meeting or exceeding many safety standards is costly, in part because the standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emissions and fuel economy standards.  Second, the Safety Act requires that defects related to motor vehicle safety be remedied through safety recall campaigns.  A manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard.  Should we or NHTSA determine that either a safety defect or noncompliance exists with respect to any of our vehicles, the cost of such recall campaigns could be substantial. 
    
  Other National Requirements.    The EU and many countries around the world have established vehicle safety standards and regulations, and are likely to adopt additional or more stringent requirements in the future.  The European General Safety Regulation introduced UN-ECE regulations, which will be required for the European Type Approval process.  EU regulators also are focusing on active safety features such as lane departure warning systems, electronic stability control, and automatic brake assist.  These technologies have been implemented in Europe with final regulation  
    15 

      ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)                                                                                                                                          

   and implementing measures having become available in late 2011.  Globally, governments generally have been adopting UN-ECE based regulations with minor variations to address local concerns.  Any difference between North American and UN-ECE based regulations can add complexity and costs to the development of global platform vehicles, and we continue to support efforts to harmonize regulations to reduce vehicle design complexity while providing a common level of safety performance; several recently launched bilateral negotiations on free trade can potentially contribute to this goal.  New recall requirements in Asia Pacific Africa also may add substantial costs and complexity to our global recall practice. 
    
  Pollution Control Costs 
    
  During the period 2013 through 2017, we expect to spend about $125 million on our facilities in the Americas and Europe to comply with stationary source air and water pollution and hazardous waste control standards that are now in effect or are scheduled to come into effect during this period.  Of this total, we currently estimate we will spend between $25 million and $30 million in each of 2013 and 2014.  Specific environmental expenses are difficult to isolate because expenditures may be made for more than one purpose, making precise classification difficult.   
    
    EMPLOYMENT DATA 
    
  The approximate number of individuals employed by us and entities that we consolidated as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 was as follows (in thousands): 

The year-over-year increase in employment primarily reflects increases in North America and Asia Pacific Africa to support increased production, partially offset by the initiation of personnel-reduction programs in Europe.  
    
  Substantially all of the hourly employees in our Automotive operations are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements.  In the United States, approximately 99% of these unionized hourly employees in our Automotive sector are represented by the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America ("UAW" or "United Auto Workers").  Approximately two percent of our U.S. salaried employees are represented by unions.  Most hourly employees and many non-management salaried employees of our subsidiaries outside of the United States also are represented by unions. 
    
  In 2011, we entered into a four-year collective bargaining agreement with the UAW.  The agreement covers approximately 41,000 employees, and maintains our progress on improving competitiveness in the United States.  Excluding profit-sharing, compensation-related terms - including lump-sum payments (in lieu of general wage increases and cost of living increases) and continuation of an entry-level wage structure - are expected to increase U.S. hourly labor costs by less than 1% annually over the four-year contract period.  We also expect this increase will be more than offset by more flexible work rules that will allow us to increase manufacturing utilization and efficiency.   
    
  In 2012, we negotiated new collective bargaining agreements with labor unions in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Mexico, Romania, Taiwan, and Turkey. 
    
  In 2013, we will negotiate full agreements with labor unions in Brazil, Italy, Mexico, New Zealand, Thailand, South Africa, and Venezuela.  In addition, wage-only discussions will happen in numerous other locations across all regions. 
    
    ENGINEERING, RESEARCH, AND DEVELOPMENT 
    
  We engage in engineering, research, and development primarily to improve the performance (including fuel efficiency), safety, and customer satisfaction of our products, and to develop new products.  Engineering, research, and development expenses for 2012, 2011, and 2010 were $5.5 billion, $5.3 billion, and $5 billion, respectively.   
    16 

ITEM 1A.   Risk Factors. 
    
    We have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us: 
    
  Decline in industry sales volume, particularly in the United States or Europe, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors.    In the fall of 2008, the global economy entered a financial crisis and severe recession, putting significant pressure on both Ford and the automotive industry generally.  These economic conditions dramatically reduced automotive industry sales volume in the United States and Europe, in particular, and began to slow growth in other markets around the world.  U.S. automotive industry sales volume declined from 16.5 million units in 2007 to 13.5 million units in 2008 and 10.6 million units in 2009, before rebounding slightly to 11.8 million units in 2010 and growing to 13 million units in 2011 and 14.8 million units in 2012.  For the 19 markets we track in Europe, automotive industry sales volume declined from 18 million units in 2007 to 16.6 million units in 2008, 15.9 million units in 2009, 15.3 million units in 2010 and 2011, and 14 million units in 2012, with further decline likely in 2013. 
    
  Because we, like other manufacturers, have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, relatively small changes in industry sales volume can have a substantial effect on our cash flow and profitability.  If industry vehicle sales were to decline to levels significantly below our planning assumption, particularly in the United States or Europe, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors, our financial condition and results of operations would be substantially adversely affected.  For discussion of economic trends, see the "Overview" section of Item 7. 
    
  Decline in Ford's market share or failure to achieve growth.    To maintain competitive economies of scale and grow our global market share, we must grow our market share in fast-growing newly-developed and emerging markets, particularly in Asia Pacific Africa, as well as maintain or grow market share in mature markets.  Our market share in certain growing markets, such as China, is substantially lower than it is in our mature markets.  A significant decline in our market share in mature markets or failure to achieve growth in newly-developing or emerging markets, whether due to capacity constraints, competitive pressures, protectionist trade policies, or other factors, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
    
  Lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of Ford's new or existing products.    Although we conduct extensive market research before launching new or refreshed vehicles, many factors both within and outside our control affect the success of new or existing products in the marketplace.  Offering highly desirable vehicles that customers want and value can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand, but vehicles that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value, fuel efficiency, or other attributes) can exacerbate these risks.  For example, if a new model were to experience quality issues at the time of launch, the vehicle's perceived quality could be affected even after the issues had been corrected, resulting in lower sales volumes, market share, and profitability.  In addition, with increased consumer interconnectedness through the internet and other media, mere allegations relating to quality, safety, fuel efficiency, corporate social responsibility, or other key attributes can negatively impact market acceptance, even where such allegations prove to be inaccurate or unfounded.    
    
  Market shift away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles beyond Ford's current planning assumption, particularly in the United States.    A shift in consumer preferences away from larger, more profitable vehicles at levels beyond our current planning assumption could result in an immediate and substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  For example, when gasoline prices in the United States spiked to more than $4.00 per gallon in 2008 and the construction industry suddenly slowed, consumer preferences quickly and dramatically shifted away from larger, more profitable vehicles and into smaller vehicles.  We estimate that shifting consumer preferences across all vehicle segments adversely impacted our Automotive operating pre-tax earnings and cash flow in 2008 by about $1.3 billion.  Although we now have a more balanced portfolio of small, medium, and large, cars, utilities, and trucks that generally are more fuel efficient and contribute higher margins than in 2008, as well as a lower cost structure, a shift in consumer preferences away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles at levels greater than our current planning assumption - whether because of spiking fuel prices, a decline in the construction industry, government actions or incentives, or other reasons - still could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
    
  An increase in or continued volatility of fuel prices, or reduced availability of fuel  .    An increase in fuel prices, continued price volatility, or reduced availability of fuel, particularly in the United States, could result in further weakening of demand for relatively more-profitable large cars, utilities, and trucks, while increasing demand for relatively less-profitable small vehicles.  Continuation or acceleration of such a trend beyond our current planning assumption, or volatility in demand across segments, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
    
    17 

    Item 1A. Risk Factors (Continued)                                                                         

   Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors.    The global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand.  According to the January 2013 report issued by IHS Automotive, the global automotive industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of 26 million units in 2012.  Industry overcapacity has resulted in many manufacturers offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain and grow market share; these incentives historically have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates, and other incentives.  As a result, we are not necessarily able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives, commodity or other cost increases, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations.  Continuation of or increased excess capacity could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
    
  Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates.    As a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market and asset risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates.  These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors.  We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce potentially adverse effects on our business.  Nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged.  In addition, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be able to address such changes even if foreseeable.  As a result, substantial unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, or interest rates could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  See "Overview" to Item 7 and Item 7A for additional discussion of currency, commodity price, and interest rate risks. 
    
  Adverse effects resulting from economic, geopolitical, or other events.      With the increasing interconnectedness of global economic and financial systems, a financial crisis, natural disaster, geopolitical crisis, or other significant event in one area of the world can have an immediate and devastating impact on markets around the world.  For example, the financial crisis that began in the United States in 2008 quickly spread to other markets; natural disasters in Japan and Thailand during 2011 caused production interruptions and delays not just in Asia Pacific but other regions around the world; and episodes of increased geopolitical tensions or acts of terrorism in the Middle East or elsewhere have at times caused adverse reactions that may spread to economies around the globe.   
    
  In 2013, concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain of the countries that have adopted the euro currency ("euro area countries") and the ability of these countries to meet future financial obligations, as well as concerns regarding the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances of individual euro area countries.  If a country within the euro area were to default on its debt or withdraw from the euro currency, or - in a more extreme circumstance - the euro currency were to be dissolved entirely, the impact on markets around the world, and on Ford's global business, could be immediate and significant.  Such a scenario - or the perception that such a development is imminent - could adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated assets and obligations.  In addition, such a development could cause financial and capital markets within and outside Europe to constrict, thereby negatively impacting our ability to finance our business, and also could cause a substantial dip in consumer confidence and spending that could negatively impact sales of vehicles.  Any one of these impacts could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   
    
  In addition, we are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of newly-developed and emerging markets.  These investments may expose us to heightened risks of economic, geopolitical, or other events, including governmental takeover (i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities or intellectual property, restrictive exchange controls, disruption of operations as a result of systemic political or economic instability, outbreak of war or expansion of hostilities, and acts of terrorism, each of which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
    
  Economic distress of suppliers that may require Ford to provide substantial financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials and could increase costs, affect liquidity, or cause production constraints or disruptions.   The automotive industry supply base experienced increased economic distress due to the sudden and substantial drop in industry sales volumes beginning in 2008.  Dramatically lower industry sales volume made existing debt obligations and fixed cost levels difficult for many suppliers to manage, increasing pressure on the supply base.  As a result, suppliers not only were less willing to reduce prices, but some requested direct or indirect price increases as well as new and shorter payment terms.  At times, we have had to provide financial assistance to key suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted supply of materials and components.  In addition, where suppliers have exited certain lines of business or closed facilities due to the economic downturn or other reasons, we generally experience additional costs associated with transitioning to new suppliers.  Each of these factors could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
    18 

    Item 1A. Risk Factors (Continued)                                                                         

   Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other limitations on production (whether as a result of labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, production constraints or difficulties, or other factors).    A work stoppage or other limitation on production could occur at Ford or supplier facilities for any number of reasons, including as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements, or as a result of supplier financial distress or other production constraints or difficulties, or for other reasons.  Recent examples of situations that have affected industry production to varying degrees include: supplier financial distress due to reduced production volumes during the economic downturn in 2008 - 2009; capacity constraints as suppliers that restructured or downsized during the downturn work to satisfy growing industry volumes; short-term constraints on production as consumer preferences shift more fluidly across vehicle segments and features; and the impact on certain suppliers of natural disasters during 2011.  As indicated, a work stoppage or other limitations on production at Ford or supplier facilities for any reason (including but not limited to labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, or production constraints or difficulties) could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
    
  Single-source supply of components or materials.    Many components used in our vehicles are available only from a single supplier and cannot be re-sourced quickly or inexpensively to another supplier (due to long lead times, new contractual commitments that may be required by another supplier before ramping up to provide the components or materials, etc.).  In addition to the general risks described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated in the case of single-source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims, or other terms relating to a component.  
    
  Labor or other constraints on Ford's ability to maintain competitive cost structure.    Substantially all of the hourly employees in our Automotive operations in the United States and Canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements.  We negotiated a four-year agreement with the UAW in 2011, and a new four-year agreement with the Canadian Auto Workers Union in 2012.  Although we have negotiated transformational agreements in recent years, these agreements provide guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout the contract term and some degree of employment security, subject to certain conditions.  As a practical matter, these agreements may restrict our ability to close plants and divest businesses.      A substantial number of our employees in other regions are represented by unions or government councils, and legislation or custom promoting retention of manufacturing or other employment in the state, country, or region may constrain as a practical matter our ability to sell or close manufacturing or other facilities.  For example, in October 2012 we announced our European transformation plan to address structural industry overcapacity.  As announced, we intend to close three European manufacturing facilities, which would affect approximately 6,200 positions.  Our intent to close our assembly plant in Genk, Belgium is subject to an information and consultation process with employee representatives, which we have commenced. 
    
  Substantial pension and postretirement health care and life insurance liabilities impairing liquidity or financial condition.    We have qualified defined benefit retirement plans in the United States that cover our hourly and salaried employees.  We also provide pension benefits to non-U.S. employees and retirees, primarily in Europe.  In addition, we and certain of our subsidiaries sponsor plans to provide other postretirement benefits ("OPEB") for retired employees (primarily health care and life insurance benefits).  See Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information about these plans.  These benefit plans impose significant liabilities on us that are not fully funded and will require additional cash contributions, which could impair our liquidity. 
    
  Our U.S. defined benefit pension plans are subject to Title IV of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA").  Under Title IV of ERISA, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") has the authority under certain circumstances or upon the occurrence of certain events to terminate an underfunded pension plan.  One such circumstance is the occurrence of an event that unreasonably increases the risk of unreasonably large losses to the PBGC.  Although we believe it is unlikely that the PBGC would terminate any of our plans, in the event that our U.S. pension plans were terminated at a time when the liabilities of the plans exceeded the assets of the plans we would incur a liability to the PBGC that could be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding. 
    
  At December 31, 2012, our U.S. and worldwide (including U.S.) defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by a total of $9.7 billion and $18.7 billion, respectively.  If our cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to fund our pension or OPEB obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, suspend dividend payments, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness.  
    
  Worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns).    The measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present value of projected future payments to all participants.  We use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount  
    19 

    Item 1A. Risk Factors (Continued)                                                                         

   rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates).  To the extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, there could be a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  For discussion of our assumptions, see "Critical Accounting Estimates" in Item 7 and Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
    
  Restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law "ownership change."    Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code restricts the ability of a corporation that undergoes an ownership change to use its tax attributes, including net operating losses and tax credits ("Tax Attributes").  At December 31, 2012 we had Tax Attributes that would offset $14.7 billion of taxable income.  For these purposes, an ownership change occurs if 5 percent shareholders of an issuer's outstanding common stock, collectively, increase their ownership percentage by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period.  In 2012, we renewed for an additional three-year period our tax benefit preservation plan (the "Plan") to reduce the risk of an ownership change under Section 382.  Under the Plan, shares held by any person who acquires, without the approval of our Board of Directors, beneficial ownership of 4.99% or more of our outstanding Common Stock could be subject to significant dilution.  We intend to seek shareholder approval of the renewal at our annual meeting in May 2013. 
    
  The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs.    Meeting or exceeding many government-mandated safety standards is costly and often technologically challenging, especially where standards may conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet government-mandated emissions and fuel-economy standards.  Government safety standards also require manufacturers to remedy defects related to vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard.  Should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety or other defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles prior to the start of production, the launch of such vehicle could be delayed until such defect is remedied.  The costs associated with any protracted delay in new model launches necessary to remedy such defects, or the cost of recall campaigns or warranty costs to remedy such defects in vehicles that have been sold, could be substantial.   
    
  Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy, or other regulations resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions.    The worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial amount of government regulation, which often differs by state, region, and country.  Government regulation has arisen, and proposals for additional regulation are advanced, primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about the possibility of global climate change and its impact), vehicle safety, and energy independence.  In addition, many governments regulate local product content and/or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers, and influencing the balance of payments.   
    
  In recent years, we have made significant changes to our product cycle plan to improve the overall fuel economy of vehicles we produce, thereby reducing their GHG emissions.  There are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given timeframe, however, primarily relating to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies and changes in vehicle mix, willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, the widespread availability (or lack thereof) of supporting infrastructure for new technologies, and the human, engineering, and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time.  The cost to comply with existing government regulations is substantial, and future, additional regulations could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  For more discussion of the impact of such standards on our global business, see the "Governmental Standards" discussion in "Item 1. Business" ("Item 1") above.  In addition to governmental regulations, a number of influential organizations conduct public domain testing.  Even as we continue to evolve our product line, aggressive changes in public domain testing requirements could have a negative influence on future sales. 
    
  Unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise.    We spend substantial resources ensuring that we comply with governmental safety regulations, mobile and stationary source emissions regulations, and other standards.  Compliance with governmental standards, however, does not necessarily prevent individual or class actions, which can entail significant cost and risk.  In certain circumstances, courts may permit tort claims even where our vehicles comply with federal and/or other applicable law.  Furthermore, simply responding to actual or threatened litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards, whether related to our products or business or commercial relationships, may require significant expenditures of time and other resources.  Litigation also is inherently uncertain, and we could experience significant adverse results.  In addition, adverse publicity surrounding an allegation may cause significant reputational harm that could have a significant adverse effect on our sales. 
    20 

    Item 1A. Risk Factors (Continued)                                                                         

   A change in requirements under long-term supply arrangements committing Ford to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take-or-pay" contracts).    We have entered into a number of long-term supply contracts that require us to purchase a fixed quantity of parts to be used in the production of our vehicles.  If our need for any of these parts were to lessen, we could still be required to purchase a specified quantity of the part or pay a minimum amount to the seller pursuant to the take-or-pay contract, which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 
    
  Adverse effects on results from a decrease in or cessation or clawback of government incentives related to investments.    We receive economic benefits from national, state, and local governments in various regions of the world in the form of incentives designed to encourage manufacturers to establish, maintain, or increase investment, workforce, or production.  These incentives may take various forms, including grants, loan subsidies, and tax abatements or credits.  The impact of these incentives can be significant in a particular market during a reporting period.  For example, most of our manufacturing facilities in South America are located in Brazil, where the state or federal governments have historically offered, and continue to offer, significant incentives to manufacturers to encourage capital investment, increase manufacturing production, and create jobs.  As a result, the performance of our South American operations has been impacted favorably by government incentives to a substantial extent as we have increased our investment and manufacturing presence in Brazil, and we expect this favorable impact to continue for the next several years.  A decrease in, expiration without renewal of, or other cessation or clawback of government incentives for any of our business units, as a result of administrative decision or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our ability to fund new investments.  See Note 2 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for discussion of our accounting for government incentives, and "Item 3. Legal Proceedings" for discussion of administrative tax proceedings in Brazil. 
    
  Inherent limitations of internal controls impacting financial statements and safeguarding of assets.    Our internal control over financial reporting and our operating internal controls may not prevent or detect misstatements or loss of assets because of  inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud.  Effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement accuracy and safeguarding of assets. 
    
  Cybersecurity risks to operational systems, security systems, or infrastructure owned by Ford, Ford Credit, or a third-party vendor or supplier.    Interruptions, outages, or breaches of operational systems (including business, financial, accounting, data processing, in-vehicle, or manufacturing processes), security systems, or infrastructure, as a result of cyber incidents, could materially disrupt critical operations, disclose confidential intellectual property, and/or give rise to allegations of or result in a breach of data privacy or other regulations within or outside the United States.    
    
  Failure of financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit and liquidity facilities.    Under our  Credit Agreement dated December 15, 2006, as amended and restated on November 24, 2009 and as further amended ("Credit Agreement"), we are able to borrow, repay, and then re-borrow up to $9.6 billion until the facilities thereunder terminate, largely in 2015.  If the financial institutions that provide these or other committed credit facilities were to default on their obligation to fund the commitments, these facilities would not be available to us, which could substantially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.  For discussion of our Credit Agreement, see "Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 7 and Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
    
  Inability of Ford Credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts, due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors.     Ford Credit's ability to obtain funding under its committed asset-backed liquidity programs and certain other asset-backed securitization transactions is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs, as well as Ford Credit's ability to obtain appropriate credit ratings and, for certain committed programs, derivatives to manage the interest rate risk.  Over time, and particularly in the event of any credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, Ford Credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates because of funding constraints.  In addition, Ford Credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates if there were a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers or Ford Credit was unable to obtain derivatives to manage the interest rate risk associated with its securitization transactions.  A significant reduction in the amount of receivables Ford Credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing profits and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of Ford vehicles. 
    
    21 

    Item 1A. Risk Factors (Continued)                                                                         

   Higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles.      Credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer's or dealer's failure to make payments according to contract terms.  Credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability, and used car prices) has a significant impact on Ford Credit's business.  The level of credit losses Ford Credit may experience could exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, Ford Credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from Ford) and return volumes for the vehicles it leases.  Actual proceeds realized by Ford Credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which would reduce the profitability of the lease transaction.  Among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, and quality or perceived quality, safety, fuel efficiency, or reliability of the vehicles.  Actual return volumes may be higher than expected and can be influenced by contractual lease-end values relative to auction values, marketing programs for new vehicles, and general economic conditions.  Each of these factors, alone or in combination, has the potential to adversely affect Ford Credit's profitability if actual results were to differ significantly from Ford Credit's projections.  See "Critical Accounting Estimates" in Item 7 for additional discussion.  
    
  Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles.    No single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry.  Most of Ford Credit's bank competitors in the United States use credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through standardized systems, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these sources.  This process has resulted in greater competition based on financing rates.  In addition, Ford Credit may face increased competition on wholesale financing for Ford dealers.  Competition from such institutions with lower borrowing costs may increase, which could substantially adversely affect Ford Credit's profitability and the volume of its business. 
    
  New or increased credit, consumer, or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions.      As a finance company, Ford Credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations in which it operates, which can impose significant additional costs and/or restrictions on its business.  In the United States, for example, Ford Credit's operations are subject to regulation, supervision, and licensing under various federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including the federal Truth-in-Lending Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and Fair Credit Reporting Act.   
    
  Congress also passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Financial Protection Act ("Act") in 2010 to reform practices in the financial services industries, including automotive financing and securitizations.  The Act directs federal agencies to adopt rules to regulate the consumer finance industry and the capital markets and, among other things, gives the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that will regulate consumer finance businesses, such as Ford Credit's retail automotive financing business.  The Act also creates an alternative liquidation framework under which the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") may be appointed as receiver of a non-bank financial company if the U.S. Treasury Secretary (in consultation with the President of the United States) determines that the company is in default or danger of default and the resolution of the company under other applicable law (e.g., U.S. bankruptcy law) would have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the United States.  The FDIC's powers under this framework may vary from those of a bankruptcy court under U.S. bankruptcy law, which could adversely impact securitization markets, including Ford Credit's funding activities, regardless of whether Ford Credit ever is determined to be subject to the Act's alternative liquidation framework.   
    
  Federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the rules and regulations necessary to implement the Act, and, consequently, the effects of the Act on the capital markets and the consumer finance industry may not be known for years.  The Act and its implementing rules and regulations could impose additional costs on Ford Credit and adversely affect its ability to conduct its business. 
    
  In some countries outside the United States, Ford Credit's subsidiaries are regulated banking institutions and are required, among other things, to maintain minimum capital reserves.  In many other locations, governmental authorities require companies to have licenses in order to conduct financing businesses.  Efforts to comply with these laws and regulations impose significant costs on Ford Credit, and affect the conduct of its business.  Additional regulation could add significant cost or operational constraints that might impair Ford Credit's profitability. 
    
    ITEM 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments. 
    
  None. 
    22 

ITEM 2.   Properties. 
    
    Our principal properties include manufacturing and assembly facilities, distribution centers, warehouses, sales or administrative offices, and engineering centers. 
    
  We own substantially all of our U.S. manufacturing and assembly facilities.  Our facilities are situated in various sections of the country and include assembly plants, engine plants, casting plants, metal stamping plants, transmission plants, and other component plants.  About half of our distribution centers are leased (we own approximately 54% of the total square footage, and lease the balance).  A substantial amount of our warehousing is provided by third-party providers under service contracts.  Because the facilities provided pursuant to third-party service contracts need not be dedicated exclusively or even primarily to our use, these spaces are not included in the number of distribution centers/warehouses listed in the table below.  The majority of the warehouses that we operate are leased, although many of our manufacturing and assembly facilities contain some warehousing space.  Substantially all of our sales offices are leased space.  Approximately 99% of the total square footage of our engineering centers and our supplementary research and development space is owned by us.   
    
  In addition, we maintain and operate manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, parts distribution centers, and engineering centers outside of the United States.  We own substantially all of our non-U.S. manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, and engineering centers.  The majority of our parts distribution centers outside of the United States are either leased or provided by vendors under service contracts.  As in the United States, space provided by vendors under service contracts need not be dedicated exclusively or even primarily to our use, and is not included in the number of distribution centers/warehouses listed in the table below. 
    
  The total number of plants, distribution centers/warehouses, engineering, research, and development sites, and sales offices used by our Automotive segments as of December 31, 2012 are shown in the table below: 

____________ 
           (a) 
    The year-over-year change in the number of Ford North America plants reflects the closing of one U.S. engine plant, as well as the sale, lease, or other disposition of three facilities operated by Automotive Components Holdings, LLC ("ACH"), partially offset by consolidation of the AAI facility now known as Flat Rock Assembly Plant.  The table continues to reflect one ACH plant (where we are transferring the primary business to a supplier over a period scheduled to end in the fourth quarter of 2014, at which point we plan to close the facility upon completion of transfer of the business). 
              (b) 
    Included in this count are three Ford Europe plants that we have announced we intend to close, one of which is subject to an information and consultation process with employee representatives.  See Item 7 for additional discussion of our European transformation plan.  Also included in this table is Ford Romania S.A. ("Ford Romania"), which came under our full operational control as of January 1, 2013 upon cessation of the government's control and participation.  Ford Romania produces engines and Ford B-MAX for distribution across Europe.  
              (c) 
    During 2012, Ford Asia Pacific Africa closed one plant in the Philippines, and opened a new wholly-owned plant in Rayong, Thailand. 
       
  Included in the number of plants shown above are several plants that are not operated directly by us, but rather by consolidated joint ventures that operate plants that support our Automotive sector.  As of December 31, 2012, the significant consolidated joint ventures and the number of plants each owns is as follows: 

AAI     a 50/50 joint venture with Mazda that operates an automobile assembly plant in Flat Rock, Michigan.  As of September 1, 2012, we acquired full management control of AAI; in exchange, beginning on September 1, 2015 for a three-year period, we have granted Mazda a put option to sell, and received a call option to purchase from Mazda, the 50% equity interest in AAI that is held by Mazda ("Option").  The Option is exercisable at a price to be determined by a formula based on AAI's final December 31, 2012  closing balance sheet.  AAI currently produces the Ford Mustang, and production of the Ford Fusion is scheduled to begin in 2013.  We supply all of the hourly and salaried personnel requirements to AAI, and AAI reimburses us for the cost.   

Ford Lio Ho Motor Company Ltd. ("FLH")     a joint venture in Taiwan among Ford (70% partner), the Lio Ho Group (25% partner), and individual shareholders (5% ownership in aggregate) that assembles a variety of Ford and Mazda vehicles sourced from Ford as well as Mazda.  In addition to domestic assembly, FLH also has local product development capability to modify vehicle designs for local needs, and imports Ford-brand built-up vehicles from the Asia Pacific Africa region, Europe, and the United States.  This joint venture operates one plant. 
       23 

    ITEM 2.  Properties (Continued)                                                                         

Ford Vietnam Limited     a joint venture between Ford (75% partner) and Vietnam Engine and Agricultural Machinery Corporation ("VEAM"), a company owned by the Vietnamese Ministry of Industry and Trade (25% partner).  Ford Vietnam Limited assembles and distributes a variety of Ford passenger and commercial vehicle models.  This joint venture operates one plant. 
       
  In addition to the plants that we operate directly or that are operated by consolidated joint ventures, additional plants that support our Automotive sector are operated by unconsolidated joint ventures of which we are a partner.  These plants are not included in the number of plants shown in the table above.  The most significant of these joint ventures are as follows: 

AutoAlliance (Thailand) Co., Ltd. ("AAT")     a 50/50 joint venture between Ford and Mazda that owns and operates a manufacturing plant in Rayong, Thailand.  AAT produces Ford and Mazda products for domestic and export sales, the latter in both built-up and kit form, with export of certain products to markets outside the Asia Pacific Africa region.  The recently expanded Rayong production facility produces a number of vehicles, including Ford Everest SUV, and Ford Ranger and Mazda BT-50 pickup trucks, as well as Ford Fiesta, Mazda2, and Mazda3 small cars. 

Blue Diamond Parts, LLC ("Blue Diamond Parts")     a joint venture between Ford (25% partner) and Navistar International Corporation (formerly known as International Truck and Engine Corporation) ("Navistar") (75% partner), in which the two partners share equal voting rights.  Blue Diamond Parts manages sourcing, merchandising, and distribution of certain service parts for trucks sold in North America.  We will continue to collaborate on this joint venture. 

Blue Diamond Truck, S. de R.L. de C.V. ("Blue Diamond Truck")     a joint venture between Ford (25% partner) and Navistar (75% partner), in which the two partners share equal voting rights.  Blue Diamond Truck develops and manufactures selected medium duty commercial trucks in Mexico and sells the vehicles to Ford and Navistar for distribution.  We have given notice that we are terminating the Blue Diamond Truck joint venture effective December 2014, and will in-source production of F-650/750 trucks to our Ohio Assembly Plant.   

Changan Ford Automobile Corporation, Ltd. ("CAF")     a 50/50 joint venture between Ford and the Chongqing Changan Automobile Co., Ltd. ("Changan").  CAF, formerly known as Changan Ford Mazda Automobile Corporation, Ltd., was restructured as of November 30, 2012 into two independent companies   CAF, and Changan Mazda Automobile Corporation, Ltd. ("CAM"), a 50/50 joint venture between Mazda and Changan.  CAF retained the facilities in the Chinese city of Chongqing, where it produces and distributes in China an expanding variety of Ford passenger vehicle models, as well as Volvo models.  The facility in Nanjing was transferred to CAM.  CAF currently has under construction two vehicle assembly plants, an engine plant, and a transmission plant to support further growth in the region. 

Changan Ford Mazda Engine Company, Ltd. ("CFME")     a joint venture among Ford (25% partner), Mazda (25% partner), and Changan (50% partner).  CFME is located in Nanjing, and produces the Ford New I4, Ford Sigma, and Mazda BZ engines in support of Ford- and Mazda-brand vehicles manufactured in China. 

Ford Otosan     a joint venture in Turkey among Ford (41% partner), the Koc Group of Turkey (41% partner), and public investors (18%) that is a major supplier to Ford of the Transit Connect series and Transit Connect commercial vehicles and is our sole distributor of Ford-brand vehicles in Turkey.  In addition, Ford Otosan recently signed an agreement with Ford for the development and supply of a new commercial vehicle, the Transit Courier.  Ford Otosan also makes the the Cargo truck for the Turkish and export markets, and certain engines and transmissions, most of which are under license from Ford.  This joint venture owns two plants, a parts distribution depot, and a product development center in Turkey. 

FordSollers      a 50/50 joint venture between Ford and Sollers OJSC ("Sollers"), to which we contributed our operations in Russia, consisting primarily of a manufacturing plant and access to our Russian dealership network.  Sollers contributed two production facilities and supports the joint venture through its manufacturing capabilities, knowledge of the Russian market, experience in distribution, and work with the Russian supply base.  In addition,  the joint venture has an exclusive right to manufacture, assemble, and distribute certain Ford-brand vehicles in Russia through the licensing of certain trademarks and intellectual property rights.  The joint venture primarily is engaged in manufacturing a range of Ford passenger cars and light commercial vehicles for sale in Russia.   The joint venture has been approved to participate in Russia's new industrial assembly regime, which qualifies it for reduced import duties for parts imported into Russia.    
       24 

    ITEM 2.  Properties (Continued)                                                                         

Getrag Ford Transmissions GmbH ("Getrag Ford")     a 50/50 joint venture with Getrag International GmbH, a German company, to which we transferred our European manual transmission operations, including plants, from Halewood, England; Cologne, Germany; and Bordeaux, France.  In 2008, we added the Kechnec plant in Slovakia.  Getrag Ford operates these four plants, producing, among other things, manual transmissions for Ford Europe and Volvo.  We supply most of the hourly and salaried labor requirements of the operations transferred to this joint venture; in the event of surplus labor at the joint venture, our employees assigned to Getrag Ford may return to Ford.  Getrag Ford reimburses us for the full cost of the hourly and salaried labor we supply.   

JMC     a publicly-traded company in China with Ford (30% shareholder) and Jiangling Holdings, Ltd. (41% shareholder) as its controlling shareholders.  Jiangling Holdings, Ltd. is a 50/50 joint venture between Changan and Jiangling Motors Company Group.  The public investors in JMC own 29% of its total outstanding shares.  JMC assembles the Ford Transit van, Ford diesel engines, and non-Ford vehicles for distribution in China and in other export markets. 

Tenedora Nemak, S.A. de C.V.     a joint venture between Ford (6.75% partner) and a subsidiary of Mexican conglomerate Alfa S.A. de C.V. (93.25% partner), which supplies aluminum castings from plants located in each region in which we do business. 
       
  The facilities owned or leased by us or our subsidiaries and joint ventures described above are, in the opinion of management, suitable and more than adequate for the manufacture and assembly of our products. 
    
  The furniture, equipment and other physical property owned by our Financial Services operations are not material in relation to their total assets. 
    
    ITEM 3.   Legal Proceedings. 
    
    The litigation process is subject to many uncertainties, and the outcome of individual litigated matters is not predictable with assurance.  See Note 31 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for discussion of loss contingencies.  Following is a discussion of our significant pending legal proceedings: 
    
  PRODUCT LIABILITY MATTERS 
    
  We are a defendant in numerous actions in state and federal courts within and outside of the United States alleging damages from injuries resulting from (or aggravated by) alleged defects in our vehicle lines of various model years.  In many, no dollar amount of damages is specified, or the specific amount alleged is the jurisdictional minimum.  Our experience with litigation alleging a specific amount of damages suggests that such amounts, on average, bear little relation to the actual amount of damages, if any, that we will pay in resolving such matters.  Any damages we pay in a negotiated settlement or as the result of a verdict generally have been, on average, substantially less than the amounts originally claimed.   
    
  Based on our knowledge of the facts and circumstances asserted, our historical experience with matters of a similar nature, and our assessment of the likelihood of prevailing and the severity of any potential loss, we establish litigation accruals.  In addition to pending actions, we assess the likelihood of incidents that likely have occurred but not yet been reported to us; we also take into consideration specific matters that have been raised as claims but have not yet proceeded to litigation.  Individual product liability matters which, if resolved unfavorably to the Company, likely would involve a significant cost would be described herein.  Currently there are no such matters to report.   
    
  ASBESTOS MATTERS  
    
  Asbestos was used in some brakes, clutches, and other automotive components from the early 1900s.  Along with other vehicle manufacturers, we have been the target of asbestos litigation and, as a result, are a defendant in various actions for injuries claimed to have resulted from alleged exposure to Ford parts and other products containing asbestos.  Plaintiffs in these personal injury cases allege various health problems as a result of asbestos exposure, either from component parts found in older vehicles, insulation or other asbestos products in our facilities, or asbestos aboard our former maritime fleet.  We believe that we are being targeted more aggressively in asbestos suits because many previously-targeted companies have filed for bankruptcy.   
    
  Most of the asbestos litigation we face involves individuals who claim to have worked on the brakes of our vehicles over the years.  We are prepared to defend these cases, and believe that the scientific evidence confirms our long-standing position that there is no increased risk of asbestos-related disease as a result of exposure to the type of  
    25 

    Item 3. Legal Proceedings (Continued)                                                                 

   asbestos formerly used in the brakes on our vehicles.  The extent of our financial exposure to asbestos litigation remains very difficult to estimate and could include both compensatory and punitive damage awards.  The majority of our asbestos cases do not specify a dollar amount for damages; in many of the other cases the dollar amount specified is the jurisdictional minimum, and the vast majority of these cases involve multiple defendants, with the number in some cases exceeding one hundred.  Many of these cases also involve multiple plaintiffs, and often we are unable to tell from the pleadings which plaintiffs are making claims against us (as opposed to other defendants).  Annual payout and defense costs may become significant in the future. 
    
  ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS  
    
  We have received notices under various federal and state environmental laws that we (along with others) are or may be a potentially responsible party for the costs associated with remediating numerous hazardous substance storage, recycling, or disposal sites in many states and, in some instances, for natural resource damages.  We also may have been a generator of hazardous substances at a number of other sites.  The amount of any such costs or damages for which we may be held responsible could be significant.  At this time, we have no individual environmental legal proceedings to which a governmental authority is a party and in which we believe there is the possibility of monetary sanctions in excess of $100,000 to report.  
    
  CLASS ACTIONS  
    
  In light of the fact that very few of the purported class actions filed against us in the past ever have been certified by the courts as class actions, in general we list below those actions that (i) have been certified as a class action by a court of competent jurisdiction (and any additional purported class actions that raise allegations substantially similar to an existing and certified class), and (ii) likely would involve a significant cost if resolved unfavorably to the Company. 
    
  Medium/Heavy Truck Sales Procedure Class Action.    This action pending in the Ohio state court system alleges that Ford breached its Sales and Service Agreement with Ford truck dealers by failing to publish to all Ford dealers all price concessions that were approved for any dealer.  The trial court certified a nationwide class consisting of all Ford dealers who purchased from Ford any 600-series or higher truck from 1987 to 1997, and granted plaintiffs' motion for summary judgment on liability.  During 2011, a jury awarded $4.5 million in damages to the named plaintiff dealer and the trial court applied the jury's findings with regard to the named plaintiff to all dealers in the class, entering a judgment of approximately $2 billion in damages.  We appealed, and on May 3, 2012, the Ohio Court of Appeals reversed the trial court's grant of summary judgment to plaintiffs, vacated the damages award, and remanded the matter for a new trial.    
    
  OTHER MATTERS 
    
  Apartheid Litigation.    Along with two other prominent multinational companies, we are a defendant in purported class action lawsuits seeking unspecified damages on behalf of South African citizens who suffered violence and oppression under South Africa's apartheid regime.  The lawsuits allege that the defendant companies aided and abetted the apartheid regime and its human rights violations.  These cases, collectively referred to as   In re South African Apartheid Litigation  , were initially filed in 2002 and 2003, and are being handled together as coordinated "multidistrict litigation" in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York.  The District Court dismissed these cases in 2004, but in 2007 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed and remanded the cases to the District Court for further proceedings.  Amended complaints were filed during 2008; motions to dismiss have been granted in part and denied in part, and defendants' appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals is pending. 
  Brazilian State Tax Matters.    Three Brazilian states have levied tax assessments against Ford Brazil claiming that certain state tax incentives from the state of Bahia did not receive formal approval from the organization of Brazilian state treasury offices.  We have appealed the assessments to the administrative level in each state.  If we do not prevail at the administrative level, we plan to appeal to the relevant state judicial court, which likely would require us to post significant cash or other collateral in order to proceed.  Our appeals remain at the administrative level in two states, but in one state our administrative appeal has been denied.  We have initiated judicial court proceedings in that state and collateral likely will be required in the first quarter of 2013. 
    
    ITEM 4.    Mine Safety Disclosures. 
    
  Not applicable.   
    26 

ITEM 4A.   Executive Officers of Ford. 
    
  Our executive officers are as follows, along with each executive officer's position and age at February 1, 2013: 
                           Name 

Position 
      
    Position 
  Held Since 
      
    Age 
      William Clay Ford, Jr. (a) 
      
    Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Board 
      
    Sept. 2006 
      
    55 
      Alan Mulally (b) 
      
    President and Chief Executive Officer 
      
    Sept. 2006 
      
    67 
      Mark Fields 
      
    Chief Operating Officer 
      
    Dec. 2012 
      
    52 
      James D. Farley, Jr. 
      
    Executive Vice President   Global Marketing, Sales and Service and Lincoln 
      
    Dec. 2012 
      
    50 
      John Fleming 
      
    Executive Vice President   Global Manufacturing and Labor Affairs 
      
    Dec. 2009 
      
    62 
      Joseph R. Hinrichs 
      
    Executive Vice President   President, The Americas 
      
    Dec. 2012 
      
    46 
      Stephen T. Odell 
      
    Executive Vice President   President, Europe, Middle East and Africa 
      
    Dec. 2012 
      
    57 
      Bob Shanks 
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
      
    Apr. 2012 
      
    60 
      Tony Brown 
      
    Group Vice President   Purchasing 
      
    Apr. 2008 
      
    56 
      Felicia Fields 
      
    Group Vice President   Human Resources and Corporate Services 
      
    Apr. 2008 
      
    47 
      Bennie Fowler 
      
    Group Vice President   Quality 
      
    Apr. 2008 
      
    56 
      David G. Leitch 
      
    Group Vice President and General Counsel 
      
    Apr. 2005 
      
    52 
      J C. Mays 
      
    Group Vice President and Chief Creative Officer 
      
    Aug. 2003 
      
    58 
      Raj Nair 
      
    Group Vice President   Global Product Development 
      
    Apr. 2012 
      
    48 
      Ziad S. Ojakli 
      
    Group Vice President   Government and Community Relations 
      
    Jan. 2004 
      
    45 
      Dave Schoch 
      
    Group Vice President   President, Asia Pacific 
      
    Dec. 2012 
      
    61 
      Bernard Silverstone 
      
    Group Vice President   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Ford Motor Credit Co. 
      
    Jan. 2013 
      
    57 
      Nick Smither 
      
    Group Vice President   Chief Information Officer 
      
    Apr. 2008 
      
    54 
      Stuart Rowley 
      
    Vice President and Controller 
      
    Apr. 2012 
      
    45 

____________ 
           (a) 
    Also a Director, Chair of the Office of the Chairman and Chief Executive, Chair of the Finance Committee and a member of the Sustainability Committee of the Board of Directors. 
              (b) 
    Also a Director and member of the Office of the Chairman and Chief Executive and the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors. 

Each of the officers listed above has been employed by Ford or its subsidiaries in one or more capacities during the past five years.  
    
  Under our by-laws, executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors at an annual meeting of the Board held for this purpose.  Each officer is elected to hold office until a successor is chosen or as otherwise provided in the by-laws. 

27 

PART II. 
    
    ITEM 5.    Market for Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 
    
  Our Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange in the United States, and on certain stock exchanges in Belgium and France. 
    
  The table below shows the high and low sales prices for our Common Stock, and the dividends we paid per share of Common and Class B Stock, for each quarterly period in 2011 and 2012: 

__________ 
           (a) 
    New York Stock Exchange composite intraday prices as listed in the price history database available at www.NYSEnet.com. 
       
  As of February 1, 2013, stockholders of record of Ford included approximately 151,240 holders of Common Stock and 66 holders of Class B Stock. 
    
  As previously reported, we conducted a modest anti-dilutive share repurchase program during 2012, which authorized repurchases of our Common Stock in an appropriate amount up to the lower of $150 million or 11.7 million shares to offset the dilutive effect of share-based compensation.  During the fourth quarter, we repurchased shares of Ford Common Stock as follows: 

__________ 
           (a) 
    In any given month, the difference between the total number of shares purchased and the number of shares purchased as part of the publicly-announced plan reflects shares that were acquired from our employees or directors related to certain exercises of stock options in accordance with our various compensation plans.  
       
  As shown above, our anti-dilutive share repurchase program concluded in the fourth quarter of 2012.  In total, pursuant to this program we repurchased 11.7 million shares of Ford Common Stock at a cost of $125 million.   
    
  For discussion of our outstanding convertible notes, convertible and exercisable into our Common Stock, see Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.   
    
    28 

ITEM 6.   Selected Financial Data. 
    
  On January 1, 2010, we adopted the new accounting standard regarding consolidation of variable interest entities ("VIEs").  We have applied the standard retrospectively to periods covered in this Report, and present prior-year financial statement data on a basis that is revised for the application of this standard.  The following table sets forth selected financial data for each of the last five years (dollar amounts in millions, except for per share amounts): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Debt related to Ford's acquisition of Ford Credit debt securities. 
       29 

ITEM 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 
    
    OVERVIEW    
    
  Revenue 
    
  Our Automotive sector's revenue is generated primarily by sales of vehicles, parts, and accessories; we generally treat sales and marketing incentives as a reduction to revenue.  Revenue is recorded when all risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to our customers (generally, our dealers and distributors).  For the majority of sales, this occurs when products are shipped from our manufacturing facilities.  This is not the case, however, with respect to vehicles produced for sale to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option.  These vehicles are accounted for as operating leases, with lease revenue and profits recognized over the term of the lease.  When we sell the returned vehicle at auction, we recognize a gain or loss on the difference, if any, between actual auction value and the projected auction value.  In addition, revenue for finished vehicles we sell to customers or vehicle modifiers on consignment is not recognized until the vehicle is sold to the ultimate customer.   
    
  Most of the vehicles sold by us to our dealers and distributors are financed at wholesale by Ford Credit.  Upon Ford Credit originating the wholesale receivable related to a dealer's purchase of a vehicle, Ford Credit pays cash to the relevant legal entity in our Automotive sector in payment of the dealer's obligation for the purchase price of the vehicle.  The dealer then pays the wholesale finance receivable to Ford Credit when it sells the vehicle to a retail customer. 
    
  Our Financial Services sector's revenue is generated primarily from interest on finance receivables, net of certain deferred origination costs that are included as a reduction of financing revenue, and such revenue is recognized over the term of the receivable using the interest method.  Also, revenue from operating leases, net of certain deferred origination costs, is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.  Income is generated to the extent revenues exceed expenses, most of which are interest, depreciation, and operating expenses. 
    
  Transactions between our Automotive and Financial Services sectors occur in the ordinary course of business.  For example, we offer special retail financing and lease incentives to dealers' customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from Ford Credit.  The estimated cost for these incentives is recorded as revenue reduction to   Automotive sales   at the later of the date the related vehicle sales to our dealers are recorded or the date the incentive program is both approved and communicated.  In order to compensate Ford Credit for the lower interest or lease rates offered to the retail customer, we pay the discounted value of the incentive directly to Ford Credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract with the dealer's customer.  Ford Credit recognizes the amount over the life of the related contracts as an element of financing revenue.  See Note 1 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of transactions and payments between our Automotive and Financial Services sectors.   
    
  Costs and Expenses 
    
  Our income statement classifies our Automotive total costs and expenses into two categories:  (i) cost of sales, and (ii) selling, administrative, and other expenses.  We include within cost of sales those costs related to the development, manufacture, and distribution of our vehicles, parts, and accessories.  Specifically, we include in cost of sales each of the following:  material costs (including commodity costs); freight costs; warranty, including product recall and customer satisfaction program costs; labor and other costs related to the development and manufacture of our products; depreciation and amortization; and other associated costs.  We include within selling, administrative, and other expenses labor and other costs not directly related to the development and manufacture of our products, including such expenses as advertising and sales promotion costs.   
    
  Certain of our costs, such as material costs, generally vary directly with changes in volume and mix of production.  In our industry, production volume often varies significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year.  Quarterly production volumes experience seasonal shifts throughout the year (including peak retail sales seasons, and the impact on production of model changeover and new product launches).  As we have seen in recent years, annual production volumes are heavily impacted by external economic factors, including the pace of economic growth and factors such as the availability of consumer credit and cost of fuel.   
    
    30 

    Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   As a result, we analyze the profit impact of certain cost changes holding constant present-year volume and mix and currency exchange, in order to evaluate our cost trends absent the impact of varying production and currency exchange levels.  We analyze these cost changes in the following categories:   

Material excluding commodity costs - primarily reflecting the change in cost of purchased parts used in the assembly of our vehicles.   
                
    Commodity costs - reflecting the change in cost for raw materials (such as steel, aluminum, and resins) used in the manufacture of our products.   
                
    Structural costs - reflecting the change in costs that generally do not have a directly proportionate relationship to our production volumes, such as labor costs, including pension and health care; other costs related to the development and manufacture of our vehicles; depreciation and amortization; and advertising and sales promotion costs.  
                
    Warranty and other costs - reflecting the change in cost related to warranty coverage, including product recalls and customer satisfaction actions, as well as the change in freight and other costs related to the distribution of our vehicles and support for the sale and distribution of parts and accessories.   
       
  While material (including commodity), freight, and warranty costs generally vary directly in proportion to production volume, elements within our structural costs category are impacted to differing degrees by changes in production volume.  We also have varying degrees of discretion when it comes to controlling the different elements within our structural costs.  For example, depreciation and amortization expense largely is associated with prior capital spending decisions.  On the other hand, while labor costs do not vary directly with production volume, manufacturing labor costs may be impacted by changes in volume, for example when we increase overtime, add a production shift or add personnel to support volume increases.  Other structural costs, such as advertising or engineering costs, do not necessarily have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume.  Our structural costs generally are within our discretion, although to varying degrees, and can be adjusted over time in response to external factors.    
    
  We consider certain structural costs to be a direct investment in future growth and revenue.  For example, increases in structural costs are necessary to grow our business and improve profitability as we expand around the world, invest in new products and technologies, respond to increasing industry sales volume, and grow our market share.  
    
  Automotive total costs and expenses for full-year 2012 was $121.6 billion.  Material costs (including commodity costs) make up the largest portion of our Automotive total costs and expenses, representing in 2012 about two-thirds of the total amount.  Of the remaining balance of our Automotive costs and expenses, the largest piece is structural costs.  Although material costs are our largest absolute cost, our margins can be affected significantly by changes in any category of costs. 
    
  Key Economic Factors and Trends Affecting the Automotive Industry  
    
  Global Economic Conditions.    During 2011, global economic growth slowed to about 2.5% from 4% in 2010, as the worsening debt crisis in Europe, regime changes in North Africa, natural disasters in Japan and Thailand, and moderating economic growth in several key newly-developed and emerging markets all contributed to slow growth.  Global growth in 2012 remained at the relatively low level of about 2.5% due to the European debt crisis, slowing of Chinese economic growth, and moderate pace of recovery in the United States.  During 2013, global economic growth is expected to remain in the 2% - 3% range. The European debt crisis remains a key risk to economic growth.  The current economic performance in many European countries, particularly Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, is being hampered by excessive government debt levels and the resulting budget austerity measures that are contributing to weak economic growth.  The EU, the European Central Bank, and the International Monetary Fund have provided important support for many of these countries undergoing structural changes.  During 2013, economic growth is likely to remain weak in these markets, even though financial markets have begun to stabilize.  The U.K. government has implemented budget cuts and tax increases that will depress growth, although the labor market has stabilized in recent months. 
    
  Uncertainties associated with the European debt crisis, and policy responses to it, could impact global economic performance in 2013.  Although housing is stabilizing in some of the worst hit markets, such as the United States, the prospect of a strong economic rebound is hampered by fiscal tightening.  
    
    31 

    Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Global industry vehicle sales volume (including medium and heavy truck) is estimated to have increased to 81 million units in 2012, up more than 4 million units - or about 5% - from 2011 levels.  In 2013, in light of the volatile external environment, global industry sales are projected to be in a range of 80 million - 85 million units.   
    
  Excess Capacity.    According to IHS Automotive, an automotive research firm, the estimated automotive industry global production capacity for light vehicles (which as of 2011 includes an expanded truck segment compared with previous years) of about 108 million units exceeded global production by about 26 million units in 2012.  In North America and Europe, the two regions where the majority of industry revenue and profits are earned, excess capacity as a percent of production in 2012 was an estimated 11% and 37%, respectively.  According to production capacity data projected by IHS Automotive, global excess capacity conditions could continue for several years at an average of about 31 million units per year during the period from 2013 to 2017. 
    
  Pricing Pressure.    Excess capacity, coupled with a proliferation of new products being introduced in key segments, will keep pressure on manufacturers' ability to increase prices.  In North America, the industry restructuring of the past few years has allowed manufacturers to better match production with demand, although Japanese and Korean manufacturers also have capacity (located outside of the region) directed to North America.  In the future, Chinese and Indian manufacturers are expected to enter U.S. and European markets, further intensifying competition.  Although there has been some firming of pricing in the U.S. market, particularly in 2011, it seems likely that over the long term intense competition and apparent excess capacity will continue to put downward pressure on inflation-adjusted prices for similarly-contented vehicles in the United States and contribute to a challenging pricing environment for the automotive industry.  In Europe, the excess capacity situation was exacerbated by weakening demand and the lack of reductions in existing capacity, such that negative pricing pressure is expected to continue for the foreseeable future. 
    
  Commodity and Energy Price Increases.    Despite weak demand conditions, light sweet crude oil prices increased from an average of $80 per barrel in 2010 to $95 per barrel in 2011, before declining slightly to about $87 per barrel in late 2012.  Commodity prices have declined recently, but over the longer term prices are likely to trend higher given global demand growth.   
    
  Vehicle Profitability.    Our financial results depend on the profitability of the vehicles we sell, which may vary significantly by vehicle line.  In general, larger vehicles tend to command higher prices and be more profitable than smaller vehicles, both across and within vehicle segments.  For example, in North America, our larger, more profitable vehicles had an average contribution margin that was about 130% of our total average contribution margin across all vehicles, whereas our smaller vehicles had significantly lower contribution margins.  As we execute our One Ford plan, we are working to create best-in-class vehicles on global platforms that contribute higher margins, and offering a more balanced portfolio of vehicles with which we aim to be among the leaders in fuel efficiency in every segment in which we compete.         
    
  Increasing Sales of Smaller Vehicles  .  Like other manufacturers, we are increasing our participation in newly-developed and emerging markets, such as Brazil, Russia, India, and China, in which vehicle sales are expected to increase at a faster rate than in most mature markets.  The largest segments in these markets are small vehicles (i.e., Sub-B, B, and C segments).  To increase our participation in these fast-growing markets, we are significantly increasing our production capacity, directly or through joint ventures.  In addition, we expect that increased demand for smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles will continue in the mature markets of North America and Europe and, consequently, we have seen and expect in the future strong demand in those markets for our small car offerings (including our new Ford Fiesta and Focus models that are based on global platforms).  Although we expect positive contribution margins from higher small vehicle sales, one result of increased production of small vehicles may be that, over time, our average per unit margin decreases because small vehicles tend to have lower margins than medium and large vehicles.   
    
  Currency Exchange Rate Volatility.    The European debt crisis has contributed to recent financial market volatility. Coupled with the ongoing policy actions taken by central banks to support the financial system, exchange rates have remained volatile.  Most recently, the euro currency value has fluctuated as progress toward a solution to the sovereign debt crisis remains highly uncertain; the yen has depreciated significantly as a result of policy changes by the Japanese government and Bank of Japan.  The high inflation in newly-developed and emerging markets and capital flight to perceived stable investments have started to erode the strength of some local currencies.  In most markets, exchange rates are market-determined, and all are impacted by many different macroeconomic and policy factors, and thus likely to remain volatile.  In some other markets, exchange rates are heavily influenced or controlled by governments.  
    32 

    Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Trade Policy.    To the extent governments in various regions erect or intensify barriers to imports, or implement currency policy that advantages local exporters selling into the global marketplace, there can be a significant negative impact on manufacturers based in markets that promote free trade.  While we believe the long-term trend is toward the growth of free trade, we have noted with concern recent developments in a number of regions.  In Asia Pacific Africa, for example, the recent dramatic depreciation of the yen significantly reduces the cost of exports into the United States, Europe, and other global markets by Japanese manufacturers.  Over a period of time, the emerging weakness of the yen can contribute to other countries pursuing weak currency policies by intervening in the exchange rate markets.  This is particularly likely in other Asian countries, such as South Korea.  As another example, government actions in South America to incentivize local production and balance trade are driving trade frictions between South American countries and also with Mexico, resulting in business environment instability and new trade barriers.  We will continue to monitor and address developing issues around trade policy.   
    
  Other Economic Factors.    The eventual implications of higher government deficits and debt, with potentially higher long-term interest rates, could drive a higher cost of capital over our planning period.  Higher interest rates and/or taxes to address the higher deficits also may impede real growth in gross domestic product and, therefore, vehicle sales over our planning period. 
    
  Trends and Strategies  
    
  We remain firm in our belief that our continued focus on executing the four key priorities of our One Ford plan enables us to go further for our customers, dealers, suppliers, employees, shareholders, and other key constituencies: 

Aggressively restructure to operate profitably at the current demand and changing model mix; 
                
    Accelerate development of new products our customers want and value; 
                
    Finance our plan and improve our balance sheet; and 
                
    Work together effectively as one team, leveraging our global assets. 
       
  Despite the external economic environment in recent years, we have made significant progress in transforming our business. 
    
  Aggressively Restructure to Operate Profitably 
    
  Brands.    In recent years, we have eliminated a number of brands from our portfolio in order to devote fully our financial, product development, production, and marketing and sales and services resources toward further growing our core Ford and Lincoln brands.  We sold Aston Martin, Jaguar, Land Rover, and Volvo, and we discontinued the Mercury brand and further reduced our stake in Mazda.  In 2012, we announced the revitalization of Lincoln reflecting the brand's distinct product strategy, including its own dedicated design studio, separate creative agency in New York, and financial services team to complement the vehicle acquisition and ownership experience.   
    
  Manufacturing.    We are committed to maintaining an appropriate manufacturing footprint in markets around the world, both in the more mature markets in which we have an established presence, and in fast-growing newly-developed and emerging markets.  We are making substantial investments in newly-developed and emerging markets, including in China, India, and Thailand to increase our production capacity with flexible new manufacturing plants.  We and our unconsolidated affiliates in Asia Pacific Africa launched two new plants in 2012, and have announced that we expect to complete seven more plants in the region by mid-decade.  We also are making substantial investments in North America to grow production as industry sales rebound, including the addition of 400,000 annual incremental units of production capacity during 2012 and significant hiring in the United States as part of our manufacturing capacity expansions.   
    
  In October 2012, we also announced our plan to transform our European operations in response to structural industry overcapacity in the region.  Our plan targets all areas of the business, including product, brand, and cost.  We have detailed an aggressive product acceleration in Europe, including plans to introduce 15 global vehicles within five years; we are taking steps to further strengthen our brand, and to enhance brand awareness in fast-growing emerging markets within the region; and we are moving to ensure a more efficient manufacturing footprint.  As announced, we intend to close three European manufacturing facilities, which would affect approximately 6,200 positions.  Our intent to close our assembly plant in Genk, Belgium is subject to an information and consultation process with employee representatives, which we have commenced.  See "Outlook" for additional discussion of our European transformation plan. 
    33 

    Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Suppliers  .  We continue to work to strengthen our global supply base.  As part of this process, we have been reducing the global number of production suppliers from 3,300 in 2004 to about 1,260 at year-end 2012.  We have identified plans that will take us to a target of about 750 suppliers, and we are confident that our consolidation efforts will result in a stronger and healthier supply base.  We continue to work closely with our suppliers to address any near-term capacity constraints as we continue to ramp up production.  In addition, our move to global vehicle platforms increases our ability to source to common suppliers for the total global volume of vehicle components resulting in a smaller number of suppliers receiving a greater volume of purchases to support our global vehicle platforms and allowing us to gain greater economies of scale. 
    
  Ford and Lincoln Dealerships  .  Our dealers are a source of strength in North America and around the world, representing the face of Ford to local communities.  Our goal is to achieve a sustainable and profitable dealer network by rightsizing the number of dealerships, identifying the right locations, and ensuring the appropriate branded facilities to satisfy current and future demand.  We are adding dealerships rapidly in markets in our Asia Pacific Africa region where industry volume is growing at a rapid pace.  Our network includes about 460 dealerships in China, and about 170 dealerships in India.  We have plans to continue our expansion of these networks, in addition to the dealership networks in our growth markets of Brazil and Russia.  We have completed planned dealer consolidations in the United States to rightsize the number of Ford and Lincoln outlets, particularly in our largest 130 metropolitan markets.  As part of these efforts, we have reduced the number of outlets in our U.S. Ford and Lincoln network from about 4,400 at the end of 2005 to about 3,290 at the end of 2012.  This has contributed to increased profitability of our U.S. dealers as they have grown their businesses by investing in their facilities, employees, and communities while continuously striving to improve the experience of retail customers.  
    
  Product Development.    Our One Ford global product development system is fully operationalized, utilizing global platforms to deliver customer-focused programs rapidly and efficiently across global markets.  Through our "hub and satellite" approach, one lead product development engineering center - the hub - is assigned for each global vehicle line, thereby ensuring global scale and efficiency through common designs, parts, suppliers, and manufacturing processes.  The hubs are supported by regional engineering centers - satellites - which also help deliver products tuned to local market customer preferences while maintaining global design DNA.  Typical delivery metrics for global programs include 80% part commonality, 75% pre-sourcing to global suppliers, and 100% common manufacturing and assembly process.   
    
  The global Ford lineup is now one of the most extensive in the industry and includes a full spectrum of offerings from innovative small cars (B-platform products) such as the B-MAX sold in Europe to large commercial trucks sold around the world. The strength of our One Ford plan has enabled a focus on delivering the industry's best refresh rate, sustained and funded by efficiencies and delivered by a world-class global network of engineering centers.  We agree with external analysts that a sustained fresh showroom is a good indicator of long-term market share growth. 
    
  We are making swift progress on our commitment to platform consolidation.  In 2007, we utilized 27 different vehicle platforms.  By 2014, we will have 14 total platforms, and we are on track to meet our target of nine core platforms globally.  By 2013, more than 87% of our global volume will be produced across just nine core platforms.  One of these platforms, our global C-platform, which underpins a number of unique vehicles including the best-selling Focus, will produce more platform volume than any other automaker - evidence small cars are a clear global priority.  Our new B-sized Fiesta and C-sized Focus are now among the best-selling nameplates in the world.  Over the past few years, we have been reinventing our global portfolio of vehicles - small, medium, large, cars, utilities and trucks - and have a mid-decade target of selling approximately 8 million vehicles around the world.   
    
  In 2013, we also are focused on strategic opportunities around commercial vehicles.  The global commercial vehicle industry represented approximately 17 million units in 2012, and is forecasted to grow by 4.8 million units - or 28% - through 2017.  Ford has been the best-selling brand of commercial vehicles in North America for 28 years.  In Europe, Transit vans are the best-selling medium commercial brand.  We plan to leverage these strengths through a common global family of commercial vehicles across all applicable markets.   
    
  Our full spectrum of van products now carries the Transit badge umbrella and spans three platforms, including the B-sized Transit Courier; C-sized Transit Connect; full-size, one-ton front-wheel-drive Transit Custom; and full-size, two-ton rear-wheel-drive Transit - providing right-sized Built Ford Tough products for all customer applications and markets.  Our new lineup of full-size Transit commercial vans will offer the largest available selection of configurations and engine types to global customers (and provide an initial average scale of more than 475,000 units annually).  In Europe, the Transit Custom, which launched in 2012, won the 2013 International Van of the Year award. 
    34 

    Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   We also will supplement our commercial van line with personal-use variants, including the Tourneo wagon offerings, delivering premium look and feel to discerning customers and additional premium revenue. 
    
  Further proof of our commitment to truck leadership is our 36 years as America's top truck producer.  In 2012, our F-Series outsold its nearest competitors by a wide margin.  At the 2013 North American International Auto Show, we provided a glimpse of our strategy to protect and expand our truck leadership by showing the Ford Atlas Concept - which won Autoweek     Magazine's Most Significant vehicle award.  The bold emotive styling, innovative features, and fuel economy leadership intentions are more than a hint of the designs to come. 
    
  Our market strength in trucks is due to great products and strong customer relationships - Ford trucks are clear leaders in commercial subcategories, including mining, construction, oil and energy, small business, etc.  Our future market expectations are further bolstered by global economic recovery indicators. 
    
  Additionally, Ford Motor Company is firmly committed to the transformation and success of the Lincoln brand.  The 2013 Lincoln MKZ is our first transformational product - with four all-new Lincolns in total launching within the next four years.  Each will deliver: 

A uniquely Lincoln experience, inside and out - built on our core platforms, leveraging global scale and efficiencies 
                
    Design excellence that is stunning and understated, with premium amenities offered on every nameplate 
                
    Product excellence that is enabled by class-leading technologies 
                
    The full spectrum of customer services that discerning luxury customers expect and appreciate 
       
  Lincoln is focusing on the largest and fastest-growing segments of the luxury market, with the intention of having all-new entries competing in 90% of the premium industry by 2015.  
    
  The global premium industry is projected to grow 39% by 2017.  China will play a key role in that period.  By 2017, the United States and China will represent 50% of the global premium opportunity - exactly why Lincoln recently announced plans to enter China, the single largest car market in the world.  
    
  Accelerate Development of New Products Our Customers Want and Value 
    
  Our global product strategy is to serve our key geographic markets with a complete family of small, medium and large, cars, utilities and trucks that have best-in-class design and quality, are environmentally responsible, and contain high-value feature content.  The result of this strategy is a full line of vehicles that: 
    
     Have bold, emotive exterior design 
     Are great to drive 
     Are great to sit in (with the comfort and convenience of a second home on wheels and exceptional quietness) 
     Provide fuel economy as a reason to buy 
     Are unmistakably a Ford or Lincoln in look, sound and feel 
     Provide exceptional value and quality 
    
  Developing products customers want and value for Ford and Lincoln demands consistent focus on our commitment to lead in four key areas - Quality, Green, Safe and Smart. 
    
  Quality.    We have made significant strides in recent years to achieve world-class levels of quality and desirability.  This has been accomplished by following an established global set of disciplined, standardized processes that are aimed at making us a leader in automotive quality.  Via our common global management team, we are leveraging our assets by eliminating duplication, implementing best practices and utilizing a systematic approach to quality. 
    
         Overall, we expect quality to improve in 2013, including improvement in North America, where we are making progress addressing specific customer concerns.  We already have made steady and significant progress in South America, Europe, and Asia Pacific Africa.   
    
       In fact, using the key quality measure of "things gone wrong" ("TGW") per 1,000 vehicles at three months in service, as measured by Global Quality Research System, a Ford-sponsored competitive research survey, we had our best performance of the last five years in 2012 in South America, Europe, and Asia Pacific Africa, and we expect to build on this solid accomplishment in 2013. 
    35 

    Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Green  .  Our commitment and approach to sustainability is unique in the industry.  We prefer to provide our customers the power of choice.  All Ford front-wheel drive and all-wheel drive global platforms are engineered to accept a full technology range of gasoline, diesel, hybrid, plug-in hybrid or electric vehicle propulsion systems.  That concept, coupled with our commitment to standardized flexible production facilities, provides Ford the advantage of producing vehicles to meet unique customer preferences or changes across markets real-time as they occur.  More importantly, our commitment to provide fuel economy leadership with every all-new or significantly refreshed product is unwavering. 
    
  The new C-platform is a good example.  The 2013 Focus SFE, with 2.0-liter gasoline engine technology, is among the fuel economy leaders in the United States, delivering an EPA-rated 40 mpg on the highway.  In Europe, the same Focus with a 1.6-liter diesel enjoys fuel economy/CO   2    leadership in the most competitive diesel market in the world.  The same Focus is also available in North America as a full battery-electric vehicle with leadership in charge rate and range.  Focus Electric has been certified by EPA to offer 110 MPGe in the city.  Additionally, the 2013 C-MAX Hybrid and C-MAX Energi plug-in hybrid sold in North America are built on the same C-platform and deliver leadership against competitive vehicles.  Lastly, our first global C-size sports car, Focus ST, delivers more than 250 horsepower from an advanced 2.0-liter EcoBoost        engine; Focus ST offers driving excitement and leadership in fuel economy against its competitors.  All of these vehicles, from Focus Electric and C-MAX Energi to the high-performance Focus ST, are built for North America at the same plant - Michigan Assembly Plant - running on the same line resulting in lower overall costs.       
    
  South America and Asia Pacific regions are rapidly evolving to embrace fuel economy and low-emissions technologies as well.  Therefore, Ford is accelerating migration of world-class EcoBoost, hybrid and next-generation diesels to those markets at the same time we are leveraging global platforms and top hats.  That translates into global-scale cost and investment efficiencies as well as ongoing affordable freshening and technology cadence across all markets. 
    
  Safe  .     We are strengthening our safety leadership by focusing on three key areas - addressing driver behavior, enhancing crash protection even further, and pioneering the next frontier of safety with driver-assist crash-avoidance technologies. 
    
  For example, we introduced MyKey        to help parents encourage teenagers to drive more safely and fuel efficiently, and to increase safety belt usage.  MyKey - which debuted on the 2010 Focus and Taurus, and is now standard on most Ford and Lincoln models - allows owners to program a key that can limit the vehicle's top speed and audio volume as well as mute the audio if front seat occupants are not buckled up.  For 2013, the SYNC "Do Not Disturb" feature was added to MyKey.  We also are the leader in another dimension of driver behavior - enabling drivers to more safely operate vehicles during recent years in which we have seen a sharp growth in the number of personal electronic devices (e.g., cell phones, MP3 players, etc.).  Our SYNC system provides hands-free connectivity, with more than 5 million SYNC-equipped vehicles on the road, and our just-launched second generation of SYNC has added a "Do Not Disturb" feature that allows users to redirect incoming messages and calls directly to their cellular mailbox.  We expect to have 14 million SYNC-equipped vehicles on the road by 2015 as we launch SYNC globally. 
    
  We have led the industry in migrating driver assist technologies from premium segments to family segments. We also offer a new advanced crash-avoidance technology - collision warning with brake support - on several Ford and Lincoln vehicles including Ford Taurus, Fusion, Edge and Explorer, and Lincoln MKS, MKX, MKZ and MKT. This feature uses radar to monitor traffic directly ahead, and warns the driver with an authoritative beep and a red warning light projected on the windshield if a collision threat is detected.  We also launched the industry's first-ever production use of inflatable seat belts, designed to provide additional protection for rear-seat occupants - often children and older passengers who can be more vulnerable to head, chest, and neck injuries.  This technology is now incorporated into the 2013 Ford Flex and Explorer, and Lincoln MKT and MKZ, and we plan to expand further offerings to other vehicles globally. 
    
  Other global driver-assist features such as Blind Spot Information System (BLIS       ), active park assist and adaptive cruise control have enjoyed strong customer demand and expanded vehicle applications.  We also have begun offering the next suite of new safety features and driver-assistance technologies - we introduced Lane-Keeping Aid and Driver Alert on the 2013 Ford Explorer and Fusion and Lincoln MKS, MKZ and MKT in North America and the Ford Mondeo and Focus in Europe. 
    
    36 

    Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   The independent car safety organization, Euro NCAP, named the Focus Europe's best-in-class small family car, while Focus also became the industry's first vehicle to earn four Euro NCAP Advanced Technology Awards, being recognized for Active City Stop, Lane-Keeping Aid, Driver Alert, and Forward Alert. Features such as Speed Limiter, Torque Vectoring Control, Traffic Sign Recognition System, All-Seat BeltMinder        and Power Child Locks also have been introduced in Europe on Focus, C-MAX, Grand C-MAX, Mondeo, S-MAX and Galaxy.  
    
  Smart.    We recently completed our seventh consecutive year participating in the International Consumer Electronics Show ("CES"), which many media say is becoming more important than ever to automakers.  At the 2013 show, Ford Chief Technical Officer Paul Mascarenas and Vice President of Engineering Hau Thai-Tang introduced the Ford Developer Program, the automotive industry's first smartphone app software development program.  The program allows for those outside the company with innovative ideas to work with Ford to create compelling and valuable new features and services for our customers at an unprecedented rate.  Using SYNC AppLink       , drivers are able to connect their smartphones and control their favorite mobile apps simply using their voice.  
    
  We continue to work on the future of the connected car, having introduced the Ford Evos Concept to North America for the first time at the 2012 CES.  The Evos Concept showcases a dramatic four-door, four-seat fastback concept with a state-of-the-art lithium-ion plug-in hybrid powertrain that previews our vision for customer-focused, intuitive technologies.  Driver engagement technologies explore a seamless enhancement of the driving experience and smart electrified powertrain.  Technologies use online data to check for potential travel routes and to set the most efficient braking, steering and suspension settings with efficient and enjoyable powertrain settings, and to reserve a charging parking spot at the driver's destination.  We also built on our power of choice fuel-efficient powertrain momentum by showcasing and offering drives of the Fiesta with EcoBoost 1.0-liter three-cylinder engine, Fusion Hybrid and C-MAX Energi plug-in hybrid - which was named Official Car of CES at the 2013 show.  
    
  Building upon our demonstrated strategy to globally democratize our technology, Fusion and Explorer launched with a full suite of driver-assist technologies, each leading their respective segments.  With features including Lane-Keeping Aid, adaptive cruise control and active park assist, both vehicles help drivers with a new level of convenience.  Lane-Keeping uses a forward-facing camera to monitor the lane markings ahead and warn drivers if they are drifting outside, and will even nudge the car back into the correct lane if the driver does not immediately respond.  Adaptive cruise control features radar that tracks the vehicles ahead of you and keeps pace and maintains a safe distance, adjusting as necessary to the speed of traffic.  Active park assist helps drivers minimize the stress associated with parallel parking.  Using sonar, the car can identify an appropriate parallel parking spot and then assist the driver by automatically steering the car into the spot while the driver maintains control of the throttle and brakes.  Additionally, the new Lincoln MKZ introduces Active Noise Control ("ANC"), which helps manage the sounds passengers hear inside the car.  Using elements of the audio system, ANC technology will block out unwanted engine and road noise, helping improve the overall in-car experience. 
    
  We also are celebrating the first anniversary of the new Ford Silicon Valley Lab, which opened in 2012 in downtown Palo Alto, California.  Our lab employees are working closely with local universities including Stanford, new startup companies, and leading innovators such as Facebook, Microsoft, and Google.  
    
  Leveraging key new technologies across multiple regions and on global platforms helps drive tremendous scale and efficiency savings that can be reinvested, allowing us to have the freshest showroom in the industry.  In 2012, we showed growth in nearly every aspect of our business, with 25 new vehicles launched around the world.  We expect to grow even further in 2013, driven by having the freshest products in the business - the average age of our global product lineup improves again this year compared with 2012.  
    
  Our aggressive freshening cadence and relentless focus on efficiency is producing results that are greater than our major global full-line competitors.  Our global programs continue to offer bold, emotive designs, high levels of quality, fuel economy leadership, top safety ratings, innovative technologies, and greater feature content than higher-series competitive offerings, which will allow us to reduce brand discounts and increase revenue across our portfolio.  This overall combination of cost efficiency and revenue enhancement that is being realized from One Ford and our global product strategy will help us continue to profitably grow and Go Further. 
    
    37 

    Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Finance Our Plan and Strengthen Our Balance Sheet 
    
  Execution of our One Ford plan has generated significant positive Automotive operating-related cash flow in recent years, which has allowed us to strengthen our balance sheet while continuing to invest in new products that customers want and value, transform and grow our business, pay our debts and obligations as and when they come due, pay a sustainable dividend, and provide protection within an uncertain global economic environment.  We expect to generate significant positive Automotive operating-related cash flow again in 2013.   
    
  Work Together Effectively as One Team 
    
  As part of the One Team approach, we have implemented a disciplined business plan process to regularly review our business environment, risks and opportunities, strategy, and plan, and to identify areas of our plan that need special attention while pursuing opportunities to improve our plan.  Everyone is included and contributes, openness is encouraged, our leaders are responsible and accountable, we use facts and data to make our decisions, high performance teamwork is a performance criteria - and we follow this process every week, every month, and every quarter, driving continuous improvement.  We believe this process gives us a clear picture of our business in real time and the ability to respond quickly and decisively to new issues and changing conditions - as we have done in the face of rapid changes in the market and business environment in the last few years.  As needed, we convene daily management meetings to handle potentially acute situations, which  allows us to ensure that we are vigorously managing daily developments and moving decisively in response to changing conditions. 
    
  In addition, we are partnering with and enlisting all of our stakeholders to help us execute our plan to deal with our business realities and create an exciting and viable business going forward.  We are reaching out and listening to customers, dealers, employees, labor unions, suppliers, investors, communities, retirees, and federal, state, and local governments.  Each of these constituencies is a critical part of the success of our business going forward.  Realizing our goal of profitable growth for all is as important to these stakeholders as it is to our shareholders. 
    
    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
    
  TOTAL COMPANY 
    
  As shown in the table below, full year net income in 2012 was lower than a year ago, primarily reflecting the non-repeat of the 2011 release of the tax valuation allowance against deferred tax assets.   

Income before income taxes   includes certain items ("special items") that we have grouped into "Personnel and Dealer-Related Items" and "Other Items" to provide useful information to investors about the nature of the special items.  The first category includes items related to our efforts to match production capacity and cost structure to market demand and changing model mix and therefore helps investors track amounts related to those activities.  The second category includes items that we do not generally consider to be indicative of our ongoing operating activities, and therefore allows investors analyzing our pre-tax results to identify certain infrequent significant items that they may wish to exclude when considering the trend of ongoing operating results. 
    
  As detailed in Note 28 of the Notes to the Financial Statements, we allocate special items to a separate reconciling item, as opposed to allocating them among the operating segments and Other Automotive, reflecting the fact that management excludes these items from its review of operating segment results for purposes of measuring segment profitability and allocating resources among the segments.   
       
    38 

    Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   The following table details Automotive sector special items in each category: 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Includes pension-related special items other than the U.S. pension lump-sum program. 
              (b) 
    The special item of $136 million is comprised of the $155 million gain from the consolidation of AAI (see Note 25 of the Notes to the Financial Statements), less a related $19 million adjustment for sales in September 2012 of Ford-brand vehicles produced by AAI. 
       
  Discussion of Automotive sector, Financial Services sector, and total Company results of operations below is on a pre-tax basis and excludes special items unless otherwise specifically noted.  
    
  The chart below details 2012 pre-tax results by sector: 

Total Company 2012 pre-tax profit of $8 billion reflects strong results from both sectors.  Compared with 2011, total Company pre-tax profit declined, primarily explained by the expected reduction in Financial Services. 
    39 

      Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR  
    
  In general, we measure year-over-year change in Automotive pre-tax operating profit for our total Automotive sector and reportable segments using the causal factors listed below, with revenue and cost variances calculated at present-year volume and mix and exchange: 

Market Factors  : 
                
    Volume and Mix -   Primarily measures profit variance from changes in wholesale volumes (at prior-year average margin per unit) driven by changes in industry volume, market share, and dealer stocks, as well as the profit variance resulting from changes in product mix, including mix among vehicle lines and mix of trim levels and options within a vehicle line 
                
    Net Pricing -    Primarily measures profit variance driven by changes in wholesale prices to dealers and marketing incentive programs such as rebate programs, low-rate financing offers, and special lease offers 

Contribution Costs -   Primarily measures profit variance driven by per-unit changes in cost categories that typically vary with volume, such as material costs (including commodity and component costs), warranty expense, and freight and duty costs 

Other Costs -   Primarily measures profit variance driven by absolute change in cost categories that typically do not have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume.  These include mainly structural costs, described below, as well as all other costs, which include items such as litigation costs and costs related to our after-market parts, accessories, and service business.  Structural costs include the following cost categories:  
                
    Manufacturing and Engineering -   consists primarily of costs for hourly and salaried manufacturing- and engineering-related personnel, plant overhead (such as utilities and taxes), new product launch expense, prototype materials, and outside engineering services  
                
    Spending-Related -   consists primarily of depreciation and amortization of our manufacturing and engineering assets, but also includes asset retirements and operating leases   
                
    Advertising and Sales Promotions -   includes costs for advertising, marketing programs, brand promotions, customer mailings and promotional events, and auto shows  
                
    Administrative and Selling -   includes primarily costs for salaried personnel and purchased services related to our staff activities and selling functions, as well as associated information technology costs 
                
    Pension and OPEB -   consists primarily of past service pension cost and other postretirement employee benefit costs  

Exchange -   Primarily measures profit variance driven by one or more of the following:  (i) impact of gains or losses arising from transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the locations, including currency transactions, (ii) effect of remeasuring income, assets, and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries using U.S. dollars as the functional currency, or  (iii) results of our foreign currency hedging activities 

Net Interest and Other -   Primarily measures profit variance driven by changes in our Automotive sector's centrally-managed net interest (primarily interest expense, interest income, and other adjustments) and related fair value market adjustments in our investment portfolio and marketable securities as well as other items not included in the causal factors defined above 
       
    40 

      Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   2012 Compared with 2011 
    
  Total Automotive.    The charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2012 pre-tax results compared with 2011 by causal factor.  Automotive operating margin is defined as Automotive pre-tax results, excluding special items and Other Automotive, divided by Automotive revenue. 

As shown above, all four key metrics were about equal for 2012 compared with 2011, with pre-tax profit primarily reflecting higher net pricing and lower compensation costs (primarily the non-repeat of 2011 UAW ratification bonuses), offset by higher costs, mainly structural, and unfavorable volume and mix.  
    41 

      Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Total costs and expenses   for our Automotive sector for 2012 and 2011 was $121.6 billion and $122.4 billion, respectively, a difference of about $800 million.  An explanation of the changes, as reconciled to our income statement, is shown below (in billions): 

2012  
  Better/(Worse)  
  2011 
      Explanation of change: 

Volume and mix, exchange, and other 
      
    $ 
    3.0 
      
      Contribution costs (a) 

Commodity costs (incl. hedging) 

Material costs excluding commodity costs 
      
    (0.9 
    ) 
      Warranty/Freight 
      
    0.8 
      
      Other costs (a) 

Structural costs 
      
    (1.5 
    ) 
      Other 
      
    (0.2 
    ) 
      Special items 
      
    (0.4 
    ) 
      Total 
      
    $ 
    0.8 

_________ 
           (a) 
    Our key cost change elements are measured primarily at present-year exchange; in addition, costs that vary directly with volume, such as material, freight and warranty costs, are measured at present-year volume and mix.  Excludes special items. 
       
  Results by Automotive Segment.    Details by segment of   Income before income taxes   are shown below for 2012. 
  
   Total Automotive pre-tax profit in 2012 was more than explained by profit from Ford North America.  Ford South America was profitable and Ford Asia Pacific Africa incurred a small loss, while Ford Europe reported a substantial loss.  The loss in Other Automotive was more than explained by net interest expense. 
    
  For 2013, we expect net interest expense to be higher than our fourth quarter 2012 run rate of $147 million, reflecting the increase in Automotive debt associated with our January 2013 issuance (discussed under "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Automotive Sector") and lower interest income. 
    
    42 

      Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Ford North America Segment.    The charts below detail key metrics, and the change in 2012 pre-tax results compared with 2011 by causal factor.  

As shown above, all four key metrics increased for 2012 compared with 2011.  The increase in pre-tax profit for 2012 compared with 2011 primarily reflected favorable market factors, lower contribution costs, and lower compensation costs (primarily the non-repeat of 2011 UAW ratification bonuses), offset partially by higher structural cost.  
    
  For the year, total U.S. market share was down 1.3 percentage points, while U.S. retail share of retail industry declined 0.7 of a percentage point.  The declines largely reflected the discontinuation of the Crown Victoria and Ranger, capacity constraints, and reduced availability associated with our Fusion and Escape model changeovers. 
    
  For 2013, we expect the strong Ford North America performance to continue with higher pre-tax profits than 2012 and an operating margin of about 10%.  This reflects a growing industry, a strong Ford brand, an outstanding product line-up driven by industry-leading refresh rates, continued discipline in matching our production with demand, and a lean cost structure. 
    43 

      Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Ford South America Segment.    The charts below detail key metrics, and the change in 2012 pre-tax results compared with 2011 by causal factor.  

As shown above, all four key metrics decreased for 2012 compared with 2011.  The decrease in pre-tax profit for 2012 compared with 2011 primarily reflects higher costs and unfavorable exchange, primarily in Brazil, offset partially by higher net pricing. 
    
  For 2013, we expect Ford South America results to be about breakeven.  Although results will benefit from new products recently launched or to be launched during the year, the competitive environment and currency risks across the region, especially in Venezuela, are expected to impact our profits adversely.  In addition, government actions to incentivize local production and balance trade are driving trade frictions between South American countries and also with Mexico, resulting in business environment instability and new trade barriers. 
    44 

      Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Ford Europe Segment.      The charts below detail key metrics, and the change in 2012 pre-tax results compared with 2011 by causal factor.  

All four key metrics declined for 2012 compared with 2011.  The decline in wholesales and revenue primarily reflected lower industry sales and market share, and reductions in dealer stocks.  Exchange was also a contributing factor adversely affecting net revenue.  The decline in 2012 pre-tax results compared with 2011 primarily reflected unfavorable market factors. 
    
    Our 2012 results are consistent with our guidance from October 2012, when we announced our European transformation plan.  In 2013, compared with 2012, we expect to benefit from the non-repeat of dealer stock reductions to the degree incurred in 2012.  However, consistent with our guidance, we will incur higher costs associated with restructuring actions, mainly investment in new products, as well as accelerated depreciation and costs to implement our revised manufacturing footprint.  Similar to our successful restructuring of North America, these are the investments we are making to enable the transformation of our European business for profitable growth in the future.   
    
  While our restructuring-related investments this year are consistent with our October 2012 guidance, our outlook for industry volume in 2013 has deteriorated - now expected to be at the lower end of the range of 13 million to 14 million units.  In addition, we are being affected adversely by higher pension costs due to lower discount rates and a stronger euro.  As a result, we now expect a loss of about $2 billion for 2013, compared with prior guidance of a loss about equal to 2012.  The business environment in Europe remains uncertain.  As is our practice, we will continue to monitor the situation and will take further action as necessary to ensure we remain on track to deliver our plan. 
    45 

      Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Ford Asia Pacific Africa Segment.    The charts below detail key metrics, and the change in 2012 pre-tax results compared with 2011 by causal factor.  

As shown above, all four key metrics improved for 2012 compared with 2011.  The improvement in 2012 pre-tax results compared with 2011 is more than explained by higher net pricing, favorable volume and mix, and favorable exchange, offset partially by higher costs associated with new products and investments to support higher volumes and future growth.  
    
  Our market share in the region increased sequentially each quarter during 2012, with fourth quarter 2012 market share at 3.4%, as we continued to benefit from increased capacity and new products.  Further demonstrating the growth we are experiencing in Asia Pacific Africa, since 2009, wholesale volume has about doubled, market share has improved by half a point and net revenue has increased by about two-thirds even though our reported revenue does not include the revenue of unconsolidated joint ventures in China.   
    
    For 2013, we expect Asia Pacific Africa to be about breakeven.  We expect our volume and revenue growth in the region to accelerate, supported by the launch of the all-new Kuga, EcoSport, and refreshed Fiesta across the region, as well as the launch of Mondeo and Explorer in China.  This will be offset in large part by continued strong investment across the region to support our longer-range growth plans. 
    46 

      Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   2011 Compared with 2010 
    
  Total Automotive.    The charts below detail full-year key metrics and the change in full-year 2011 pre-tax operating results compared with full-year 2010 by causal factor.  Automotive operating margin is defined as Automotive pre-tax operating results, excluding special items and Other Automotive, divided by Automotive revenue. 

As shown above, full-year wholesale volume and revenue were higher than the year-ago period, but operating margin  was down seven-tenths of a point; higher commodity costs reduced our margin by 1.8 points. 
    
    Total Automotive pre-tax operating profit in 2011 was $6.3 billion, an increase of $1 billion from 2010.  The increase in earnings is explained by strong performance in market factors, and lower interest expense net of interest income (due primarily to lower debt levels).  This was offset partially by higher contribution costs, higher structural costs (including the effect of higher volumes, new product launches, and investments to support our future product, capacity, and brand-building plans), higher compensation costs in North America, and unfavorable exchange. 

47 

      Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Total costs and expenses   for our Automotive sector for 2011 and 2010 was $122.4 billion and $113.5 billion, respectively, a difference of $8.9 billion.  An explanation of the change as reconciled to our income statement is shown below (in billions): 

_________ 
           (a) 
    Our key cost change elements are measured primarily at present-year exchange; in addition, costs that vary directly with volume, such as material, freight and warranty costs, are measured at present-year volume and mix.  Excludes special items. 
              (b) 
    Special items primarily reflect the non-recurrence of Volvo costs and expenses in 2011. 
       
  Results by Automotive Segment.    Details by segment of   Income before income taxes   are shown below for 2011. 
  
  Total Automotive pre-tax operating profit of $6.3 billion was led by a $6.2 billion profit from Ford North America.  Ford South America earned a solid profit, while Ford Europe was about breakeven, incurring a small loss driven by the economic uncertainty in the region.  Ford Asia Pacific Africa incurred a loss as well, more than explained by the impact of the Japan and Thailand natural disasters.  The loss in Other Automotive was $601 million, reflecting higher interest expense net of interest income and unfavorable fair market valuation adjustments, mainly for our investment in Mazda. 

48 

      Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Ford North America Segment.    The charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2011 pre-tax operating profit compared with 2010 by causal factor.  

As shown above, full-year wholesale volume and revenue improved in 2011 compared with the prior year.  Operating margin declined one-tenth of a percentage point; this includes an adverse impact of 2 points due to higher commodity costs. 
    
  Ford North America reported a pre-tax operating profit of $6.2 billion, compared with a profit of $5.4 billion a year ago. Higher net pricing reflects the strength of our brand and products, a disciplined approach to incentive spending, and our ongoing practice to match production to customer demand.  Favorable volume and mix was more than explained by higher U.S. industry and dealer stocks.  These were offset partially by unfavorable contribution costs reflecting higher commodity costs, higher material costs excluding commodities, and higher warranty and freight costs. Other costs reflect unfavorable structural costs. 

49 

      Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Ford South America Segment.    The charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2011 pre-tax operating profit compared with 2010 by causal factor.  

As shown above, full-year wholesales and revenue increased compared with a year ago, while operating margin declined.  
    
  Ford South America reported a pre-tax operating profit of $861 million, compared with a profit of $1 billion a year ago. The decline in earnings is more than explained by higher structural costs (driven primarily by local inflation), higher contribution costs (more than explained by commodity costs), and unfavorable exchange, offset partially by favorable net pricing and volume and mix. 

50 

      Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Ford Europe Segment.    The charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2011 pre-tax operating profit compared with 2010 by causal factor.  

As shown above, full-year wholesale volume and revenue improved in 2011 compared with the prior year.  Operating margin declined in 2011, with higher commodity costs contributing a negative 1.5 points to Europe's full-year margin.   
    
  Ford Europe reported a pre-tax operating loss of $27 million, compared with a profit of $182 million a year ago.  The decline in results is more than explained by higher commodity costs and material costs excluding commodities, as well as unfavorable exchange.  These costs were offset partially by higher net pricing and favorable volume and mix.  Other reflects our continued investment in the Craiova facility in Romania in preparation for the production volume ramp-up in 2012, as well as lower parts and accessories profits. 

51 

      Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Ford Asia Pacific Africa Segment.    The charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2011 pre-tax operating profit compared with 2010 by causal factor.  

As shown above, wholesales and revenue increased compared with a year ago, while operating margin declined. 
    
  Ford Asia Pacific Africa reported a pre-tax operating loss of $92 million, compared with a profit of $189 million a year ago.  The decline in results reflects higher costs (primarily structural costs in support of Ford Asia Pacific Africa growth plans), unfavorable volume and mix (which includes the impact of events in Japan and Thailand), and unfavorable exchange, offset partially by higher net pricing. 

52 

      Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR 
    
  2012 Compared with 2011 
    
  As shown in the total Company discussion above, we present our Financial Services sector results in two segments, Ford Credit and Other Financial Services.  Ford Credit, in turn, has two segments, North America and International. 
    
  Ford Credit.    The chart below details the change in 2012 pre-tax profit compared with 2011 by causal factor: 

The decline in pre-tax profits is more than explained by fewer leases being terminated, which resulted in fewer vehicles sold at a gain and lower financing margin, as higher yielding assets originated in prior years run off.  
    
  Results of Ford Credit  '  s operations and unallocated risk management for the years ended December 31 are shown below (in millions): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Consists of gains and losses related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives primarily related to movements in interest rates. 
       
  The full-year decrease in Ford Credit  '  s North America segment pre-tax earnings is more than explained by fewer lease terminations, which resulted in fewer vehicles sold at a gain, and lower financing margin as higher yielding assets originated in prior years run off.  The full-year decrease in its International segment pre-tax results is more than explained by the non-recurrence of 2011 foreign currency translation adjustments related to the discontinuation of financing in Australia, lower volume, and unfavorable lease residual performance, offset partially by higher financing margin. 

53 

      Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Ford Credit's receivables, including finance receivables and operating leases at December 31 were as follows (in billions):   

__________ 
   $35.8 billion, respectively, and non-consumer receivables before allowance for credit losses of $21.6 billion, $19.8 billion, and $18.7 billion, respectively, that have been sold for legal purposes in securitization transactions but continue to be reported in Ford Credit's consolidated financial statements.  In addition, at December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, includes net investment in operating leases before allowance for credit losses of $6.3 billion, $6.4 billion, and $6.2 billion, respectively, that have been included in securitization transactions but continue to be reported in Ford Credit's financial statements.  The receivables are available only for payment of the debt and other obligations issued or arising in the securitization transactions; they are not available to pay Ford Credit's other obligations or the claims of its other creditors.  Ford Credit holds the right to the excess cash flows not needed to pay the debt and other obligations issued or arising in each of these securitization transactions.  See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding securitization transactions. 
            (c) 
    Excludes unearned interest supplements related to finance receivables. 
       
  Receivables at December 31, 2012 increased from year-end 2011, primarily driven by increases in wholesale receivables and net investment in operating leases. 

54 

      Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Credit Losses.    The charts below detail (i) annual trends of charge-offs (credit losses, net of recoveries), (ii) loss-to-receivables ("LTR") ratios (charge-offs divided by the average amount of receivables outstanding for the period, excluding the allowance for credit losses (also referred to as credit loss reserves) and unearned interest supplements related to finance receivables), (iii) credit loss reserves, and (iv) Ford Credit's credit loss reserves as a percentage of end-of-period ("EOP") receivables: 
  
  Ford Credit's charge-offs are down from 2011, primarily reflecting lower repossessions in the United States and lower losses in all international regions, offset partially by lower recoveries in the United States.  The LTR ratio is about one-third lower than in 2011, and is the lowest since Ford Credit started tracking LTRs more than thirty years ago. 
    
  Reserves and reserves as a percent of EOP receivables are both lower than a year ago reflecting the decrease in charge-offs.  The allowance for credit losses is estimated using a combination of models and management judgment, and is based on such factors as portfolio quality, historical loss performance, and receivable levels.  
    
  In purchasing retail finance and lease contracts, Ford Credit uses a proprietary scoring system that classifies contracts using several factors, such as credit bureau information, credit bureau scores (e.g., FICO score), and contract characteristics.  In addition to Ford Credit's proprietary scoring system, it considers other factors, such as employment history, financial stability, and capacity to pay.  At December 31, 2012 and 2011, Ford Credit classified between 5% - 6% of the outstanding U.S. retail finance and lease contracts in its portfolio as high risk at contract inception.  For additional discussion, see "Critical Accounting Estimates - Allowance for Credit Losses" below. 
    
  Residual Risk.    Ford Credit is exposed to residual risk on operating leases and similar balloon payment products where the customer may return the financed vehicle to Ford Credit.  Residual risk is the possibility that the amount Ford Credit obtains from returned vehicles will be less than its estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle.  Ford Credit estimates the expected residual value by evaluating recent auction values, return volumes for its leased vehicles, industry-wide used vehicle prices, marketing incentive plans, and vehicle quality data.  For additional discussion, see "Critical Accounting Estimates   -   Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases" below. 
    
  North America Retail Operating Lease Experience 
    
  Ford Credit uses various statistics to monitor its residual risk: 

Placement volume measures the number of leases Ford Credit purchases in a given period; 
                
    Termination volume measures the number of vehicles for which the lease has ended in the given period; and 
                
    Return volume reflects the number of vehicles returned to Ford Credit by customers at lease-end. 
       55 

      Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Ford Credit's North America segment accounted for 98% of its total operating leases at December 31, 2012.  The following table shows operating lease placement, termination, and return volumes for this segment for the years ending December 31 (in thousands, except for percentages): 

In 2012, placement volumes were up 38,000     units compared with 2011, primarily reflecting higher industry sales.  Termination volumes decreased by 120,000 units compared with last year, reflecting lower placement volumes in 2009.  Return volumes decreased 68,000 units compared with last year, primarily reflecting lower terminations. 
    
  U.S. Ford and Lincoln Brand Operating Lease Experience.    The following chart shows annual return volumes and auction values at incurred vehicle mix for vehicles returned in the respective periods.  In 2012, Ford Credit's U.S. lease originations represented about 15% of total U.S. retail sales of Ford and Lincoln brand vehicles, and the U.S. operating 
  lease portfolio accounted for about 89% of Ford Credit's total investment in operating leases at December 31, 2012. 
  
  Ford Credit  '  s lease return volumes in 2012 were about 30% lower than 2011, reflecting primarily the lower lease placements in 2009.  Its 2012 lease return rate was 62%, up 6 percentage points compared with 2011  ,   reflecting a higher mix of 24 month contracts.  
    
  In 2012, Ford Credit's auction values for vehicles subject to 36-month leases continued to increase, up $995 per unit from 2011.  The increase primarily reflects vehicles with higher content, including a higher mix of Lincolns.  
    
  Ford Credit's worldwide net investment in operating leases was $14.7 billion at the end of 2012, up from $11.1 billion in 2011. 
    
    56 

      Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   2011 Compared with 2010 
    
  The chart below details the change in 2011 pre-tax profit compared with 2010 by causal factor. 
  
  The decline in Ford Credit's pre-tax profit reflects fewer leases being terminated and the related vehicles sold at a gain, and lower credit loss reserve reductions. 
    
    LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 
    
  Automotive Sector 
    
  Our Automotive liquidity strategy includes ensuring that we have sufficient liquidity available with a high degree of certainty throughout the business cycle by generating cash from operations and maintaining access to other sources of funding.  For a discussion of risks to our liquidity, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors," as well as Note 31 of the Notes to the Financial Statements regarding commitments and contingencies that could impact our liquidity. 
    
  Gross Cash.    Automotive gross cash includes cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, net of any securities-in-transit.  Gross cash at December 31 was as follows (in billions): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    The purchase or sale of marketable securities for which the cash settlement was not made by period-end and for which there was a payable or receivable recorded on the balance sheet at period-end. 
       
  Our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are held primarily in highly liquid investments, which provide for anticipated and unanticipated cash needs.  Our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily include U.S. Department of Treasury obligations, federal agency securities, bank time deposits with investment-grade institutions, corporate investment-grade securities, commercial paper rated A-1/P-1 or higher, and debt obligations of a select group of non-U.S. governments, non-U.S. governmental agencies, and supranational institutions.  The average maturity of these investments ranges from 90 days to up to one year, and is adjusted based on market conditions and liquidity needs.  We monitor our cash levels and average maturity on a daily basis.  Within our Automotive gross cash portfolio, we currently do not hold investments in government obligations of Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, or Spain, nor did we hold any at      December 31, 2012. 
    
  In managing our business, we classify changes in Automotive gross cash into operating-related and other items (which includes the impact of certain special items, contributions to funded pension plans, certain tax-related transactions,  
    57 

    Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   acquisitions and divestitures, capital transactions with the Financial Services sector, dividends paid to shareholders, and other -- primarily financing-related).  Our key liquidity metrics are operating-related cash flow (which best represents the ability of our Automotive operations to generate cash), Automotive gross cash, and Automotive liquidity.  Automotive gross cash and liquidity as of the dates shown were as follows (in billions):   

We believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below is useful to investors because it includes in operating-related cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our Automotive operating activities (e.g., capital spending) and excludes cash flow elements that we do not consider to be related to the ability of our operations to generate cash.  This differs from a GAAP cash flow statement  and differs from   Net     cash provided by/(used in) operating activities  , the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. 
    
  Changes in Automotive gross cash are summarized below (in billions): 

_________ 
           (a) 
    Working capital comprised of changes in receivables, inventory, and trade payables. 
              (b) 
    Primarily expense and payment timing differences for items such as pension and OPEB, compensation, marketing, and warranty, as well as additional factors, such as the impact of tax payments. 
              (c) 
    Primarily distributions and tax payments received from Ford Credit. 
              (d) 
    2012 includes cash and marketable securities resulting from the consolidation of AAI. 
       
  With respect to "Changes in working capital," in general we carry relatively low trade receivables compared to our trade payables because the majority of our Automotive wholesales are financed (primarily by Ford Credit) immediately upon sale of vehicles to dealers, which generally occurs at the time the vehicles are gate-released shortly after being produced.  In addition, our inventories are lean because we build to order, not for inventory.  In contrast, our Automotive trade payables are based primarily on industry-standard production supplier payment terms generally ranging between 30 days to 45 days.  As a result, our cash flow tends to improve as wholesale volumes increase, but can deteriorate significantly when wholesale volumes drop sharply.  In addition, these working capital balances generally are subject to seasonal changes that can impact cash flow.  For example, we typically experience cash flow timing differences associated with inventories and payables due to our annual summer and December shutdown periods, when production, and therefore inventories and wholesale volumes, are usually at their lowest levels, while payables continue to come due and be paid.  The net impact of this typically results in cash outflows from changes in our working capital balances during these shutdown periods.       
    58 

    Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

     Shown below is a reconciliation between financial statement   Net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities   and operating-related cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), as of the dates shown (in billions): 

Credit Agreement  .  Lenders under our Credit Agreement     have commitments totaling $9.3 billion in a revolving credit facility that will mature on November     30,     2015, and commitments totaling an additional $307 million in a revolving credit facility that will mature on November 30, 2013.  Our Credit Agreement is free of material adverse change clauses, restrictive financial covenants (for example, debt-to-equity limitations and minimum net worth requirements) and credit rating triggers that could limit our ability to obtain funding.  The Credit Agreement contains a liquidity covenant that requires us to maintain a minimum of $4 billion in the aggregate of domestic cash, cash equivalents, and loaned and marketable securities and/or availability under the revolving credit facilities.      On May 22, 2012, the collateral securing our Credit Agreement was automatically released upon our senior, unsecured, long-term debt being upgraded to investment grade by Fitch and Moody's.      If our senior, unsecured, long-term debt does not maintain at least two investment grade ratings, the guarantees of certain subsidiaries will be reinstated. 
    
  At December 31, 2012, the utilized portion of the revolving credit facilities was $93 million, representing amounts utilized as letters of credit.  Less than 1% of the commitments in the revolving credit facilities are from financial institutions that are based in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, and Spain. 
    
  U.S. Department of Energy ("DOE") Advanced Technology Vehicle Manufacturer ("ATVM") Incentive Program.    In September 2009, we entered into a Loan Arrangement and Reimbursement Agreement ("Arrangement Agreement") with the DOE, pursuant to which the DOE agreed to (i) arrange a 13-year multi-draw term loan facility (the "Facility") under the ATVM Program in the aggregate principal amount of up to $5.9 billion, (ii) designate us as a borrower under the ATVM Program and (iii) cause the Federal Financing Bank to enter into a Note Purchase Agreement for the purchase of notes to be issued by us evidencing such loans.  In August 2012, the Facility was fully drawn with $5.9 billion outstanding.  We began repayment in September 2012 and at December 31, 2012, an aggregate of $5.6 billion was outstanding.  The proceeds of the ATVM loan have been used to finance certain costs for fuel-efficient, advanced-technology vehicles.  The principal amount of the ATVM loan bears interest at a blended rate based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve at the time each draw was made (with the weighted-average interest rate on all such draws being about 2.3% per annum).      The ATVM loan is repayable in equal quarterly installments of $148 million, which began in September 2012 and will end in June 2022. 
    
  European Investment Bank ("EIB") Credit Facility.    On July 12, 2010, Ford Motor Company Limited, our operating subsidiary in the United Kingdom ("Ford of Britain"), entered into a credit facility for an aggregate amount of    450 million   (equivalent to $729 million at December 31, 2012) with the EIB.  Proceeds of loans drawn under the facility are being used to fund costs for the research and development of fuel-efficient engines and commercial vehicles with lower emissions, and related upgrades to an engine manufacturing plant.  The facility was fully drawn in the third quarter of 2010, and Ford of Britain had outstanding   $729 million   of loans at   December 31, 2012  .  The loans are   five  -year, non-amortizing loans secured by a guarantee from the U.K. government for   80%   of the outstanding principal amount and cash collateral from Ford of Britain equal to approximately   20%   of the outstanding principal amount, and bear interest at a fixed rate of   3.9%   per annum excluding a commitment fee of   0.30%   to the U.K. government.  Ford of Britain has pledged substantially all of its fixed assets, receivables and inventory to the U.K. government as collateral, and we have guaranteed Ford of Britain's obligations to the U.K. government related to the government's guarantee. 
    
    59 

    Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Export-Import Bank of the United States ("Ex-Im") and Private Export Funding Corporation ("PEFCO") Secured Revolving Loan.    At December 31, 2012, this working capital facility, which supports vehicle exports from the United States, was fully drawn at $300 million.  The facility will renew annually until June 15, 2015, provided that no payment or bankruptcy default exists and Ex-Im continues to have a perfected security interest in the collateral, which consists of vehicles in transit in the United States to be exported to Canada, Mexico, and other select markets. 
    
  Other Automotive Credit Facilities.    At December 31, 2012, we had $901     million of local credit facilities available to non-U.S. Automotive affiliates, of which $140 million had been utilized.  Of the $901 million of committed credit facilities,        $345 million expires in 2013, $196 million expires in 2014, $318 million expires in 2015, and $42 million thereafter. 
    
  Net Cash.    Our Automotive sector net cash calculation as of the dates shown was as follows (in billions): 

Total debt at   December 31, 2012   increased by about $1.2 billion from   December 31, 2011  , primarily reflecting the additional drawdowns of low-cost loans for advanced technology vehicle development and our renminbi-denominated debt issuance in Hong Kong. 
    
  Not shown in the table above is the $2 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.75% Notes due January 15, 2043 we issued in January 2013.  With this issuance we took advantage of favorable market conditions to issue low-cost, long-term debt, the proceeds of which have been used, in part, to redeem approximately $600 million principal amount of 7.50% Notes due June 10, 2043, with the remainder to be contributed to our funded pension plans during 2013 to support our pension de-risking actions (discussed below).  This action is consistent with our mid-decade target of Automotive debt levels at about $10 billion. 
    
  Pension Plan Contributions and Strategy  .  Worldwide, our defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by $18.7 billion at December 31, 2012, compared with being underfunded by $15.4 billion at December 31, 2011.  The deterioration is more than explained by sharply lower discount rates, with the U.S. weighted-average discount rate declining to 3.84% at the end of 2012 from 4.64% at the end of 2011.  
    
  Our long-term strategy is to reduce the risk of our funded defined benefit pension plans, including minimizing the volatility of the value of our pension assets relative to pension liabilities and the need for unplanned use of capital resources to fund the plans. The strategy will reduce balance sheet, cash flow, and income exposures and, in turn, reduce our risk profile. The key elements of this strategy include: 

Limiting liability growth in our defined benefit plans by closing participation to new participants;  
                
    Reducing plan deficits through discretionary cash contributions;    
                
    Progressively re-balancing assets to more fixed income investments, with a target asset allocation to be reached over the next several years of about 80% fixed income investments and 20% growth assets, which will provide a better matching of plan assets to the characteristics of the liabilities, thereby reducing our net exposure; and   
                
    Taking other strategic actions to reduce pension liabilities, such as the voluntary lump sum payout program started in 2012 for U.S. salaried retirees.  
       
  In 2012, we contributed $3.4 billion to our worldwide funded pension plans, an increase of $2.3 billion compared with 2011.  During 2013, we expect to contribute from Automotive cash and cash equivalents about $5 billion to our worldwide funded plans (including discretionary contributions of about $3.4 billion, largely to our U.S. plans) and to make $400 million of benefit payments to participants in unfunded plans, for a total of about $5.4 billion. 
    
  The voluntary lump sum payout program we started in 2012 will continue through 2013.  To date, eligible retirees have accepted lump sum offers that have resulted in about $1.2 billion of our pension obligations being settled. 
    
  Based on current assumptions and regulations, we do not expect to have a legal requirement to fund our major U.S. pension plans in 2013. 
    60 

    Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Based on present planning assumptions for long-term asset returns, a normalization of discount rates and planned cash contributions, we expect our global funded pension obligations to be fully funded by mid-decade, with variability on a plan-by-plan basis. 
    
  For a detailed discussion of our pension plans, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
    
  Liquidity Sufficiency  .  One of the four key priorities of our One Ford plan is to finance our plan and improve our balance sheet, while at the same time having resources available to grow our business.  The actions described above are consistent with this priority.  Based on our planning assumptions, we believe that we have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to continue to invest in new products that customers want and value, transform and grow our business, pay our debts and obligations as and when they come due, pay a sustainable dividend, and provide protection within an uncertain global economic environment.  We will continue to look for opportunities to strengthen our balance sheet, primarily by working to ensure our underlying business generates positive Automotive operating-related cash flow, even as we continue to invest in the growth of our business. 
    
    Financial Services Sector 
    
  Ford Credit 
    
  Funding Strategy.    Ford Credit's funding strategy remains focused on diversification and it plans to continue accessing a variety of markets, channels, and investors.  Ford Credit completed its full-year 2012 funding plan, issuing over $23 billion of public term funding.  Ford Credit  '  s public unsecured issuance was over $9 billion, including more than $700 million issued under the Ford Credit U.S. Retail Notes program.  Ford Credit also issued its first public investment grade unsecured debt transaction since 2005.  Additionally,  Ford Credit launched an unsecured commercial paper program in the United States, which has grown to about $1.7 billion.   
    
  Ford Credit's liquidity remains strong and it ended the year with $19.7 billion of available liquidity and $31.5 billion of committed capacity, compared with about $17 billion and $33 billion at December 31, 2011, respectively.  
    
  Ford Credit  '  s funding plan is subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond its control, including disruption in the capital markets that could impact both unsecured debt and asset-backed securities issuance and the effects of regulatory reform efforts on the financial markets.      Potential impacts of industry events and regulation on Ford Credit  '  s ability to access debt and derivatives markets, or renew its committed liquidity programs in sufficient amounts and at competitive rates, represents another risk to its funding plan.  As a result of such events or regulation, Ford Credit may need to reduce new originations of receivables  ,   thereby reducing its ongoing profits and adversely affecting its ability to support the sale of our vehicles  .    Ford Credit is focused on maintaining liquidity levels that meet its business and funding requirement through economic cycles. 
    
  Funding.    Ford Credit requires substantial funding in the normal course of business.  Its funding requirements are driven mainly by the need to:  (i) purchase retail installment sale contracts and retail lease contracts to support the sale of Ford products, which are influenced by Ford-sponsored special-rate financing programs that are available exclusively through Ford Credit, (ii) provide wholesale financing and capital financing for Ford dealers, and (iii) repay its debt obligations. 
    
  Ford Credit's funding sources include primarily securitization transactions (including other structured financings) and unsecured debt.  Ford Credit issues both short- and long-term debt that is held by both institutional and retail investors, with long-term debt having an original maturity of more than 12 months.  Ford Credit sponsors a number of securitization programs that can be structured to provide both short- and long-term funding through institutional investors in the United States and international capital markets. 
    
  Ford Credit obtains short-term unsecured funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under its Ford Interest Advantage program and by issuing unsecured commercial paper in the United States, Europe, Mexico, and other international markets.  At December 31, 2012, the principal amount outstanding of Ford Interest Advantage notes, which may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holders thereof without restriction, was $4.9 billion.  At December 31, 2012, the principal amount outstanding of Ford Credit's unsecured commercial paper was about $1.7 billion, which primarily represents issuance under its commercial paper program in the United States.  Ford Credit does not hold reserves specifically to fund the payment of any of its unsecured short-term funding obligations.  Instead, Ford Credit maintains multiple sources of liquidity, including cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities), unused committed liquidity programs, excess securitizable assets, and committed and uncommitted credit facilities, which should be sufficient to meet Ford Credit's unsecured short-term funding obligations. 
    61 

    Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Funding Portfolio.    The chart below details the trends in the funding of Ford Credit's managed receivables: 
  
  __________ 
           (a) 
    The Ford Interest Advantage program consists of Ford Credit's floating rate demand notes. 
              (b) 
    Obligations issued in securitization transactions that are payable only out of collections on the underlying securitized assets and related enhancements. 
              (c) 
    Excludes marketable securities related to insurance activities. 
       
  At year-end 2012, managed receivables were $91 billion and Ford Credit ended the year with about $11 billion in cash.  Securitized funding was 48% of managed receivables, down from 55% at year-end 2011.  This reflects a greater mix of unsecured debt given Ford Credit's improved credit spreads and the mandatory exchange of $2.5 billion of asset-backed Ford Upgrade Exchanged Linked ("FUEL") notes for unsecured notes of Ford Credit, which was triggered by the upgrade to investment grade of Ford Credit's long-term, unsecured debt by two credit rating agencies during the second quarter of 2012. 
    
  Ford Credit is projecting 2013 year-end managed receivables in the range of $95 billion to $105 billion and securitized funding is expected to represent about 42% to 47% of total managed receivables.  It is Ford Credit's expectation that the securitized funding as a percent of managed receivables will decline going forward. 
    
  Public Term Funding Plan.    The following table illustrates Ford Credit's planned issuances for full-year 2013, and its public term funding issuances in 2012, 2011, and 2010 (in billions): 
   
 __________ 
     
  In 2012, Ford Credit completed over $23 billion of public term funding in the United States, Canada, and Europe, including over $9 billion of unsecured debt and $14 billion of securitizations. 
    
  For 2013, Ford Credit projects full-year public term funding in the range of $17 billion to $24 billion, consisting of $7     billion to $10     billion of unsecured debt and $10 billion to $14 billion of public securitizations.  Through February     18,     2013, Ford Credit completed about $4 billion of public term funding transactions in the United States, Canada, and Europe, including about $2     billion of unsecured debt and $2     billion of securitizations.  
    62 

    Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Liquidity.    The following table illustrates Ford Credit's liquidity programs and utilization (in billions): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    FCAR and conduits subject to availability of sufficient assets and ability to obtain derivatives to manage interest rate risk; FCAR commercial paper must be supported by bank lines equal to at least 100% of the principal amount; conduits include committed securitization programs.   
              (b) 
    Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excludes marketable securities related to insurance activities). 
              (c) 
    Securitization cash is to be used only to support on-balance sheet securitization transactions. 
       
  At December     31, 2012, Ford Credit had $42.4 billion of committed capacity and cash diversified across a variety of markets and platforms.  The utilization of its liquidity totaled $21.2 billion at year-end, compared with $25.2 billion at year-end 2011.  The decrease of $4 billion reflects lower usage of its private conduits, FCAR outstanding commercial paper balance, and securitized cash.  
    
  Ford Credit ended 2012 with gross liquidity of $21.2 billion.  Capacity in excess of eligible receivables decreased to $1.5 billion.  This provides a funding source for future originations and flexibility to transfer capacity among markets and asset classes where most needed.  Total liquidity available for use continues to remain strong at $19.7     billion at year-end 2012, $2.6 billion higher than year-end 2011.  Ford Credit is focused on maintaining liquidity levels that meet its business and funding requirements through economic cycles. 
    
  Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities.      At December     31, 2012, Ford Credit's cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities) totaled $10.9 billion, compared with $12.1 billion at year-end 2011.      In the normal course of its funding activities, Ford Credit may generate more proceeds than are required for its immediate funding needs.      These excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid investments, which provide liquidity for its short-term funding needs and give it flexibility in the use of its other funding programs.      Ford Credit's cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are held primarily in highly liquid investments, which provide for anticipated and unanticipated cash needs.      Ford Credit's cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities) primarily include U.S. Treasury obligations, federal agency securities, bank time deposits with investment-grade institutions and non-U.S. central banks, corporate investment-grade securities, A-1/P-1 (or higher) rated commercial paper, debt obligations of a select group of non-U.S. governments, non-U.S. government agencies, supranational institutions and money market funds that carry the highest possible ratings.      Ford Credit currently does not hold cash, cash equivalents, or marketable securities consisting of investments in government obligations of Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, or Spain, nor did it hold any at December 31, 2012.  The average maturity of these investments ranges from 90 days to up to one year, and is adjusted based on market conditions and liquidity needs.      Ford Credit monitors its cash levels and average maturity on a daily basis.      Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities include amounts to be used only to support Ford Credit's securitization transactions of $3.0 billion and $3.7     billion at December     31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
    
  Ford Credit's substantial liquidity and cash balance have provided the opportunity to selectively call and repurchase its unsecured and asset-backed debt through market transactions.  For full-year 2012, Ford Credit repurchased and called an aggregate principal amount of $628 million of its unsecured and asset-backed debt. 
    63 

    Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Credit Facilities and Committed Liquidity Programs.    See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding credit facilities and committed liquidity programs for Ford Credit.  While there is a risk of non-renewal of some of Ford Credit  '  s committed liquidity programs, which could lead to a reduction in the size of these programs and/or higher costs, Ford Credit  '  s capacity in excess of eligible receivables would enable it to absorb some reductions.  Ford Credit  '  s ability to obtain funding under these programs is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs as well as its ability to obtain interest rate hedging arrangements for certain securitization transactions. 
    
  Balance Sheet Liquidity Profile.    Ford Credit defines its balance sheet liquidity profile as the cumulative maturities, including the impact of prepayments, of its finance receivables, investment in operating leases, and cash, less the cumulative debt maturities over upcoming annual periods.  The following chart shows its cumulative maturities for the periods presented at December     31,     2012: 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Includes finance receivables net of unearned income, investment in operating leases net of accumulated depreciation, cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excludes marketable securities related to insurance activities). 
              (b) 
    Retail and lease ABS are treated as amortizing immediately to match the underlying assets. 
              (c) 
    Includes all of the wholesale ABS term and conduit maturities of $8 billion that otherwise contractually extend to 2014 and beyond. 
       
  Ford Credit  '  s balance sheet is inherently liquid because of the short-term nature of its finance receivables, investment in operating leases, and cash.  Maturities of investment in operating leases consist primarily of rental payments attributable to depreciation over the remaining life of the lease and the expected residual value at lease termination.  Maturities of finance receivables and investment in operating leases in the chart above include expected prepayments for Ford Credit's retail installment sale contracts and investment in operating leases. The 2013 finance receivables maturities in the chart above also include all of the wholesale receivables maturities that are otherwise extending beyond 2013.  The chart above also reflects the following adjustments to debt maturities to match all of the asset-backed debt maturities with the underlying asset maturities: 

The 2013 maturities include all of the wholesale securitization transactions  ,   even if the maturities extend beyond 2013; and 
                
    Retail securitization transactions under certain committed liquidity programs are assumed to amortize immediately rather than amortizing after the expiration of the commitment period. 
       
  Leverage.    Ford Credit uses leverage, or the debt-to-equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including evaluating and establishing pricing for retail, wholesale, and lease financing, and assessing its capital structure.  Ford Credit refers to its shareholder's interest as equity.   
    
    64 

    Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   The following table shows the calculation of Ford Credit's financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): 

The following table shows the calculation of Ford Credit's managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Excludes marketable securities related to insurance activities. 
              (b) 
    Primarily related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives due to movements in interest rates.  Adjustments to debt are related to designated fair value hedges and adjustments to equity are related to retained earnings. 
              (c) 
    Equals total adjusted debt over total adjusted equity. 
       
  Ford Credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business.  Ford Credit deducts cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities) because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations and amounts to support on-balance sheet securitization transactions.  Ford Credit makes derivative accounting adjustments to its assets, debt, and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments Ford Credit uses in connection with its term-debt issuances and securitization transactions.  The derivative accounting adjustments related to these instruments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates.  Ford Credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature.  As a result, Ford Credit excludes the impact of these derivative accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates.   
    
  Ford Credit plans its managed leverage by considering prevailing market conditions and the risk characteristics of its business.  At December     31,     2012, Ford Credit's managed leverage was 8.3:1, unchanged from December     31,     2011.  Ford Credit's guidance for managed leverage in 2013 is to be within the range of 8:1 to 9:1.  In 2012, Ford Credit paid $600     million in distributions to its parent.   
    
    Total Company 
    
  Equity.    At   December 31, 2012  ,   Total equity attributable to Ford Motor Company   was $15.9     billion, an increase of about $900 million compared with   December 31, 2011  .  The increase is more than explained by favorable changes in   Retained earnings  , related to full-year 2012 net income attributable to Ford Motor Company of $5.7 billion offset partially by cash dividends declared of $573 million.  The favorable changes in   Retained earnings   are offset partially by unfavorable changes in   Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)   of $4.1 billion (more than explained by unfavorable pension and OPEB adjustments) and treasury stock purchases of $126 million.  
    
  Credit Ratings.    Our short-term and long-term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("NRSROs") by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission: 

DBRS Limited ("DBRS"); 
                
    Fitch, Inc. ("Fitch"); 
                
    Moody's Investors Service, Inc. ("Moody's"); and 
                
    Standard   Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. ("S P"). 
       65 

    Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   In several markets, locally-recognized rating agencies also rate us.  A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with a corporate entity or particular securities issued by that entity.  Rating agencies' ratings of us are based on information provided by us and other sources.  Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold securities, and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency.  Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk and, therefore, ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency.  Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets.   
    
  There have been no ratings actions taken by these NRSROs since the filing of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2012.  
    
  The following chart summarizes certain of the credit ratings and outlook presently assigned by these four NRSROs:                                       
    NRSRO RATINGS 
        
    Ford 
      
    Ford Credit 
        
    Issuer Default/ 
  Corporate/ 
  Issuer Rating 
      
    Long-Term 
  Senior 
  Unsecured 
      
    Outlook / 
  Trend 
      
    Long-Term 
  Senior 
  Unsecured 
      
    Short-Term 
  Unsecured 
      
    Outlook / 
  Trend 
      DBRS 
    BBB (low) 
      
    BBB (low) 
      
    Stable 
      
    BBB (low) 
      
    R-3 
      
    Stable 
      Fitch 
    BBB- 
      
    BBB- 
      
    Stable 
      
    BBB- 
      
    F3 
      
    Stable 
      Moody's 
    N/A 
      
    Baa3 
      
    Stable 
      
    Baa3 
      
    P-3 
      
    Stable 
      S P 
    BB+ 
      
    BB+ 
      
    Positive 
      
    BB+ * 
      
    NR 
      
    Positive 

__________ 
           * 
    S P assigns FCE a long-term senior unsecured rating of BBB-, maintaining a one notch differential versus Ford Credit. 

OUTLOOK  
    
  Our One Ford plan - to aggressively restructure to operate profitably at current demand and changing model mix, accelerate development of new products our customers want and value, finance our plan and improve our balance sheet, and work together effectively as one team leveraging our global assets - continues to be the guiding strategy for our business.   
    
  The following summarizes results against planning assumptions and key metrics established at the beginning of 2012: 

__________       
           (a) 
    Includes medium and heavy trucks.   
              (b) 
    For the 19 markets we track. 
              (c) 
    Excludes special items; Automotive operating margin equal to Automotive pre-tax results excluding Other Automotive divided by Automotive revenue. 
              (d) 
    Structural cost changes are measured primarily at present-year exchange, and exclude special items and discontinued operations. 
       
    66 

    Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Our projected vehicle production is as follows (in thousands): 

__________       
  (a)  Includes production of Ford and JMC brand vehicles to be sold by our unconsolidated affiliates. 
    
  The year-over-year increase in first quarter planned production reflects higher volumes in all regions except Europe.   Planned production is consistent with our disciplined strategy to match production to consumer demand.   
    
  We expect 2013 global economic growth to be in the range of 2% - 3%, with global industry sales in the 80 million - 85 million unit range.  We expect U.S. economic growth in the range of 2% - 2.5% for the year, with industry sales supported by replacement demand given the higher-than-normal average age of vehicles on the road.  In South America, Brazil's easing of fiscal and monetary policies, such as sales tax reductions and policy interest rate cuts to historic lows, are setting the stage for renewed economic growth.  On the other hand, economic and political uncertainty and risk are increasing in Venezuela.  In Europe, we expect weak economic conditions to continue into 2013, especially in countries undergoing fiscal austerity programs.  Recent policy moves are positive steps, but we do not believe they are enough to resolve the economic crisis and restore business and consumer confidence.  In Asia Pacific Africa, the latest data suggest economic recovery is underway in China, while the economic slowdown in India seems to be bottoming out.  Although countries are at different stages of the economic cycle, better growth is expected in 2013 across the Asia Pacific Africa region.  Overall, despite challenges, we expect global economic growth to continue in 2013. 
    
  Based on the current economic environment, our planning assumptions and key metrics for 2013 include the following: 

__________       
           (a) 
    Includes medium and heavy trucks.   
              (b) 
    For the 19 markets we track. 
              (c) 
    Includes Ford and JMC brand vehicles sold in China by our unconsolidated affiliates. 
              (d) 
    Excludes special items; Automotive operating margin equal to Automotive pre-tax results excluding Other Automotive divided by Automotive revenue. 
          
  We project industry volume for the United States and China will increase in 2013 compared with 2012, while we expect industry volume for the 19 markets we track in Europe to weaken to the lower end of the range above in 2013 compared with 2012.  We expect share for the markets we track in Europe to be about the same in 2013 as in 2012 and we expect our market share in the United States and China to increase, reflecting our strong products and brand, as well as an expanded product portfolio (which also now covers more vehicle segments in markets such as China).  We also expect positive net pricing to continue in 2013, and we expect quality to improve.   
    
    67 

    Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   We expect total Company pre-tax profit in 2013 to be about equal to strong results in 2012, and Automotive operating margin to be about equal to or lower than 2012.  Projected 2013 operating margin reflects projected revenue increases, partially offset by the impact of structural cost increases to support higher volumes, new product launches, and growth plans, as well as more than $1 billion of non-cash structural cost increases.  The non-cash structural cost increases include higher pension expense due to historically low discount rates, cessation of favorable amortization associated with previous benefit plan changes, and higher depreciation reflecting accelerated depreciation associated with our European restructuring and cessation of low depreciation resulting from prior asset impairments in North America.  We expect Automotive operating-related cash flow to be higher in 2013 than 2012, notwithstanding higher planned capital spending of about $7 billion.   
    
  Turning to the regions, we expect strong Ford North America performance to continue, with higher pre-tax profits than 2012 and operating margin of about 10% for 2013.  Our forecast reflects growing industry volume, our strong Ford brand, our outstanding product line-up driven by industry-leading refresh rates, our continued discipline in matching production with demand, and our lean cost structure.  Going forward, we will continue to work to sustain and grow our strong North American operations.      
       
  For 2013, we expect Ford South America results to be about breakeven.  Although results will benefit from new products recently launched or to be launched during the year, the competitive environment and currency risks across the region, especially in Venezuela, are expected to impact our profits adversely.  In addition, government actions to incentivize local production and balance trade are driving trade frictions between South American countries and also with Mexico, resulting in business environment instability and new trade barriers that negatively impact our results.  Going forward, we will continue expanding our product portfolio with global products, and look at all areas of our business to improve operating results.     
    
  As we have indicated, we view the challenges the automotive industry faces in Europe to be more structural than cyclical in nature; industry sales volume for the 19 markets we track in Europe has dropped 20% in the past five years, with only modest industry improvement expected by mid-decade.  Against this backdrop, we announced in October 2012 our accelerated transformation plan for Ford Europe, which targets all areas of the business to return to profitability by mid-decade -- including new products and technologies, strengthened brand image, and improved cost efficiencies.   
    
  Our plan includes an aggressive new product rollout for the region, with 15 global vehicles launched within five years, along with a broad array of smart technologies.  We are introducing initiatives to continue strengthening the Ford brand in the region, including strategic reduction of dealer inventories that was largely completed in 2012.  Finally, we plan to close three facilities and relocate production for a more efficient manufacturing footprint.  We plan to close our vehicle assembly plant and our tooling and stamping operations in the United Kingdom during 2013, and, subject to an information and consultation process with employee representatives, we intend to close our vehicle assembly plant in Belgium in late 2014.  Once completed, our actions would reduce Ford Europe's installed assembly capacity (excluding Russia) by 18% or 355,000 units, affect 13% of Ford Europe's workforce, and result in annual gross cost savings of about $450 million - $500 million.     
    
  We are on track to deliver our European transformation plan.  In 2013, we will benefit from the non-repeat of dealer stock reductions to the same degree incurred in 2012.  As we previously guided, we will incur higher costs associated with restructuring actions in 2013 compared with 2012, mainly reflecting investment in new products, accelerated depreciation, and costs to implement our revised manufacturing footprint.  As we did with our successful restructuring in North America, we are making these investments now to transform our European business for profitable growth in the future.   
    
  Since providing guidance in October 2012, our outlook for industry volume in Europe has deteriorated.  We now expect industry volume to be in the lower end of the range of 13 million to 14 million units; the seasonally-adjusted annual rate of industry sales for the markets we track in Europe for the fourth quarter of 2012 was the lowest in nearly 20 years.  In addition, we are being adversely impacted by higher pension costs due to lower discount rates, and a stronger euro.  As a result, we now expect our full-year 2013 pre-tax loss for Ford Europe to be about $2 billion, compared with prior guidance of a loss about equal to 2012.    The business environment in Europe remains uncertain, and, as is our practice, we will continue to monitor the situation and take further action as necessary.  We believe that 2013 is likely the trough for European industry sales volume, and we expect industry sales volume and our results to begin to improve in 2014.   
    
  Our plan to return Ford Europe to profitability by mid-decade is driven by higher industry volume, higher market share from our product and brand initiatives, growth in emerging markets, richer mix, improved contribution margin, and our more efficient manufacturing footprint.  A partial offset will be higher structural costs as we reconfigure and grow our business in Europe.  As we proceed with our restructuring, most financial effects will flow through our operating results.   
    68 

    Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Employee separation costs, however, will be reflected as a special item.  Longer-term, we are targeting Ford Europe to achieve an operating margin in the range of 6% to 8%. 
    
  For Ford Asia Pacific Africa, we expect 2013 results to be about breakeven.  We expect our volume and revenue growth in the region to continue to accelerate, supported by the launch of all-new Kuga, EcoSport, and refreshed Fiesta across the region, as well as the launch of Mondeo and Explorer in China.  This will be offset in large part by continued strong investment across the region to support our longer-range growth plans.  Looking ahead, we see the results of our One Ford plan taking hold in Asia Pacific Africa, with record volume, revenue, and market share increasing as investments in new facilities and products gain traction. 
    
  We also are continuing the revitalization of our Lincoln brand reflecting the brand's distinct product strategy, including its own dedicated design studio, separate creative agency in New York, and financial services team to complement the vehicle acquisition and ownership experience -- and announced that we will be bringing the Lincoln brand to the burgeoning Chinese market. 
    
  Turning from our Automotive to Financial Services sector, we expect Ford Credit to generate 2013 pre-tax profit about equal to 2012, with managed receivables at year-end 2013 in the range of $95 billion to $105 billion, managed leverage continuing in the range of 8:1 to 9:1, and planned distributions of about $200 million. 
    
  Overall, we expect 2013 to be another strong year for Ford Motor Company, as we continue to work toward our mid-decade outlook.  We have made tremendous progress in recent years by executing the fundamentals of our One Ford plan, and there are significant benefits ahead as we leverage our global assets, and also benefit more fully from the investments we are making today for future profitable growth.  Our One Ford plan will continue to be our guide as we address head-on the diverse challenges and opportunities for our industry and our business worldwide.   
    
    69 

    Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Risk Factors 
    
  Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: 

Decline in industry sales volume, particularly in the United States or Europe, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors;   
                
    Decline in Ford's market share or failure to achieve growth; 
                
    Lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of Ford's new or existing products; 
                
    Market shift away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles beyond Ford's current planning assumption, particularly in the United States;   
                
    An increase in or continued volatility of fuel prices, or reduced availability of fuel;   
                
    Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors;   
                
    Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates; 
                
    Adverse effects resulting from economic, geopolitical, or other events;   
                
    Economic distress of suppliers that may require Ford to provide substantial financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials and could increase costs, affect liquidity, or cause production constraints or disruptions;   
                
    Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other limitations on production (whether as a result of labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, production constraints or difficulties, or other factors);   
                
    Single-source supply of components or materials;   
                
    Labor or other constraints on Ford's ability to maintain competitive cost structure;   
                
    Substantial pension and postretirement health care and life insurance liabilities impairing our liquidity or financial condition;   
                
    Worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns);   
                
    Restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law "ownership change;"   
                
    The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns,  or increased warranty costs;   
                
    Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy, or other regulations resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions;   
                
    Unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise;   
                
    A change in requirements under long-term supply arrangements committing Ford to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take-or-pay" contracts);   
                
    Adverse effects on results from a decrease in or cessation or clawback of government incentives related to investments;   
                
    Inherent limitations of internal controls impacting financial statements and safeguarding of assets;   
                
    Cybersecurity risks to operational systems, security systems, or infrastructure owned by Ford, Ford Credit, or a third-party vendor or supplier;   
                
    Failure of financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit and liquidity facilities;   
                
    Inability of Ford Credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts, due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors;   
                
    Higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles;   
                
    Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles; and   
                
    New or increased credit, consumer, or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions.   
       
  We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast, or assumption made in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized.  It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results.  Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.   
    70 

      Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES 
    
  We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if:  1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 
    
  Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors.  In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above.  Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. 
    
  Warranty and Product Recalls 
    
  Nature of Estimates Required.    We accrue the estimated cost of basic warranty coverages for each vehicle at the time of sale.  We establish estimates using historical information regarding the nature, frequency, and average cost of claims for each vehicle line by model year.  Where little or no claims experience exists, we rely on historical averages.  See  
  Note 31 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for information regarding costs for warranty actions.  Separately, we also accrue at the time of sale for potential product recalls based on historical experience.  Product recalls are distinguishable from warranty coverages in that the actions may extend beyond basic warranty coverage periods. 
    
  Assumptions and Approach Used.    We reevaluate our estimate of warranty obligations on a regular basis.  Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year may be volatile; therefore, our process relies on long-term historical averages until sufficient data are available.  As actual experience becomes available, we use the data to modify the historical averages in order to ensure that the estimate is within the range of likely outcomes.  We then compare the resulting accruals with present spending rates to ensure that the balances are adequate to meet expected future obligations.  Based on these data, we revise our estimates as necessary.  Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. 
    
  Pensions 
    
  Nature of Estimates Required.    The estimation of our pension obligations, costs, and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as demographic experience.  These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. 
    
  Assumptions and Approach Used.    The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: 

Discount rates.    We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high-quality bonds specific to the country of the plan.  Benefit payments are discounted at the rates on the curve and a single discount rate specific to the plan is determined. 
                
    Expected long-term rate of return on assets.    The expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption reflects historical returns and long-run inputs from a range of advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy.  The assumption is based on consideration of all inputs, with a focus on long-term trends to avoid short-term market influences.  Assumptions are not changed unless structural trends in the underlying economy are identified, our asset strategy changes, or there are significant changes in other inputs. 
                
    Salary growth.    The salary growth assumption reflects our long-term actual experience, outlook, and assumed inflation. 
                
    Inflation.    Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators, including real gross domestic product growth and central bank inflation targets. 
                
    Expected contributions.    The expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of regulatory premiums and levies, and tax efficiency). 
                
    Retirement rates.    Retirement rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. 
                
    Mortality rates.    Mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. 
       
    71 

      Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions.  No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). 
    
  The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses.  Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods.  Amounts are recognized as a component of net expense over the expected future years of service (approximately 11 years for the major U.S. plans).  In 2012, the U.S. actual return on assets was 14.2%, which was higher than the expected long-term rate of return of 7.5%.  The year-end 2012 weighted average discount rates for the U.S. and non-U.S. plans decreased by 80 basis points and 92 basis points, respectively.  These differences resulted in unamortized losses of about $6     billion.  Unamortized gains and losses are amortized only to the extent they exceed 10% of the higher of the market-related value of assets or the projected benefit obligation of the respective plan.  For the major U.S. plans, unamortized losses exceed this threshold and recognition is continuing in 2013. 
    
  See Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. 
    
  Sensitivity Analysis.    The   December 31, 2012   pension funded status and 2013 expense are affected by year-end 2012 assumptions.  These sensitivities may be asymmetric and are specific to the time periods noted.  They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown.  The effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in factors which generally have the largest impact on pension expense and obligation is shown below (in millions): 

Other Postretirement Employee Benefits 
    
  Nature of Estimates Required.    The estimation of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with OPEB, primarily retiree health care and life insurance, requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. 
    
  Assumptions and Approach Used.    The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: 

Discount rates.    We base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan.  Benefit payments are discounted at the rates on the curve and a single discount rate specific to the plan is determined. 
                
    Health care cost trends.    Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook, and an assessment of likely long-term trends. 
                
    Salary growth.    Salary growth assumptions reflect our long-term actual experience, our outlook, and assumed inflation. 
                
    Retirement rates.    Retirement rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. 
                
    Mortality rates.    Mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. 
       
  Plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions.  No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). 
    
  The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses.  Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods.  The weighted average discount rate used to determine the benefit obligation for U.S. plans at December 31,     2012 was 3.8%, compared with 4.6% at December     31,     2011, resulting in an unamortized loss of $410 million.  This amount is expected to be recognized as a component of net expense over the expected future years of service (approximately 12     years). 
    
  See Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding OPEB costs and assumptions. 
    72 

      Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Sensitivity Analysis.    The effect on U.S. and Canadian plans of a one percentage point increase/(decrease) in the assumed discount rate would be a (decrease)/increase in the postretirement health care benefit expense for 2013 of approximately $(40)     million/$50     million, and in the year-end 2012 obligation of approximately $(780)     million/$940     million. 
    
  Income Taxes 
  Nature of Estimates Required.    We must make estimates and apply judgment in determining the provision for income taxes for financial reporting purposes.  We make these estimates and judgments primarily in the following areas:  (i) the calculation of tax credits, (ii) the calculation of differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes that will ultimately be reported in tax returns, as well as (iii) the calculation of interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions.  Changes in these estimates and judgments may result in a material increase or decrease to our tax provision, which would be recorded in the period in which the change occurs. 
  Assumptions and Approach Used.    We are subject to the income tax laws and regulations of the many jurisdictions in which we operate.  These tax laws and regulations are complex and involve uncertainties in the application to our facts and circumstances that may be open to interpretation.  We recognize benefits for these uncertain tax positions based upon a  process that requires judgment regarding the technical application of the law, regulations and various related judicial opinions.  If, in our judgment, it is more likely than not that the uncertain tax position will be settled favorably to us, we estimate an amount that ultimately will be realized.  This process is inherently subjective, since it requires our assessment of the probability of future outcomes.  We evaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis, including consideration of changes in facts and circumstances, such as new regulations or recent judicial opinions, as well as the status of audit activities by taxing authorities.  Changes to our estimate of the amount to be realized are recorded in our provision for income taxes during the period in which the change occurred. 
  We must also assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets against future sources of taxable income.  GAAP requires a reduction of the carrying amount of deferred tax assets by recording a valuation allowance if, based on all available evidence, it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than 50%) that all or a portion of such assets will not be realized.  We presently believe that a valuation allowance of $1.9 billion is required, primarily for deferred tax assets related to our Ford South America operations, as well as various U.S. state and local net operating losses.  We believe that we ultimately will recover the remaining $20.8 billion of deferred tax assets.  Within this amount is $1.4 billion of net deferred tax assets related to our European operations.  We have assessed recoverability of these assets, and concluded that no valuation allowance is required.  We will continue to monitor recoverability as we progress our European transformation plan. 
  Changes in our judgment regarding our ability to recover our deferred tax assets would be reflected in our tax provision in the period in which the change occurred.  We expect that continued delivery of our One Ford plan could lead to the reduction in the overall level of valuation allowance related to U.S state and local net operating losses in the foreseeable future.   
  For additional information regarding income taxes, see Note 24 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
  Allowance for Credit Losses 
    
  The allowance for credit losses is Ford Credit's estimate of the probable credit losses inherent in finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the balance sheet.  Consistent with its normal practices and policies, Ford Credit assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly and regularly evaluates the assumptions and models used in establishing the allowance.  Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. 
    
  Nature of Estimates Required.    Ford Credit estimates the probable credit losses inherent in finance receivables and operating leases based on several factors. 
    
  Consumer Segment.    The retail installment and lease portfolio is evaluated using a combination of models and management judgment, and is based on factors such as historical trends in credit losses and recoveries (including key metrics such as delinquencies, repossessions, and bankruptcies), the composition of Ford Credit's present portfolio (including vehicle brand, term, risk evaluation, and new/used vehicles), trends in historical and projected used vehicle values, and economic conditions.  Estimates from models may not fully reflect losses inherent in the present portfolio, and an element of the allowance for credit losses is established for the imprecision inherent in loan loss models.  Reasons for imprecision include changes in economic trends and conditions, portfolio composition, and other relevant factors. 
    
    73 

      Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   Assumptions Used.    Ford Credit makes projections of two key assumptions: 

Frequency.    The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that Ford Credit expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and 
                
    Loss severity.    The expected difference between the amount of money a customer owes Ford Credit when Ford Credit charges off the finance contract and the amount Ford Credit receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. 
       
  Ford Credit uses these assumptions to assist it in estimating its allowance for credit losses.  See Note 9 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. 
    
  Sensitivity Analysis.    Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses.  The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford Credit's U.S. Ford and Lincoln retail and lease portfolio (in millions): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that Ford Credit expects will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. 
       
  Non-Consumer Segment.    We estimate an allowance using an LTR model for non-consumer receivables that are not specifically identified as impaired.  All accounts that are specifically identified as impaired are excluded from the calculation of the non-specific or collective allowance.  The non-consumer portfolio is evaluated by segmenting individual loans by the risk characteristics of the loan (such as the amount of the loan, the nature of collateral, and the financial status of the dealer).  The loans are analyzed to determine if individual loans are impaired, and an allowance is estimated for the expected loss of these loans. 
    
  Changes in Ford Credit's assumptions affect the   Provision for credit and insurance losses   on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within   Finance receivables, net   and   Net investment in     operating leases   on our balance sheet, in each case under the Financial Services sector. 
    
  Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases 
    
  Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term.  These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive sector. 
    
  We monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis.  If we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles less accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term.  Such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded prospectively on a straight-line basis. 
    
  For retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer.  Ford Credit's North America operating lease activity was as follows for each of the last three years (in thousands, except percentages): 

For rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles have been returned to us. 
    
  Nature of Estimates Required.    Each operating lease in our portfolio represents a vehicle we own that has been leased to a customer.  At the time we purchase a lease, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle.  We  
    74 

      Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   estimate the expected residual value by evaluating recent auction values, historical return volumes for our leased vehicles, industry-wide used vehicle prices, our marketing incentive plans, and vehicle quality data. 
    
  Assumptions Used.    For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions regarding: 

Auction value.    Ford Credit's projection of the market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and 
                
    Return volume.    Ford Credit's projection of the number of vehicles that will be returned at lease-end. 
       
  See Note 8 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. 
    
     Sensitivity Analysis.    For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle.  The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions for our U.S. Ford and Lincoln retail and lease portfolio is as follows: 

The impact of the increased accumulated supplemental depreciation in 2012 would be charged to expense in the  
  2013 - 2016 periods.  Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on operating leases are reflected on our balance sheet as   Net investment in operating leases   and on the income statement in   Depreciation  , in each case under the Financial Services sector. 
    
  Automotive Sector Long-Lived Asset Impairment Testing  
    
  Nature of Estimates Required - Long-Lived Assets.    Long-lived asset groups are tested for recoverability when changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.  Events that trigger a test for recoverability include material adverse changes in projected revenues and expenses, significant underperformance relative to historical and projected future operating results, and significant negative industry or economic trends.  When a triggering event occurs, a test for recoverability is performed, comparing projected undiscounted future cash flows to the carrying value of the asset group.  If the test for recoverability identifies a possible impairment, the asset group's fair value is measured relying primarily on a discounted cash flow methodology.  An impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying value of the asset group exceeds its estimated fair value.  A test for recoverability also is performed when management has committed to a plan to sell or otherwise dispose of an asset group and the plan is expected to be completed within a year.  When an impairment loss is recognized for assets to be held and used, the adjusted carrying amount of those assets is depreciated over its remaining useful life.  Restoration of a previously recognized long-lived asset impairment loss is not allowed.  
    
  Assumptions and Approach Used.    We measure the fair value of a reporting unit or asset group based on market prices (i.e., the amount for which the asset could be sold to a third party), when available.  When market prices are not available, we estimate the fair value of the reporting unit or asset group using the income approach and/or the market approach.  The income approach uses cash flow projections.  Inherent in our development of cash flow projections are assumptions and estimates derived from a review of our operating results, business plan forecasts, expected growth rates, and cost of capital, similar to those a market participant would use to assess fair value.  We also make certain assumptions about future economic conditions and other data.  Many of the factors used in assessing fair value are outside the control of management, and these assumptions and estimates may change in future periods.  
    
  Changes in assumptions or estimates can materially affect the fair value measurement of a reporting unit or asset group, and therefore can affect the test results.  The following are key assumptions we use in making cash flow projections: 

Business projections  .   We make assumptions about the demand for our products in the marketplace.  These assumptions drive our planning assumptions for volume, mix, and pricing.  We also make assumptions about our  
       75 

      Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   cost levels (e.g., capacity utilization, cost performance, etc.).  These projections are derived using our internal business plan forecasts that are updated at least annually and reviewed by our Board of Directors. 

Long-term growth rate  .  A growth rate is used to calculate the terminal value of the business, and is added to the present value of the debt-free interim cash flows.  The growth rate is the expected rate at which a business unit's earnings stream is projected to grow beyond the planning period. 

Discount rate.    When measuring possible impairment, future cash flows are discounted at a rate that is consistent with a weighted-average cost of capital that we anticipate a potential market participant would use.  Weighted-average cost of capital is an estimate of the overall risk-adjusted after-tax rate of return required by equity and debt holders of a business enterprise. 

Economic projections.    Assumptions regarding general economic conditions are included in and affect our assumptions regarding industry sales and pricing estimates for our vehicles.  These macro-economic assumptions include, but are not limited to, industry sales volumes, inflation, interest rates, prices of raw materials (i.e., commodities), and foreign currency exchange rates. 
       
  The market approach is another method for measuring the fair value of a reporting unit or asset group.  This approach relies on the market value (i.e., market capitalization) of companies that are engaged in the same or similar line of business. 
    
  During the third quarter of 2012, operating profits and cash flow from operations outside of North America remained under pressure.  In particular, industry sales volume for the markets we track in Europe declined significantly in recent years with only modest improvement expected by mid-decade, suggesting that current changes in the European business environment are more structural than cyclical in nature.  Against this backdrop, we determined that it was appropriate to test for impairment the long-lived assets of our Ford Europe segment.  Using our economic and business projections, including an assumption of an 8% operating margin for Ford Europe over the longer term, we determined that the carrying value of our Ford Europe long-lived asset group at September 30, 2012 did not exceed fair value.  Our long-term economic and business projections did not change during the fourth quarter of 2012.  If in future quarters our economic or business projections were to change as a result of our plans or changes in the business environment, we would undertake additional testing as appropriate which could result in an impairment of long-lived assets. 
    
    ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED 
    
  For information on accounting standards issued but not yet adopted, see Note 3 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
    
    76 

      Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)      

   AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS 
    
  We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties.  Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services sector.  Long-term debt may have fixed or variable interest rates.  For long-term debt with variable-rate interest, we estimate the future interest payments based on projected market interest rates for various floating-rate benchmarks received from third parties.  In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components, and services to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services.  These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements.  "Purchase obligations" are defined as off-balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms.   
    
  The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2012 (in millions): 

__________       
  (a)  Amount includes, prior to adjustment noted above, $902 million for the Automotive sector and $19,631 million for the Financial Services sector for the current portion of long-term debt.  See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for additional discussion. 
  (b)  Automotive sector excludes unamortized debt discounts of $(249) million.  Financial Services sector excludes unamortized debt discounts of $(134) million and adjustments of $791 million related to designated fair value hedges of the debt. 
  (c)  Excludes amortization of debt discounts/premiums. 
  (d)    Amounts represent our estimate of contractually obligated deficit contributions to U.K. plans.  See Note 16 for further information regarding our expected 2013 pension contributions and funded status. 
    
  The amount of unrecognized tax benefits for 2012 of $1.5 billion (see Note 24 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for additional discussion) is excluded from the table above.  Final settlement of a significant portion of these obligations will require bilateral tax agreements among us and various countries, the timing of which cannot reasonably be estimated. 
    
  For additional information regarding operating lease obligations, pension and OPEB obligations, and long-term debt, see Notes 8, 16, and 17, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 

77 

ITEM 7A.   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 
    
  OVERVIEW 
    
  We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. 
    
  These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors differently.  We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee ("GRMC").  The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Corporate Controller, and other members of senior management. 
    
  Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable.  We maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles.  As discussed in greater detail in Item 7 our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances, equity and equity-linked issuances, and bank borrowings. 
    
  We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury.  We protect against these risks through a combination of self-insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. 
    
  Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurer's Office and is governed by written policies and procedures.  Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows.  Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective.  In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are approved by the GRMC, and reviewed by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. 
    
  In accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, when available, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates).  Derivative positions, when available, are used to hedge underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for trading, market-making or speculative purposes.  In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, and, in certain other instances, our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting.  Either situation results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income.  For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 18 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
    
  The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified below. 
    
    AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK 
    
  Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following:  purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations.  These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates.  We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector and changes in interest rates. 
    
  Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and/or prices.  For options and instruments with non-linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. 
    
  Foreign Currency Risk.    Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in currency exchange rates.  Accordingly, our normal practice is to use derivative instruments, when available, to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies.  In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts). 
    
    78 

    Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued)                                      

   The net fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts (including adjustments for credit risk) as of  
  December 31, 2012   was a liability of $268 million compared to a liability of $236 million as of   December 31, 2011  .  The potential decrease in fair value from a 10% adverse change in the underlying exchange rates, in U.S. dollar terms, would be about $2 billion at   December 31, 2012   compared with a decrease of about $1.7 billion as of   December 31, 2011  .  The increase in potential market risk from the end of last year primarily results from an increase in the amount of foreign currencies hedged during 2012.   
    
  Commodity Price Risk.       Commodity price risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in the prices of commodities used in the production of motor vehicles, such as ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), non-ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene).  Steel and resins are two of our largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. 
    
  Our normal practice is to use derivative instruments, when available, to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non-ferrous metals and precious metals).  In our hedging actions, we use derivative instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). 
    
  The net fair value of commodity forward and option contracts (including adjustments for credit risk) as of   December 31, 2012   was a liability of $101 million (which reflects the cumulative mark to market net loss on our hedging contracts for full year 2012), compared to a liability of $370 million as of   December 31, 2011  .  The potential decrease in fair value from a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity prices, in U.S. dollar terms, would be about $103 million at   December 31, 2012  , compared with a decrease of about $203 million at   December 31, 2011  .   The decrease in potential market risk from the end of last year primarily results from a decrease in the amount of commodities hedged during 2012 with forward contracts (partially offset by an increase in the amount of commodities hedged with option contracts).  
    
  In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials.  In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. 
    
  Interest Rate Risk.    Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our Automotive investment portfolios due to a change in interest rates.  Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolios includes cash and cash equivalents and net marketable securities.  At   December 31, 2012  , we had $24.3 billion in our Automotive investment portfolios, compared to $22.9 billion at   December 31, 2011  .  We invest the portfolios in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates.  The portfolios are classified as trading portfolios and gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement.  The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short-term investments.  In investing our Automotive cash, safety of principal is the primary objective and risk-adjusted return is the secondary objective. 
    
  At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our portfolios.  Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our portfolios would be reduced by about $185 million.  This compares to $95 million, as calculated as of   December 31, 2011  .  While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected.  The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve.  In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. 
    
  Counterparty Risk.    Counterparty risk relates to the loss we could incur if an obligor or counterparty defaulted on an investment or a derivative contract.  We enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk.  Exposures primarily relate to investments in fixed income instruments and derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk.  We, together with Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification.    
    
  Our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward-looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses.  Exposure limits are established based on our overall risk tolerance and estimated loss projections which are calculated from ratings-based historical default probabilities.  The exposure limits are lower for lower-rated counterparties and for longer-dated exposures.  Our exposures are monitored on a regular basis and included in periodic reports to our Treasurer. 
    79 

    Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued)                                      

   Substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that have an investment grade rating.   Investment grade is our guideline for counterparty minimum long-term ratings. 
    
  For additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to Note 18 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
    
    FORD CREDIT MARKET RISK 
    
  Overview.    Ford Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities.  In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor, and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: 

Market risk   - the possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates will adversely affect cash flow and economic value; 
                
    Credit risk   - the possibility of loss from a customer's failure to make payments according to contract terms; 
                
    Residual risk   - the possibility that the actual proceeds received at lease termination will be lower than projections or return volumes will be higher than projections; and 
                
    Liquidity risk   - the possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all of its current and future obligations in a timely manner. 
       
  Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credit's overall global risk.  Business decisions are evaluated on a risk-adjusted basis and services are priced consistent with these risks.  Credit and residual risks, as well as liquidity risk, are discussed above in Item 7.  A discussion of Ford Credit's market risks (interest rate risk and foreign currency risk) is included below. 
    
  Interest Rate Risk  .  Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that its assets and the related debt have different re-pricing periods, and consequently, respond differently to changes in interest rates. 
    
  Ford Credit's assets consist primarily of fixed-rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating-rate wholesale receivables.  Fixed-rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract.  Wholesale receivables are originated to finance new and used vehicles held in dealers' inventory and generally require dealers to pay a floating rate. 
    
  Debt consists primarily of securitizations and short- and long-term unsecured debt.  In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout business cycles, Ford Credit may borrow at terms longer than the terms of their assets, in most instances with maturities up to ten years.  These debt instruments are principally fixed-rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. 
    
  Ford Credit's interest rate risk management objective is to reduce volatility in its cash flows and volatility in its economic value from changes in interest rates based on an established risk tolerance. 
    
  Ford Credit uses re-pricing gap analysis and economic value sensitivity analysis to evaluate potential long term effects of changes in interest rates. It then enters into interest rate swaps to convert portions of its floating-rate debt to fixed or its fixed-rate debt to floating to ensure that Ford Credit's exposure falls within the established tolerances. Ford Credit also uses pre-tax cash flow sensitivity analysis to monitor the level of near-term cash flow exposure.  The pre-tax cash flow sensitivity analysis measures the changes in expected cash flows associated with Ford Credit's interest-rate-sensitive assets, liabilities, and derivative financial instruments from hypothetical changes in interest rates over a twelve-month horizon.  Ford Credit's Asset-Liability Committee reviews the re-pricing mismatch and exposure every month and approves interest rate swaps required to maintain exposure within approved thresholds prior to execution.   
     
  To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre-tax cash flow to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease of one percentage point in all interest rates, across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that all interest rates remain constant at existing levels.  In reality, interest rate changes are rarely instantaneous or parallel and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credit's analysis.  As a result, the actual impact to pre-tax cash flow could be higher or lower than the results detailed in the table below.  These interest rate scenarios are purely hypothetical and do not represent Ford Credit's view of future interest rate movements. 
    
    80 

    Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued)                                      

   Pre-tax cash flow sensitivity as of year-end 2012 and 2011 was as follows (in millions): 
                               
    Pre-Tax Cash Flow Sensitivity (given a one percentage point instantaneous   increase   in interest rates) 
      
    Pre-Tax Cash Flow Sensitivity (given a one percentage point instantaneous   decrease   in interest rates) (a) 
      December 31, 2012 
    $ 
    77 

$ 
    (77 
    ) 
      December 31, 2011 
    $ 
    60 

$ 
    (60 
    ) 

_____ 
           (a) 
    Pre-tax cash flow sensitivity given a one percentage point decrease in interest rates requires an assumption of negative interest rates in markets where existing interest rates are below one percent. 
       
  Ford Credit expects more assets than debt and liabilities to re-price in the next twelve months.  Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest earned on Ford Credit's assets will increase more than the interest paid on Ford Credit's debt, thereby initially increasing Ford Credit's pre-tax cash flow.  During a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credit would expect its pre-tax cash flow to initially decrease. Ford Credit's pre-tax cash flow sensitivity to interest rate movement is highlighted in the table above. 
    
  While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credit's best estimate of the impacts of the specified assumed interest rate scenarios, its actual results could differ from those projected.  The model Ford Credit uses to conduct this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions.  Embedded in the model are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, replacement of maturing derivatives, exercise of options embedded in debt and derivatives, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity.  Ford Credit's repayment projections ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience.  If interest rates or other factors change, Ford Credit's actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. 
    
  Foreign Currency Risk.    Ford Credit's policy is to minimize exposure to changes in currency exchange rates.  To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit borrows in a variety of currencies, principally U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Euros and Pound Sterling.  Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rates if a mismatch exists between the currency of receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables.  When possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements.  When a different currency is used, Ford Credit may use foreign currency swaps and foreign currency forwards to convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables: 
    
     As a result of this policy, Ford Credit believes its market risk exposure relating to changes in currency exchange rates is insignificant. 
    
  Derivative Fair Values.    The net fair value of Ford Credit's derivative financial instruments as of   December 31, 2012   was an asset of $856 million, compared to an asset of $1.1 billion as of   December 31, 2011  .  For additional information regarding our Financial Services sector derivatives, see Note 18 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
    
    ITEM 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 
    
  The Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, our Financial Statements, the accompanying Notes to the Financial Statements, and the Financial Statement Schedule that are filed as part of this Report are listed under "Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules" and are set forth beginning on page FS-1 immediately following the signature pages of this Report. 
    
  Selected quarterly financial data for 2012 and 2011 are provided in Note 30 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
    
    ITEM 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 
    
  None. 
    
    81 

ITEM 9A.   Controls and Procedures. 
    
  Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.    Alan Mulally, our Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"), and Bob Shanks, our Chief Financial Officer ("CFO"), have performed an evaluation of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures, as that term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"), as of   December 31, 2012  , and each has concluded that such disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our periodic reports filed under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified by SEC rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to the CEO and CFO to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. 
    
  Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.    Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f).  The Company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 
    
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or because the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
    
  Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our CEO and CFO, we conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012.  The assessment was based on criteria established in the framework   Internal Control - Integrated Framework  , issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  Based on this assessment, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2012. 
    
  The effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report included herein. 
    
  Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting.    The following fourth quarter 2012 developments have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting: 

We began issuing payments pursuant to our previously announced program that offers voluntary lump-sum pension payout options to eligible salaried U.S. retirees and former salaried employees.  The program provides participants with a one-time choice of electing to receive a lump-sum settlement of remaining pension benefit.  Offers to eligible participants will continue through 2013. 
       
     Ford Europe launched a new hourly payroll system for Britain.   

Effective December 1, 2012, Ford Motor Company appointed Mark Fields to the position of Chief Operating Officer.  Mr. Fields is the first executive to be appointed to this position at Ford since it was last filled in 2006.  
       
    ITEM 9B.    Other Information. 
    
  None. 
    
    82 

PART III. 
    
    ITEM 10.   Directors, Executive Officers of Ford and Corporate Governance. 
    
  The information required by Item 10 regarding our directors is incorporated by reference from the information under the captions "Election of Directors," "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" and "Management Stock Ownership" in our Proxy Statement.  The information required by Item 10 regarding our executive officers appears as Item 4A under Part I of this Report.  The information required by Item 10 regarding an audit committee financial expert is incorporated by reference from the information under the caption "Corporate Governance" in our Proxy Statement.  The information required by Item 10 regarding the members of our Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is incorporated by reference from the information under the caption "Committees of the Board of Directors" in our Proxy Statement.  The information required by Item 10 regarding the Audit Committee's review and discussion of the audited financial statements is incorporated by reference from information under the caption "Audit Committee Report" in our Proxy Statement.  The information required by Item 10 regarding our codes of ethics is incorporated by reference from the information under the caption "Corporate Governance" in our Proxy Statement.  In addition, we have included in Item 1 instructions for how to access our codes of ethics on our website and our Internet address.  Amendments to, and waivers granted under, our Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Personnel, if any, will be posted to our website as well. 
    
    ITEM 11.   Executive Compensation. 
    
  The information required by Item 11 is incorporated by reference from the information under the following captions in our Proxy Statement:  "Director Compensation," "Compensation Discussion and Analysis," "Compensation Committee Report," "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation," "Compensation of Executive Officers," "Summary Compensation Table," "Grants of Plan-Based Awards in 2012," "Outstanding Equity Awards at 2012 Fiscal Year-End," "Option Exercises and Stock Vested in 2012," "Pension Benefits in 2012," "Nonqualified Deferred Compensation in 2012," and "Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control." 
    
    ITEM 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 
    
  The information required by Item 12 is incorporated by reference from the information under the captions "Equity Compensation Plan Information" and "Management Stock Ownership" in our Proxy Statement. 
    
    ITEM 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 
    
  The information required by Item 13 is incorporated by reference from the information under the captions "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" and "Corporate Governance" in our Proxy Statement. 
    
    ITEM 14.   Principal Accounting Fees and Services. 
    
  The information required by Item 14 is incorporated by reference from the information under the caption "Audit Committee Report" in our Proxy Statement. 
    
    83 

PART IV. 

ITEM 15.   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. 
    
  (a) 1. Financial Statements   Ford Motor Company and Subsidiaries 
    
  The following are contained in this 2012 Form 10-K Report: 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 

Notes to the Financial Statements. 
       
  The Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, the Consolidated and Sector Financial Statements, and the Notes to the Financial Statements listed above are filed as part of this Report and are set forth beginning on page FS-1 immediately following the signature pages of this Report. 
    
  (a) 2. Financial Statement Schedules 
                 Designation 
    Description 
      Schedule II 
    Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 

Schedule II is filed as part of this Report and is set forth on page FSS-1 immediately following the Notes to the Financial Statements referred to above.  The other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, the information required to be contained in them is disclosed elsewhere in our Consolidated and Sector Financial Statements or the amounts involved are not sufficient to require submission. 
    
  (a) 3. Exhibits  
                       Designation 
      
    Description 
      
    Method of Filing 
      Exhibit 3-A 
      
    Restated Certificate of Incorporation, dated August 2, 2000. 
      
    Filed as Exhibit 3-A to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000.* 
      Exhibit 3-B 
      
    By-Laws as amended through December 14, 2006. 
      
    Filed as Exhibit 3-B to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.* 
      Exhibit 10-A 
      
    Executive Separation Allowance Plan as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2012.** 
      
    Filed with this Report. 
      Exhibit 10-B 
      
    Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended and restated as of January 1, 2012.** 
      
    Filed as Exhibit 10-B to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.* 
      Exhibit 10-C 
      
    Benefit Equalization Plan, as amended and restated as of January 1, 2012.** 
      
    Filed with this Report. 
      Exhibit 10-D 
      
    Description of financial counseling services provided to certain executives.** 
      
    Filed as Exhibit 10-F to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002.* 
      Exhibit 10-E 
      
    Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2013.** 
      
    Filed with this Report. 
      Exhibit 10-E-1 
      
    Defined Contribution Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, effective January 1, 2013.** 
      
    Filed with this Report. 
      Exhibit 10-F 
      
    Description of Director Compensation as of July 13, 2006.** 
      
    Filed as Exhibit 10-G-3 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006.* 
      Exhibit 10-F-1 
      
    Amendment to Description of Director Compensation as of March 1, 2009.** 
      
    Filed as Exhibit 10-F-5 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.* 

84 

85 

86 

Designation 
      
    Description 
      
    Method of Filing 
      Exhibit 10-AA 
      
    Tax Benefit Preservation Plan ("TBPP") dated September 11, 2009 between Ford Motor Company and Computershare Trust Company, N.A. 
      
    Filed as Exhibit 4.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 11, 2009.* 
      Exhibit 10-AA-1 
      
    Amendment No. 1 to TBPP dated September 11, 2012. 
      
    Filed as Exhibit 4 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 12, 2012.* 
      Exhibit 10-BB 
      
    Loan Arrangement and Reimbursement Agreement between Ford Motor Company and the U.S. Department of Energy dated as of September 16, 2009. 
      
    Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 22, 2009.* 
      Exhibit 10-CC 
      
    Note Purchase Agreement dated as of September 16, 2009 among the Federal Financing Bank, Ford Motor Company, and the U.S. Secretary of Energy. 
      
    Filed as Exhibit 10.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 22, 2009.* 
      Exhibit 12 
      
    Calculation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges. 
      
    Filed with this Report. 
      Exhibit 18 
      
    Letter of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, dated February 18, 2013, regarding Change in Accounting Principle. 
      
    Filed with this Report. 
      Exhibit 21 
      
    List of Subsidiaries of Ford as of February 1, 2013. 
      
    Filed with this Report. 
      Exhibit 23 
      
    Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 
      
    Filed with this Report. 
      Exhibit 24 
      
    Powers of Attorney. 
      
    Filed with this Report. 
      Exhibit 31.1 
      
    Rule 15d-14(a) Certification of CEO. 
      
    Filed with this Report. 
      Exhibit 31.2 
      
    Rule 15d-14(a) Certification of CFO. 
      
    Filed with this Report. 
      Exhibit 32.1 
      
    Section 1350 Certification of CEO. 
      
    Furnished with this Report. 
      Exhibit 32.2 
      
    Section 1350 Certification of CFO. 
      
    Furnished with this Report. 
      Exhibit 101.INS 
      
    XBRL Instance Document. 
      
    *** 
      Exhibit 101.SCH 
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document. 
      
    *** 
      Exhibit 101.CAL 
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document. 
      
    *** 
      Exhibit 101.LAB 
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document. 
      
    *** 
      Exhibit 101.PRE 
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document. 
      
    *** 
      Exhibit 101.DEF 
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document. 
      
    *** 

__________ 
           * 
    Incorporated by reference as an exhibit to this Report (file number reference 1-3950, unless otherwise indicated). 
              ** 
    Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 
     ***   Submitted electronically with this Report in accordance with the provisions of Regulation S-T. 
    
  Instruments defining the rights of holders of certain issues of long-term debt of Ford and of certain consolidated subsidiaries and of any unconsolidated subsidiary, for which financial statements are required to be filed with this Report, have not been filed as exhibits to this Report because the authorized principal amount of any one of such issues does not exceed 10% of the total assets of Ford and our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.  Ford agrees to furnish a copy of each of such instrument to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request. 
    
    87 

SIGNATURE 
    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Ford has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
    
  FORD MOTOR COMPANY 

By: 
    /s/ Stuart Rowley 
        
    Stuart Rowley, Vice President and Controller 
        
    (chief accounting officer) 

Date: 
    February 18, 2013 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Ford and in the capacities on the date indicated: 
    
                       Signature 
      
    Title 
      
    Date 

WILLIAM CLAY FORD, JR.* 
      
    Director, Chairman of the Board, Executive Chairman, Chair of the Office of the Chairman and Chief Executive, and Chair of the Finance Committee 
      
    February 18, 2013 
      William Clay Ford, Jr. 

ALAN MULALLY* 
      
    Director, President and Chief Executive Officer 
      
    February 18, 2013 
       Alan Mulally 
      
    (principal executive officer) 

STEPHEN G. BUTLER* 
      
    Director and Chair of the Audit Committee 
      
    February 18, 2013 
      Stephen G. Butler 

KIMBERLY A. CASIANO* 
      
    Director 
      
    February 18, 2013 
      Kimberly A. Casiano 

ANTHONY F. EARLEY, JR.* 
      
    Director 
      
    February 18, 2013 
      Anthony F. Earley, Jr. 

EDSEL B. FORD II* 
      
    Director 
      
    February 18, 2013 
      Edsel B. Ford II 

RICHARD A. GEPHARDT* 
      
    Director 
      
    February 18, 2013 
      Richard A. Gephardt 

JAMES H. HANCE, JR.* 
      
    Director 
      
    February 18, 2013 
      James H. Hance, Jr. 

WILLIAM W. HELMAN IV* 
      
    Director 
      
    February 18, 2013 
      William W. Helman IV 

IRVINE O. HOCKADAY, JR.* 
      
    Director 
      
    February 18, 2013 
      Irvine O. Hockaday, Jr. 

88 

Signature 
      
    Title 
      
    Date 

JON M. HUNTSMAN, JR.* 
      
    Director 
      
    February 18, 2013 
      Jon M. Huntsman, Jr. 

RICHARD A. MANOOGIAN* 
      
    Director and Chair of the Compensation Committee 
      
    February 18, 2013 
      Richard A. Manoogian 

ELLEN R. MARRAM* 
      
    Director and Chair of the Nominating and Governance Committee 
      
    February 18, 2013 
      Ellen R. Marram 

HOMER A. NEAL* 
      
    Director and Chair of the Sustainability Committee 
      
    February 18, 2013 
      Homer A. Neal 

GERALD L. SHAHEEN* 
      
    Director 
      
    February 18, 2013 
      Gerald L. Shaheen 

JOHN L. THORNTON* 
      
    Director 
      
    February 18, 2013 
      John L. Thornton 

BOB SHANKS* 
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
      
    February 18, 2013 
      Bob Shanks 
      
    (principal financial officer)  

STUART ROWLEY* 
      
    Vice President and Controller 
      
    February 18, 2013 
      Stuart Rowley 
      
    (principal accounting officer) 

*By:  /s/ BRADLEY M. GAYTON 

February 18, 2013 
      Bradley M. Gayton 

Attorney-in-Fact 

89 

This page intentionally left blank. 

90 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    
  To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
  Ford Motor Company 
    
  In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, equity and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Ford Motor Company and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  In addition, in our opinion, the accompanying financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.  Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  The Company's management is responsible for these financial statements and the financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A.  Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.  Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
    
  Our audits were conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic financial statements taken as a whole.  The accompanying sector balance sheets and the related sector statements of income and of cash flows are presented for purposes of additional analysis and are not a required part of the basic financial statements.  Such information has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, is fairly stated in all material respects in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole. 
    
  A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
    
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
    
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
  Detroit, Michigan  
  February 18, 2013 

FS-1 

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 
  (in millions, except per share amounts) 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
  (in millions) 

The accompanying notes are part of the financial statements. 
    FS-2 

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  SECTOR INCOME STATEMENT 
  (in millions) 

The accompanying notes are part of the financial statements. 
    FS-3 

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 
  (in millions) 

The following table includes assets to be used to settle liabilities of the consolidated variable interest entities ("VIEs").  These assets and liabilities are included in the consolidated balance sheet above.  See Note 12 for additional information on our VIEs. 

The accompanying notes are part of the financial statements. 
    FS-4 

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  SECTOR BALANCE SHEET (in millions)    

The accompanying notes are part of the financial statements. 
    FS-5 

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
  (in millions) 

The accompanying notes are part of the financial statements. 
    FS-6 

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONDENSED SECTOR STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
  (in millions) 

The accompanying notes are part of the financial statements. 
    FS-7 

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EQUITY 
  (in millions) 

The accompanying notes are part of the financial statements. 
    FS-8 

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
    
  Table of Contents 

FS-9 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 1.  PRESENTATION 
    
  For purposes of this report, "Ford," the "Company," "we," "our," "us" or similar references mean Ford Motor Company and our consolidated subsidiaries and our consolidated VIEs of which we are the primary beneficiary, unless the context requires otherwise. 
    
  We prepare our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP").  We present the financial statements on a consolidated basis and on a sector basis for our Automotive and Financial Services sectors.  The additional information provided in the sector statements enables the reader to better understand the operating performance, financial position, cash flows, and liquidity of our two very different businesses.  We eliminate all intercompany items and transactions in the consolidated and sector balance sheets.  In certain circumstances, presentation of these intercompany eliminations or consolidated adjustments differ between the consolidated and sector financial statements.  These line items are reconciled below under "Reconciliations between Consolidated and Sector Financial Statements" or in related footnotes.  
    
  We reclassified certain prior year amounts in our consolidated financial statements to conform to current year presentation. 
    
  Adoption of New Accounting Standards 
    
  Fair Value Measurement.    On January 1, 2012, we adopted the new accounting standard that requires us to report the level in the fair value hierarchy of assets and liabilities not measured at fair value in the balance sheet but for which the fair value is disclosed, and to expand existing disclosures.  See Note 4 for further disclosure regarding our fair value measurements. 
    
  Comprehensive Income - Presentation.    On January 1, 2012, we adopted the new accounting standard that modifies the options for presentation of other comprehensive income.  The new accounting standard requires us to present comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement or two separate but consecutive statements.  We have elected to present comprehensive income in two separate but consecutive statements. 
    
  On January 1, 2012, we also adopted the new accounting standards   Intangibles - Goodwill and Other, Transfers and Servicing - Repurchase Agreements,   and   Financial Services - Insurance.    The adoption of these new accounting standards did not impact our financial condition or results of operations. 

FS-10 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 1.  PRESENTATION   (Continued) 
    
  Reconciliations between Consolidated and Sector Financial Statements 
    
  Sector to Consolidated Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities.    The difference between the total assets and total liabilities as presented in our sector balance sheet and consolidated balance sheet is the result of netting deferred income tax assets and liabilities.  The reconciliation between the totals for the sector and consolidated balance sheets was as follows (in millions): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Financial Services deferred income tax assets are included in   Financial Services other assets   on our sector balance sheet. 
       FS-11 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 1.  PRESENTATION   (Continued) 
    
  Sector to Consolidated Cash Flow  .  We present certain cash flows from wholesale receivables, finance receivables and the acquisition of intersector debt differently on our sector and consolidated statements of cash flows.  The reconciliation between totals for the sector and consolidated cash flows for the years ended   December 31   was as follows (in millions): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    In addition to the cash flow from vehicles sold by us, the cash flow from wholesale finance receivables (being reclassified from investing to operating) includes dealer financing by Ford Credit of used and non-Ford vehicles.    One hundred   percent of cash flows from these wholesale finance receivables have been reclassified for consolidated presentation as the portion of these cash flows from used and non-Ford vehicles is impracticable to separate.  
              (b) 
    Includes cash flows of finance receivables purchased/collected by the Financial Services sector from certain divisions and subsidiaries of the Automotive sector. 
              (c) 
    Cash outflows related to this transaction are reported as financing activities on the consolidated statement of cash flows and operating activities on the sector statement of cash flows. 
              (d) 
    Cash inflows related to these transactions are reported as financing activities on the consolidated statement of cash flows and investing activities on the sector statement of cash flows. 

FS-12 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 1.  PRESENTATION   (Continued) 
    
  Certain Transactions Between Automotive and Financial Services Sectors 
    
  Intersector transactions occur in the ordinary course of business.  Additional detail regarding certain transactions and the effect on each sector's balance sheet was as follows (in billions): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Automotive sector receivables (generated primarily from vehicle and parts sales to third parties) sold to Ford Credit.  These receivables are classified as   Other receivables, net   on our consolidated balance sheet and   Finance receivables, net   on our sector balance sheet. 
              (b) 
    We pay amounts to Ford Credit at the point of retail financing or lease origination that represent interest supplements and residual value support. 
              (c) 
    Primarily wholesale receivables with entities that are consolidated subsidiaries of Ford.   
              (d) 
    Sale-leaseback agreement between Automotive and Financial Services sectors relating to vehicles that we lease to our employees. 
              (e) 
    Amounts owed to the Financial Services sector by Automotive sector, or vice versa. 
       
  Venezuelan Operations   
    
  At   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , we had   $620 million   and   $301 million  , respectively, in net monetary assets (primarily cash and receivables partially offset by payables and accrued liabilities) denominated in Venezuelan bolivars.  These net monetary assets included   $721 million   and   $331 million   in cash and cash equivalents at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , respectively.  We used the official exchange rate at December 31, 2012 of   4.3   bolivars to the U.S. dollar to re-measure the assets and liabilities of our Venezuelan operations for GAAP financial statement presentation.  On February 8, 2013, the Venezuelan government announced a devaluation of the bolivar to an exchange rate of   6.3   bolivars to the U.S. dollar.  Had the devaluation occurred on December 31, 2012, we would have recorded a translation loss of approximately   $200 million   in our year-end financial statements.  Our ability to obtain funds at the official exchange rate has been limited.  Continuing restrictions on the foreign currency exchange market could affect our Venezuelan operations' ability to pay obligations denominated in U.S. dollars as well as our ability to benefit from those operations.   

FS-13 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 2.  SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
    
  For each accounting topic that is addressed in its own footnote, the description of the accounting policy may be found in the related footnote.  The remaining accounting policies are described below. 
    
  Use of Estimates 
    
  The preparation of financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect our results during the periods reported.  Estimates are used to account for certain items such as marketing accruals, warranty costs, employee benefit programs, etc.  Estimates are based on assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances.  Due to the inherent uncertainty involved with estimates, actual results may differ. 
    
  Foreign Currency Translation 
    
  The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries using the local currency as their functional currency are translated to U.S. dollars using end-of-period exchange rates and any resulting translation adjustments are reported in   Other comprehensive income/(loss).    Upon sale or upon complete or substantially complete liquidation of an investment in a foreign subsidiary, the accumulated amount of translation adjustments related to that entity is reclassified to net income as part of the recognized gain or loss on the investment. 
    
  Gains or losses arising from transactions denominated in currencies other than the affiliate's functional currency, the effect of remeasuring assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries using U.S. dollars as their functional currency, and the results of our foreign currency hedging activities are reported in   Automotive cost of sales   and   Selling, administrative, and other expenses.    The pre-tax gain/(loss) of this activity for 2012, 2011, and 2010 was   $(426) million  ,   $4 million  , and   $56 million  , respectively. 
    
  Trade Receivables 
    
  Trade receivables, recorded on our consolidated balance sheet in   Other receivables,     net  , consist primarily of Automotive sector receivables for vehicles, parts, and accessories.  Trade receivables initially are recorded at the transaction amount.  We record an allowance for doubtful accounts representing our estimate of the probable losses inherent in trade receivables.  At every reporting period, we assess the adequacy of our allowance for doubtful accounts taking into consideration recoveries received during that period.  Additions to the allowance for doubtful accounts are made by recording charges to bad debt expense reported in   Automotive cost of sales  .  Receivables are charged to the allowance for doubtful accounts when an account is deemed to be uncollectible.   
    
  Revenue Recognition   Automotive Sector 
    
  Automotive revenue is generated primarily by sales of vehicles, parts and accessories.  Revenue is recorded when all risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to our customers (generally dealers and distributors).  For the majority of our sales, this occurs when products are shipped from our manufacturing facilities.  When vehicles are shipped to customers or vehicle modifiers on consignment, revenue is recognized when the vehicle is sold to the ultimate customer.  When we give our dealers the right to return eligible parts for credit, we reduce the related revenue for expected returns. 
    
  We sell vehicles to daily rental car companies subject to guaranteed repurchase options.  These vehicles are accounted for as operating leases.  At the time of sale, the proceeds are recorded as deferred revenue in   Accrued liabilities and deferred revenue  .  The difference between the proceeds and the guaranteed repurchase amount is recognized in   Automotive revenues   over an average term of   eight   months, using a straight-line method.  The cost of the vehicles is recorded in   Net investment in operating leases   and the difference between the cost of the vehicle and the estimated auction value is depreciated in   Automotive cost of sales   over the term of the lease.  Proceeds from the sale of the vehicle at auction are recognized in   Automotive revenues   at the time of sale.  At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we recorded   $1.5 billion   and   $1.5 billion   as deferred revenue, respectively. 
    
    FS-14 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 2.  SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES   (Continued) 
    
  Revenue Recognition   Financial Services Sector 
    
  Financial Services revenue is generated primarily from interest on finance receivables (including direct financing leases) and is recognized using the interest method.  Certain origination costs on receivables are deferred and amortized over the term of the related receivable as a reduction to revenue.  Revenue from rental payments received on operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.  Initial direct costs related to leases are deferred and amortized over the term of the lease as a reduction to revenue.  The accrual of interest on finance receivables and revenue on operating leases is discontinued at the earlier of the   time a receivable or account is determined to be uncollectible, at bankruptcy status notification, or greater than 120 days past due  . 
    
  Retail and Lease Incentives 
    
  We offer special retail financing and lease incentives to dealers' customers who choose to finance or lease Ford-brand vehicles from Ford Credit.  Generally, the estimated cost for these incentives is recorded as a revenue reduction to   Automotive revenues   when the vehicle is sold to the dealer.  In order to compensate Ford Credit for the lower interest or lease rates offered to the retail customer, we pay the discounted value of the incentive directly to Ford Credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract with the dealer's customer.  The Financial Services sector recognized revenue of   $2.4 billion  ,   $2.8 billion  , and   $3.2 billion   in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively, for the special financing and leasing programs consistent with the earnings process of the underlying receivable or operating lease. 
    
  Sales and Marketing Incentives 
    
  Sales and marketing incentives generally are recognized by the Automotive sector as revenue reductions in   Automotive revenues  .  The incentives take the form of cash payments to dealers and dealers' customers.  The reduction to revenue is accrued at the later of the date the related vehicle is sold or the date the incentive program is both approved and communicated.  We generally estimate these accruals using incentive programs that are approved as of the balance sheet date and are expected to be effective at the beginning of the subsequent period. 
    
  Supplier Price Adjustments 
    
  We frequently negotiate price adjustments with our suppliers throughout a production cycle, even after receiving production material.  These price adjustments relate to changes in design specifications or other commercial terms such as economics, productivity, and competitive pricing.  We recognize price adjustments when we reach final agreement with our suppliers.  In general, we avoid direct price changes in consideration of future business; however, when these occur, our policy is to defer the financial statement impact of any such price change given explicitly in consideration of future business where guaranteed volumes are specified. 
    
  Raw Material Arrangements 
    
  We may, at times, negotiate prices for and facilitate the purchase of raw materials on behalf of our suppliers.  These raw material arrangements, which take place independently of any purchase orders being issued to our suppliers, are negotiated at arms' length and do not involve volume guarantees.  When we pass the risks and rewards of ownership to our suppliers, including inventory risk, market price risk, and credit risk for the raw material, we record both the cost of the raw material and the income from the subsequent sale to the supplier in   Automotive cost of sales  . 
    
  Government Grants and Loan Incentives 
    
  We receive incentives from U.S. and non-U.S. governments in the form of tax rebates or credits, loans, and grants.  Incentives are recorded in the financial statements in accordance with their purpose, either as a reduction of expense or a reduction of the cost of the capital investment.  A premium or a discount is calculated on low-interest or interest-free loans if the stated rate differs from the market rate, unless the governmental authority imposes specific restrictions on the use of the loan proceeds.  The benefit of these incentives generally is recorded when performance is complete and all conditions as specified in the agreement are fulfilled. 
    
    FS-15 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 2.  SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES   (Continued) 
    
  Bonus and Profit Sharing 
    
  We offer various types of bonus and profit sharing benefits to our employees.  The timing for expense recognition depends on the purpose of the bonus and whether the bonus is contingent on the employees  '   future service.  Our more common bonus payments include: 
             
    Ratification bonuses expensed in the period a labor agreement is ratified  
                
    Operational performance bonuses and protection payments expensed equally over the period to payment 
                
    Profit sharing payments accrued throughout the year in which the payment is earned.  Each quarter, we evaluate and adjust the year-to-date accrual to ensure it is consistent with the bonus formula   
       
  We record bonus and profit sharing expenses in   Automotive cost of sales   or   Selling, administrative, and other expenses  . 
    
  Selected Other Costs 
    
  Freight, engineering, and research and development costs are included in   Automotive cost of sales  ; advertising costs are included in   Selling, administrative, and other expenses  .  Freight costs on goods shipped are expensed at the earlier of revenue recognition or as incurred.  Advertising costs are expensed as incurred.  Engineering, research, and development costs are expensed as incurred when performed internally or when performed by a supplier if we guarantee reimbursement.  Engineering, research, development, and advertising expenses for the years ended December 31 were as follows (in billions): 

Presentation of Sales and Sales-Related Taxes 
    
  We collect and remit taxes assessed by different governmental authorities that are both imposed on and concurrent with a revenue-producing transaction between us and our customers.  These taxes may include, but are not limited to, sales, use, value-added, and some excise taxes.  We report the collection of these taxes on a net basis (excluded from revenues). 
    
    NOTE 3.  ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED 
    
  Balance Sheet - Offsetting.    In December 2011,     the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued a new accounting standard that requires disclosures about offsetting and related arrangements for recognized financial instruments and derivative instruments.  The new accounting standard is effective for us as of January 1, 2013. 
    
  Intangibles - Goodwill and Other.    In July 2012, the FASB issued a new accounting standard that provides the option to evaluate qualitative factors to determine whether a calculated impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets is necessary.  The new accounting standard is effective for us as of January 1, 2013. 
    
    FS-16 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 4.  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 
    
  Cash equivalents, marketable securities, and derivative financial instruments are presented in our financial statements on a recurring basis at fair value, while other assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, such as when we have an asset impairment.   
    
  Fair Value Measurements 
    
  In measuring fair value, we use various valuation methodologies and prioritize the use of observable inputs.  The use of observable and unobservable inputs and their significance in measuring fair value are reflected in our fair value hierarchy assessment. 

Level 1 - inputs include quoted prices for identical instruments and are the most observable 
                
    Level 2 - inputs include quoted prices for similar instruments and observable inputs such as interest rates, currency exchange rates, and yield curves 
                
    Level 3 - inputs include data not observable in the market and reflect management judgment about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the instruments 
       
  We review the inputs to the fair value measurements to ensure they are appropriately categorized within the fair value hierarchy.  Transfers into and transfers out of the hierarchy levels are recognized as if they had taken place at the end of the reporting period.    
    
  Valuation Methodologies 
    
  Cash and Cash Equivalents.    Included in   Cash and cash equivalents   are highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash, and which are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value due to interest rate, quoted price, or penalty on withdrawal.  A debt security is classified as a cash equivalent if it meets these criteria and if it has a remaining time to maturity of   90 days or less from the date of acquisition  .  Amounts on deposit and available upon demand, or negotiated to provide for daily liquidity without penalty, are classified as   Cash and cash equivalents  .  Time deposits, certificates of deposit, and money market accounts that meet the above criteria are reported at par value on our balance sheet and are excluded from the tables below. 
    
  Marketable Securities  .  Investments in securities with a   maturity date greater than 90 days at the date of purchase   and other securities for which there is more than an insignificant risk of change in value due to interest rate, quoted price, or penalty on withdrawal are classified as   Marketable securities  .  We generally measure fair value using prices obtained from pricing services.  Pricing methodologies and inputs to valuation models used by the pricing services depend on the security type (i.e., asset class).  Where possible, fair values are generated using market inputs including quoted prices (the closing price in an exchange market), bid prices (the price at which a buyer stands ready to purchase), and other market in  formation.  For fixed income securities that are not actively traded, the pricing services use alternative methods to determine fair value for the securities, including: quotes for similar fixed-income securities, matrix pricing, discounted cash flow using benchmark curves, or other factors to determine fair value.  In certain cases, when market data are not available, we may use broker quotes to determine fair value. 
    
  A review is performed on the security prices received from our pricing services, which includes discussion and analysis of the inputs used by the pricing services to value our securities.  We also compare the price of certain securities sold close to the quarter-end to the price of the same security at the balance sheet date to ensure the reported fair value is reasonable.      
    
    FS-17 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 4.  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS   (Continued) 
    
  Derivative Financial Instruments.    Our derivatives are over-the-counter customized derivative transactions and are not exchange traded.  We estimate the fair value of these instruments using industry-standard valuation models such as a discounted cash flow.  These models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts to a present value using market-based expectations for interest rates, foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, and the contractual terms of the derivative instruments.  The discount rate used is the relevant interbank deposit rate (e.g., LIBOR) plus an adjustment for non-performance risk.  The adjustment reflects the full credit default swap ("CDS") spread applied to a net exposure, by counterparty, considering the master netting agreements and posted collateral.  We use our counterparty's CDS spread when we are in a net asset position and our own CDS spread when we are in a net liability position.  In certain cases, market data are not available and we use broker quotes and models (e.g., Black Scholes) to determine fair value.  This includes situations where there is illiquidity for a particular currency or commodity or for longer-dated instruments.    
    
  Ford Credit's two Ford Upgrade Exchange Linked securitization transactions ("FUEL Notes") had derivative features that included a mandatory exchange to Ford Credit unsecured notes when Ford Credit's senior unsecured debt received two investment grade credit ratings among Fitch, Moody's, and S P, and a make-whole provision.      Ford Credit estimated the fair value of these features by comparing the fair value of the FUEL Notes to the value of a hypothetical debt instrument without these features.  In the second quarter of 2012, Ford Credit received two investment grade credit ratings, thereby triggering the mandatory exchange feature and the FUEL Notes derivatives were extinguished.   
    
  Finance Receivables.    We measure finance receivables at fair value for purposes of disclosure (see Note 7) using internal valuation models.  These models project future cash flows of financing contracts based on scheduled contract payments (including principal and interest).  The projected cash flows are discounted to present value based on assumptions regarding credit losses, pre-payment speed, and   applicable spreads to approximate current rates.  Our assumptions regarding pre-payment speed and credit losses are based on h  istorical performance.  The fair value of finance receivables is categorized within Level 3 of the hierarchy. 
    
  On a nonrecurring basis, when retail contracts are   greater than 120 days past due or deemed to be uncollectible  , or if individual dealer loans are probable of foreclosure, we use the fair value of collateral, adjusted for estimated costs to sell, to determine the fair value adjustment to our receivables.  The collateral for retail receivables is the vehicle financed, and for dealer loans is real estate or other property.   
    
  The fair value measurements for retail receivables are based on the number of contracts multiplied by the loss severity and the probability of default (  "  POD") percentage, or the outstanding receivable balances multiplied by the average recovery value (  "  ARV") percentage to determine the fair value adjustment. 
    
  The fair value measurements for dealer loans are based on an assessment of the estimated fair value of collateral.  The assessment is performed by reviewing various appraisals, which include total adjusted appraised value of land and improvements, alternate use appraised value, broker's opinion of value, and purchase offers.  The fair value adjustment is determined by comparing the net carrying value of the dealer loan and the estimated fair value of collateral. 
    
  Debt.    We measure debt at fair value for purposes of disclosure (see Note 17) using quoted prices for our own debt with approximately the same remaining maturities, where possible.  Where quoted prices are not available, we estimate fair value using discounted cash flows and market-based expectations for interest rates, credit risk, and the contractual terms of the debt instruments.  For certain short-term debt with an original maturity date of one year or less, we assume that book value is a reasonable approximation of the debt's fair value.  The fair value of debt is categorized within Level     2 of the hierarchy. 
     
    FS-18 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 4.  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS   (Continued) 
    
  Input Hierarchy of Items Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis 
    
  The following tables categorize the fair values of items measured at fair value on a recurring basis on our balance sheet (in millions): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Includes notes issued by non-U.S. government agencies, as well as notes issued by supranational institutions. 
              (b) 
    Excludes time deposits, certificates of deposit, money market accounts, and other cash equivalents reported at par value on our balance sheet totaling   $3 billion   and   $4.6 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , respectively, for the Automotive sector.  In addition to these cash equivalents, our Automotive sector also had cash on hand totaling   $2 billion   and   $2.1 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , respectively. 
              (c) 
    Excludes an investment in Ford Credit debt securities held by the Automotive sector with a carrying value of   $201 million   and an estimated fair value of   $201 million   at   December 31, 2011  .  This investment matured in 2012. 
              (d) 
    Includes certificates of deposit and time deposits subject to changes in value. 
              (e) 
    See Note 18 for additional information regarding derivative financial instruments. 
       FS-19 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 4.  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS   (Continued) 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Includes notes issued by non-U.S. government agencies, as well as notes issued by supranational institutions. 
              (b) 
    Excludes time deposits, certificates of deposit, and money market accounts reported at par value on our balance sheet totaling   $6.5 billion   and   $6 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , respectively.  In addition to these cash equivalents, we also had cash on hand totaling   $2.6 billion   and   $3 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , respectively. 
              (c) 
    Includes certificates of deposit and time deposits subject to changes in value. 
              (d) 
    Represents derivative features included in the FUEL Notes. 
              (e) 
    See Note 18 for additional information regarding derivative financial instruments. 

FS-20 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 4.  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS   (Continued) 
    
  Reconciliation of Changes in Level 3 Balances 
    
  The following table summarizes the changes recorded through income in Level 3 items measured at fair value on a recurring basis and reported on our balance sheet for the years ended   December 31   (in millions): 

_________ 
           (a) 
    Represents foreign currency translation on derivative asset and liability balances held by non-U.S. dollar foreign affiliates. 
              (b) 
    The transfer out of Level 3 of   $432 million   in 2011 was primarily the result of management's validation of the observable data and determination that certain unobservable inputs had an insignificant impact on the valuation of these instruments.  The remaining transfers were due to the increase in availability of observable data. 
              (c) 
    Recorded in   Interest expense. 
     (d)    Represents derivative features included in the FUEL Notes. 
  (e)    Reflects exchange of the FUEL Notes to unsecured notes. 
    
    FS-21 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 4.  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS   (Continued) 
    
  Input Hierarchy of Items Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis 
    
  The following table summarizes the items measured at fair value subsequent to initial recognition on a nonrecurring basis by input hierarchy at December 31 that were still held on our balance sheet at those dates (in millions): 

Nonrecurring Fair Value Changes 
    
  The following table summarizes the total change in value of items for which a nonrecurring fair value adjustment has been included in our income statement for the years ended   December 31,   related to items still held on our balance sheet at those dates (in millions): 

Fair value changes related to retail and dealer loan finance receivables that have been written down based on the fair value of collateral adjusted for estimated costs to sell are recorded in   Financial Services provision for credit and insurance losses. 
    
    FS-22 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 4.  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS   (Continued) 
    
  Information About Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) 
    
  The following table summarizes significant unobservable inputs and the variability of those inputs to alternate methodologies for the year ended   December 31, 2012   (in millions): 
                               
    Fair Value 
      
    Valuation Technique 
      
    Unobservable Input 
      
    Fair Value Range 
      Automotive Sector 

Recurring basis 

Net commodity contracts 
    $(8) 
      
    Income Approach 
      
    Forward commodity prices for certain commodity types.  A lower forward price will result in a lower fair value. 
      
    $(7) - $(8) 
      Financial Services Sector 

Nonrecurring basis 

Retail receivables 

North America 
    $52 
      
    Income Approach 
      
    POD percentage 
      
    $38 - $52 
      International 
    $26 
      
    Income Approach 
      
    ARV percentage 
      
    $25 - $27 
      Dealer loans 
    $2 
      
    Income Approach 
      
    Estimated fair value 
      
    $1 - $3 

NOTE 5.  RESTRICTED CASH 
    
  Cash and cash equivalents that are restricted as to withdrawal or use under the terms of certain contractual agreements are recorded in   Other assets   on our balance     sheet.  
    
  Our Automotive sector restricted cash balances primarily include cash collateral required to be held against loans from the European Investment Bank ("EIB").  Additionally, restricted cash includes various escrow agreements related to legal, insurance, customs, and environmental matters.  Our Financial Services sector restricted cash balances primarily include cash held to meet certain local governmental and regulatory     reserve requirements and cash held under the terms of certain contractual agreements.   
    
  Restricted cash does not include required minimum balances or cash securing debt issued through securitization transactions. 
    
  Restricted cash balances were as follows (in millions): 

FS-23 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 6.  MARKETABLE AND OTHER SECURITIES 
    
  We hold various investments classified as marketable securities, including U.S. government and non-U.S. government secur  ities, securities issued by non-U.S. governme  nt agencies, corporate obligations and equities, and asset-backed securities.   
    
  We record marketable securities at fair value.  Realized and unrealized gains and losses and interest income are recorded in   Automotive interest income and other income/(expense), net   and   Financial Services other income/(loss), net  .  Realized gains and losses are measured using the specific identification method. 
    
  Investments in Marketable Securities 
    
  Investments in marketable securities were as follows (in millions): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Unrealized gains/(losses) for period related to instruments still held. 
              (b) 
    "Fair Value" reflects an investment in Ford Credit debt securities shown at a carrying value of   $201 million   (estimated fair value of which was   $201 million  ) at December 31, 2011.  This investment matured in 2012.   
       
  Other Securities 
    
  Investments in entities that we do not control and over which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence are recorded at cost and included in   Other assets.    These cost method investments were as follows (in millions): 

FS-24 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 7.  FINANCE RECEIVABLES 
    
  Finance receivable balances were as follows (in millions): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Finance receivables are reported on our sector balance sheet in   Receivables, less allowances   and   Other assets  .  
       
  Automotive Sector 
    
  Our Automotive sector notes receivable consist primarily of amounts loaned to our unconsolidated affiliates.  Performance of this group of receivables is evaluated based on payment activity and the financial stability of the debtor.  Notes receivable initially are recorded at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost.    
    
  Notes receivable, net were as follows (in millions): 

Financial Services Sector 
    
  Our Financial Services sector finance receivables primarily relate to Ford Credit, but also include the Other Financial Services segment and certain intersector eliminations.   
    
  Our Financial Services sector segments the North America and International portfolio of finance receivables into "consumer" and "non-consumer" receivables.  The receivables are secured by the vehicles, inventory, or other property being financed. 
    
  Consumer Segment.    Receivables in this portfolio segment include products offered to individuals and businesses that finance the acquisition of Ford and Lincoln vehicles from dealers for personal or commercial use.  Retail financing includes retail installment contracts for new and used vehicles and direct financing leases with retail customers, government entities, daily rental companies, and fleet customers. 
    
  Non-Consumer Segment.    Receivables in this portfolio segment include products offered to automotive dealers.  The products include: 

Dealer financing     wholesale loans to dealers to finance the purchase of vehicle inventory, also known as floorplan financing, and loans to dealers to finance working capital and improvements to dealership facilities, finance the purchase of dealership real estate, and other dealer vehicle program financing.  Wholesale is approximately   95%   of our dealer financing 
                
    Other financing     purchased receivables primarily related to the sale of parts and accessories to dealers 
       
  Finance receivables are recorded at the time of origination or purchase for the principal amount financed and are subsequently reported at amortized cost, net of any allowance for credit losses.  Amortized cost is the outstanding principal adjusted for any charge-offs, unamortized deferred fees or costs, and unearned interest supplements. 
    
    FS-25 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 7.  FINANCE RECEIVABLES   (Continued) 
    
  Finance receivables, net were as follows (in millions): 

__________ 
           (a)  
    At   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , excludes   $2.2 billion   and   $2.6 billion  , respectively, of certain receivables (primarily direct financing leases) that are not subject to fair value disclosure requirements.  All finance receivables are categorized within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.  See Note 4 for additional information. 
       
  Excluded from Financial Services sector finance receivables at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , was   $183 million   and   $180 million  , respectively, of accrued uncollected interest receivable, which we report in   Other assets   on the balance sheet. 
    
  Included in the recorded investment in finance receivables at   December 31, 2012   and   2011   were North America consumer receivables of   $23 billion   and   $29.4 billion   and non-consumer receivables of   $17.1 billion   and   $14.2 billion  , respectively, and International consumer receivables of   $6.6 billion   and   $7.1 billion   and non-consumer receivables of   $4.5 billion   and   $5.6 billion  , respectively, that secure certain debt obligations.  The receivables are available only for payment of the debt and other obligations issued or arising in securitization transactions; they are not available to pay the other obligations of our Financial Services sector or the claims of our other creditors.  We hold the right to receive the excess cash flows not needed to pay the debt and other obligations issued or arising in securitization transactions (see Notes 12 and 17). 

FS-26 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 7.  FINANCE RECEIVABLES   (Continued) 
    
  Contractual maturities of total finance receivables, excluding unearned interest supplements, outstanding at   December 31, 2012   reflect contractual repayments due from customers or borrowers as follows (in millions): 

Our finance receivables are pre-payable without penalty, so prepayments may cause actual maturities to differ from contractual maturities.  The above table, therefore, is not to be regarded as a forecast of future cash collections.  For wholesale rece  ivables, which are included in dealer financing, maturities stated   above are estimated based on historical trends, as maturities on outstanding amounts are scheduled upon the sale of the underlying vehicle by the dealer. 
    
  Investment in direct financing leases, which are included in consumer receivables, were as follows (in millions): 

Future minimum rental payments due from direct financing leases at December 31, 2012 were as follows (in millions): 

FS-27 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 7.  FINANCE RECEIVABLES   (Continued) 
    
  Aging.    For all classes of finance receivables, we define "past due" as   any payment, including principal and interest, that has not been collected and is at least 31 days past the contractual due date  .   Recorded investment of consumer accounts greater than 90 days past due and still accruing interest was   $13 million   and   $14 million   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , respectively.  The recorded investment of non-consumer accounts greater than 90 days past due and still accruing interest was   $5 million   and de minimis at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , respectively.  
    
  The aging analysis of our Financial Services sector finance receivables balances at December 31 were as follows (in millions):  

Consumer Credit Quality  .  When originating all classes of consumer receivables, we use a proprietary scoring system that measures the credit quality of the receivables using several factors, such as credit bureau information, consumer credit risk scores (e.g., FICO score), and contract characteristics.  In addition to our proprietary scoring system, we consider other individual consumer factors, such as employment history, financial stability, and capacity to pay.   
       
  Subsequent to origination, we review the credit quality of retail and direct financing lease receivables based on customer payment activity.  As each customer develops a payment history, we use an internally-developed behavioral scoring model to assist in determining the best collection strategies.  Based on data from this scoring model, contracts are categorized by collection risk.  Our collection models evaluate several factors, including origination characteristics, updated credit bureau data, and payment patterns.  These models allow for more focused collection activity on higher-risk accounts and are used to refine our risk-based staffing model to ensure collection resources are aligned with portfolio risk. 
    
  Credit quality ratings for our consumer receivables are based on aging (as described in the aging table above).  Consumer receivables credit quality ratings are as follows: 

Pass       current to 60 days past due    
                
    Special Mention     61 to 120 days past due and in intensified collection status 
                
    Substandard       greater than 120 days past due   and for which the uncollectible portion of the receivables has already been charged-off, as measured using the fair value of collateral 
       
    FS-28 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 7.  FINANCE RECEIVABLES   (Continued) 
    
  Non-Consumer Credit Quality  .  We extend credit to dealers primarily in the form of lines of credit to purchase new Ford and Lincoln vehicles as well as used vehicles.  Each non-consumer lending request is evaluated by taking into consideration the borrower's financial condition and the underlying collateral securing the loan.  We use a proprietary model to assign each dealer a risk rating.  This model uses historical performance data to identify key factors about a dealer that we consider significant in predicting a dealer's ability to meet its financial obligations.  We also consider numerous other financial and qualitative factors including capitalization and leverage, liquidity and cash flow, profitability, and credit history with ourselves and other creditors.  A dealer's risk rating does not reflect any guarantees or a dealer owner's net worth.   
    
  Dealers are assigned to one of four groups according to their risk rating as follows: 

Group I     strong to superior financial metrics 
                
    Group II     fair to favorable financial metrics 
                
    Group III     marginal to weak financial metrics 
                
    Group IV     poor financial metrics, including dealers classified as uncollectible 
       
  We suspend credit lines and extend no further funding to dealers classified in Group IV. 
    
  We regularly review our model to confirm the continued business significance and statistical predictability of the factors and update the model to incorporate new factors or other information that improves its statistical predictability.  In addition, we verify the existence of the assets collateralizing the receivables by physical audits of vehicle inventories, which are performed with increased frequency for higher-risk (i.e., Group III and Group IV) dealers.  We perform a credit review of each dealer at least annually and adjust the dealer's risk rating, if necessary. 

Performance of non-consumer receivables is evaluated based on our internal dealer risk rating analysis, as payment for wholesale receivables generally is not required until the dealer has sold the vehicle.  A dealer has the same risk rating for all of its dealer financing regardless of the type of financing.   
    
  The credit quality analysis of our dealer financing receivables at December 31 were as follows (in millions): 

FS-29 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 7.  FINANCE RECEIVABLES   (Continued) 
    
   Impaired Receivables.      Impaired consumer receivables include accounts that have been re-written or modified in reorganization proceedings pursuant to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code that are considered to be Troubled Debt Restructurings ("TDRs"), as well as all accounts   greater than 120 days past due  .  Impaired non-consumer receivables represent accounts with dealers that have weak or poor financial metrics or dealer financing that have been modified in TDRs.  The recorded investment of consumer receivables that were impaired at   December 31, 2012   and   2011   was   $422 million   or   0.9%   of consumer receivables, and   $382 million   or   0.8%   of consumer receivables, respectively.  The recorded investment of non-consumer receivables that were impaired at   December 31, 2012   and   2011   was   $47 million   or   0.2%   of non-consumer receivables, and   $64 million   or   0.2%   of the non-consumer receivables, respectively.  Impaired finance receivables are evaluated both collectively and specifically.  See Note 9 for additional information related to the development of our allowance for credit losses. 
    
  Non-Accrual Receivables.      The accrual of revenue is discontinued at the earlier of the   time a receivable is determined to be uncollectible, at bankruptcy status notification, or greater than 120 days past due  .  Accounts may be restored to accrual status only when a customer settles all past-due deficiency balances and future payments are reasonably assured.  For receivables in non-accrual status, subsequent financing revenue is recognized only to the extent a payment is received.  Payments generally are applied first to outstanding interest and then to the unpaid principal balance.   
    
  The recorded investment of consumer receivables in non-accrual status was   $304 million   or   0.6%   of our consumer receivables, at   December 31, 2012  , and   $402 million   or   0.9%   of our consumer receivables, at   December 31, 2011  .  The recorded investment of non-consumer receivables in non-accrual status was   $29 million   or   0.1%   of our non-consumer receivables, at   December 31, 2012  , and   $27 million   or   0.1%   of our non-consumer receivables, at   December 31, 2011  .  
    
  Troubled Debt Restructurings.      A restructuring of debt constitutes a TDR if we grant a concession to a customer or borrower for economic or legal reasons related to the debtor's financial difficulties that we otherwise would not consider.  Consumer contracts that have a modified interest rate that is below the market rate and those modified in reorganization proceedings pursuant to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code are considered to be TDRs.  Non-consumer receivables subject to forbearance, moratoriums, extension agreements, or other actions intended to minimize economic loss and to avoid foreclosure or repossession of collateral are classified as TDRs.  We do not grant concessions on the principal balance of our loans.  If a contract is modified in reorganization proceeding, all payment requirements of the reorganization plan need to be met before remaining balances are forgiven.  The outstanding recorded investment at time of modification for consumer receivables that are considered to be TDRs were   $249 million   or   0.5%   and   $370 million   or   0.8%   of our consumer receivables during the period ended  
  December 31, 2012   and   2011  , respectively.  The subsequent default rate of TDRs that were previously modified in TDRs within the last twelve months and resulted in repossession for consumer contracts was   5.8%   and   3.7%   of TDRs at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , respectively.  The outstanding recorded investment of non-consumer loans involved in TDRs was de minimis during the years ended   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . 
    
  Finance receivables involved in TDRs are specifically assessed for impairment.  An impairment charge is recorded as part of the provision to the allowance for credit losses for the amount that the recorded investment of the receivable exceeds its estimated fair value.  Estimated fair value is based on either the present value of the expected future cash flows of the receivable discounted at the loan's original effective interest rate, or for loans where foreclosure is probable the fair value of the collateral adjusted for estimated costs to sell.  The allowance for credit losses related to consumer TDRs was   $19 million   and   $16 million   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , respectively.  The allowance for credit losses related to non-consumer TDRs was de minimis during the years ended   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . 

FS-30 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 8.  NET INVESTMENT IN OPERATING LEASES 
    
  Net investment in operating leases   on our balance sheet consists primarily of lease contracts for vehicles with retail customers, daily rental companies, government entities, and fleet customers.  Assets subject to operating leases are depre  ciated using the straight-l  ine method over the term of the lease to reduce the asset to its estimated residual value.  Estimated residual values are based on assumptions for used vehicle prices at lease termination and the number of vehicles that are expected to be returned. 
    
  Net Investment in Operating Leases 
    
  The net investment in operating leases was as follows (in millions): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Includes Ford Credit's operating lease assets of   $6.3 billion   and   $6.4 billion   at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, for which the related cash flows have been used to secure certain lease securitization transactions.  Cash flows associated with the net investment in operating leases are available only for payment of the debt or other obligations issued or arising in the securitization transactions; they are not available to pay other obligations or the claims of other creditors. 
       
  Automotive Sector 
    
  Operating lease depreciation expense (which excludes gains and losses on disposal of assets) for the years ended December 31 was as follows (in millions): 

Included in   Automotive revenues   are rents on operating leases.  The amount contractually due for minimum rentals on operating leases is   $110 million   for 2013. 
    
  Financial Services Sector 
    
  Operating lease depreciation expense (which includes gains and losses on disposal of assets) for the years ended December 31 was as follows (in millions): 

Included in   Financial Services revenues   are rents on operating leases.  The amounts contractually due for minimum rentals on operating le  ases as of December 31, 2012 are as follows (in   millions): 

FS-31 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 9.  ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES 
    
  Automotive Sector 
    
  We estimate credit loss reserves for notes receivable on an individual receivable basis.  A specific impairment allowance reserve is established based on expected future cash flows, the fair value of any collateral, and the financial condition of the debtor.  Following is an analysis of the allowance for credit losses for the years ended   December 31   (in millions):  

Financial Services Sector  
    
  The allowance for credit losses represents our estimate of the probable loss on the collection of finance receivables and operating leases as of the balance sheet date.  The adequacy of the allowance for credit losses is assessed quarterly and the assumptions and models used in establishing the allowance are evaluated regularly.  Because credit losses may vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain.  The majority of credit losses are attributable to Ford Credit's consumer receivables segment.   
    
  Additions to the allowance for credit losses are made by recording charges to   Provision for credit and insurance losses   on the sector income statement.  The uncollectible portion of finance receivables and investments in operating leases are charged to the allowance for credit losses at the earlier of   when an account is deemed to be uncollectible or when an account is 120 days delinquent  , taking into consideration the financial condition of the customer, borrower, or lessee, the value of the collateral, recourse to guarantors, and other factors.  In the event we repossess the collateral, the receivable is written off and we record the collateral at its estimated fair value less costs to sell and report it in   Other assets   on the balance sheet.  Recoveries on finance receivables and investment in operating leases previously charged-off as uncollectible are credited to the allowance for credit losses. 
    
  Consumer  
    
  We estimate the allowance for credit loss  es on our consumer receivables and on our investments i  n operating leases using a combination of measurement models and management judgment.  The models consider factors such as historical trends in credit losses and recoveries (including key metrics such as delinquencies, repossessions, and bankruptcies), the composition of the present portfolio (including vehicle brand, term, risk evaluation, and new/used vehicles), trends in historical and projected used vehicle values, and economic conditions.  Estimates from these models rely on historical information and may not fully reflect losses inherent in the present portfolio.  Therefore, we may adjust the estimate to reflect management judgment regarding justifiable changes in recent economic trends and conditions, portfolio composition, and other relevant factors. 
    
  We make projections of two key assumptions to assist in estimating the consumer allowance for credit losses: 

Frequency - number of finance rec  eivables and operating lease contracts that are expected to default over the loss emergence period, measured as repossessions 
                
    Loss severity - expected difference between the amount of money a customer owes when the finance contract is charged off and the amount received, net of expenses from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer 

FS-32 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 9.  ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES   (Continued) 
    
  Collective Allowance for Credit Losses.    The collective allowance is evaluated primarily using a collective loss-to-receivables ("LTR") model that, based on historical experience, indicates credit losses have been incurred in the portfolio even though the particular accounts that are uncollectible cannot be specifically identified.  The LTR model is based on the most recent years of history.  Each LTR is calculated by dividing credit losses by average end-of-period receivables or average end-of-period investment in operating leases, excluding unearned interest supplements and allowance for credit losses.  An average LTR is calculated for each class and multiplied by the end-of-period balances for that given class.   
    
  The loss emergence period ("LEP") is a key assumption within our models and represents the average amount of time between when a loss event first occurs and when it is charged off.  This time period starts when the consumer begins to experience financial difficulty.  It is evidenced, typically through delinquency, before eventually resulting in a charge-off.  The LEP is a multiplier in the calculation of the collective consumer allowance for credit losses. 
    
  For accounts   greater than 120 days past due  , the uncollectible portion is charged-off such that the remaining recorded investment is equal to the estimated fair value of the collateral less costs to sell. 
    
  Specific Allowance for Impaired Receivables  .  Consumer receivables involved in TDRs are specifically assessed for impairment.  A specific allowance is estimated based on the present value of the expected future cash flows of the receivable discounted at the loan's original effective interest rate or the fair value of any collateral adjusted for estimated costs to sell.   
    
  After establishing the collective and specific allowance for credit losses, if management believes the allowance does not reflect all losses inherent in the portfolio due to changes in recent economic trends and conditions, or other relevant factors, an adjustment is made based on management judgment. 
    
  Non-Consumer  
    
  We estimate the allowance for credit losses for non-consumer receivables based on historical LTR ratios, expected future cash flows, and the fair value of collateral.   
    
  Collective Allowance for Credit Losses  .  We estimate an allowance for non-consumer receivables that are not specifically identified as impaired using a LTR model for each financing product based on historical experience.  This LTR is an average of the most recent historical experience and is calculated consistent with the consumer receivables LTR approach.  All accounts that are specifically identified as impaired are excluded from the calculation of the non-specific or collective allowance.  
    
  Specific Allowance for Impaired Receivabl  es  .  The dealer financing is eva  luated by segmenting individual loans by the risk characteristics of the loan (such as the amount of the loan, the nature of the collateral, and the financial status of the debtor).  The loans are analyzed to determine whether individual loans are impaired, and a specific allowance is estimated based on the present value of the expected future cash flows of the receivable discounted at the loan's original effective interest rate or the fair value of the collateral adjusted for estimated costs to sell. 
    
  After establishment of the collective and the specific allowance for credit losses, if management believes the allowance does not reflect all losses inherent in the portfolio due to changes in recent economic trends and conditions or other relevant factors, an adjustment is made based on management judgment.   
    FS-33 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 9.  ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES   (Continued) 
    
  Following is an analysis of the allowance for credit losses related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases for the years ended   December 31   (in millions): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Represents amounts related to translation adjustments. 
              (b) 
    Represents finance receivables and net investment in operating leases before allowance for credit losses. 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Represents amounts related to translation adjustments. 
              (b) 
    Represents finance receivables and net investment in operating leases before allowance for credit losses. 

FS-34 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 10.  INVENTORIES 
    
  All inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.  Cost for a substantial portion of U.S. inventories is determined on a last-in, first-out ("LIFO") basis.  LIFO was used for approximately   18%   and   17%   of total inventories at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , respectively.  Cost of other inventories is determined by costing methods that approximate a first-in, first-out ("FIFO") basis. 
    
  Inventories were as follows (in millions): 

FS-35 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 11.  EQUITY IN NET ASSETS OF AFFILIATED COMPANIES 
    
  We use the equity method of accounting for our investments in entities over which we do not have control, but over whose operating and financial policies we are able to exercise significant influence. 
    
  Ownership Percentages and Investment Balances 
    
  The following table reflects our ownership percentages and carrying value of equity method investments (in millions, except percentages): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    See Note 25 for additional information. 
              (b) 
    Although we manage the day-to-day operations for Ford Romania, through December 31, 2012 the Romanian government contractually maintained the ability to influence key decisions regarding the business, including implementation of the business plan, employment levels, and capital expenditure and investment levels. As a result, we did not consolidate our investment in Ford Romania as of year-end 2012. 
       
  We received   $610 million  ,   $316 million  , and   $337 million   of dividends from these affiliated companies for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. 
    FS-36 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 12.  VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES 
    
  A VIE is an entity that either (i) has insufficient equity to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support or (ii) has equity investors who lack the characteristics of a controlling financial interest.  A VIE is consolidated by its primary beneficiary.  The primary beneficiary has both the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE.  
    
  We have the power to direct the activities of an entity when our management has the ability to make key operating decisions, such as decisions regarding capital or product investment or manufacturing production schedules.  We have the power to direct the activities of our special purpose entities when we have the ability to exercise discretion in the servicing of financial assets, issue additional debt, exercise a unilateral call option, add assets to revolving structures, or control investment decisions. 
         
  Assets recognized as a result of consolidating these VIEs do not represent additional assets that could be used to satisfy claims against our general assets.  Conversely, liabilities recognized as a result of consolidating these VIEs do not represent additional claims on our general assets; rather, they represent claims against the specific assets of the consolidated VIEs. 
    
  Automotive Sector 
    
  VIEs of Which We are Not the Primary Beneficiary 
    
  Getrag Ford Transmissions GmbH ("GFT") is a joint venture that constitutes a significant VIE of which we are not the primary beneficiary, and which was not consolidated as of   December 31, 2012   or   December 31, 2011  .  GFT is a   50  /  50   joint venture with Getrag Deutsche Venture GmbH and Co. KG.  Ford and its related parties purchase substantially all of the joint venture's output.  We do not, however, have the power to direct economically-significant activities of the joint venture.  
    
  We also have suppliers that are VIEs of which we are not the primary beneficiary.  Although we have provided certain suppliers guarantees and other financial support, we do not have any key decision making power related to their businesses. 
    
  Our maximum exposure to loss from VIEs of which we are not the primary beneficiary was as follows (in millions): 

Financial Services Sector 
    
  VIEs of Which We are the Primary Beneficiary 
    
  Our Financial Services sector uses special purpose entities to issue asset-backed securities in transactions to public and private investors, bank conduits, and government-sponsored entities or others who obtain funding from government programs.  We have deemed most of these special purpose entities to be VIEs.  The asset-backed securities are secured by finance receivables and interests in net investments in operating leases.  The assets continue to be consolidated by us.  We retain interests in our securitization VIEs, including subordinated securities issued by the VIEs, rights to cash held for the benefit of the securitization investors, and rights to the excess cash flows not needed to pay the debt and other obligations issued or arising in the securitization transactions. 
    
  The transactions create and pass along risks to the variable interest holders, depending on the assets securing the debt and the specific terms of the transactions.  We aggregate and analyze the asset-backed securitization transactions based on the risk profile of the product and the type of funding structure, including: 

Retail - consumer credit risk and pre-payment risk 
                
    Wholesale - dealer credit risk 
                
    Net investments in operating lease - vehicle residual value risk, consumer credit risk, and pre-payment risk 
       
    FS-37 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 12.  VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES   (Continued) 
    
  As a residual interest holder, we are exposed to the underlying residual and credit risk of the collateral, and are exposed to interest rate risk in some transactions.  The amount of risk absorbed by our residual interests generally is represented by and limited to the amount of overcollaterization of the assets securing the debt and any cash reserves. 
    
  We have no obligation to repurchase or replace any securitized asset that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default, except under standard representations and warranties such as good and marketable title to the assets, or when certain changes are made to the underlying asset contracts.  Securitization investors have no recourse to us or our other assets and have no right to require us to repurchase the investments.  We generally have no obligation to provide liquidity or contribute cash or additional assets to the VIEs and do not guarantee any asset-backed securities.  We may be required to support the performance of certain securitization transactions, however, by increasing cash reserves.   
    
  Although not contractually required, we regularly support our wholesale securitization programs by repurchasing receivables of a dealer from a VIE when the dealer's performance is at risk, which transfers the corresponding risk of loss from the VIE to us.  In order to continue to fund the wholesale receivables, we also may contribute additional cash or wholesale receivables if the collateral falls below required levels.  The balances of cash related to these contributions were   $0   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , respectively, and ranged from   $0   to   $373 million   during 2012 and   $0   to   $490 million   during 2011.  In addition, while not contractually required, we may purchase the commercial paper issued by Ford Credit's FCAR Owner Trust asset-backed commercial paper program ("FCAR"). 
    
  The following table includes assets to be used to settle the liabilities of the consolidated VIEs.  We may retain debt issued by consolidated VIEs and this debt is excluded from the table below.  We hold the right to the excess cash flows from the assets that are not needed to pay liabilities of the consolidated VIEs.  The assets and debt reflected on our consolidated balance sheet were as follows (in billions): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Certain notes issued by the VIEs to affiliated companies served as collateral for accessing the European Central Bank ("ECB") open market operations program.  This external funding of   $145 million   at   December 31, 2012   was not reflected as debt of the VIEs and is excluded from the table above, but was included in our consolidated debt. The finance receivables backing this external funding are included in the table above. 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Certain notes issued by the VIEs to affiliated companies served as collateral for accessing the ECB open market operations program.  This external funding of   $246 million   at   December 31, 2011   was not reflected as debt of the VIEs and is excluded from the table above, but was included in our consolidated debt. The finance receivables backing this external funding are included in the table above. 
       
    FS-38 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 12.  VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES   (Continued) 
    
  Interest expense on securitization debt related to consolidated VIEs was   $760 million  ,   $994 million  , and   $1,247 million   in   2012  ,   2011  , and 2010, respectively. 
    
  VIEs that are exposed to interest rate or currency risk have reduced their risks by entering into derivative transactions.  In certain instances, we have entered into offsetting derivative transactions with the VIE to protect the VIE from the risks that are not mitigated through the derivative transactions between the VIE and its external counterparty.  In other instances, we have entered into derivative transactions with the counterparty to protect the counterparty from risks absorbed through derivative transactions with the VIEs.  See Note 18 for additional information regarding the accounting for derivatives. 
    
  Our exposures based on the fair value of derivative instruments with external counterparties related to consolidated VIEs that support our securitization transactions were as follows (in millions): 

Derivative expense/(income) related to consolidated VIEs that support Ford Credit's securitization programs for the years ended   December 31   was as follows (in millions): 

VIEs of Which We are Not the Primary Beneficiary 
    
  We have an investment in Forso Nordic AB, a joint venture determined to be a VIE of which we are not the primary beneficiary.  The joint venture provides consumer and dealer financing in its local markets and is financed by external debt and additional subordinated debt provided by the joint venture partner.  The operating agreement indicates that the power to direct economically significant activities is shared with the joint venture partner, and the obligation to absorb losses or right to receive benefits resides primarily with the joint venture partner.  Our investment in the joint venture is accounted for as an equity method investment and is included in   Equity in net assets of affiliated companies  .  Our maximum exposure to any potential losses associated with this VIE is limited to our equity investment, and amounted to   $71 million   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , respectively. 
    
    FS-39 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 13.  NET PROPERTY AND LEASE COMMITMENTS 
    
  Net Property 
    
  Net property includes land, buildings and land improvements, machinery and equipment, special tools, and other assets that we use in our normal operations.  These assets are recorded at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and impairments.  We capitalize new assets when we expect to use the asset for   more than one year  .  Routine maintenance and repair costs are expensed when incurred. 
    
  Property and equipment are depreciated primarily using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the asset.  Useful lives range from   3   years to   36   years.  The estimated useful lives generally are   14.5   years for machinery and equipment,   3   years for software (  8   years for mainframe and client based so  ftware),   30   years for land improvements, a  nd   36   years for buildings.  Special tools generally are amortized over the expected life of a product program using a straight-line method.  If the expected production volumes for major product programs associated with the tools decline significantly, we accelerate the amortization reflecting the rate of decline. 
    
  Net property was as follows (in millions): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Included in   Financial Services other assets   on our sector balance sheet. 
       
  Automotive sector property-related expenses for the years ended   December 31   were as follows (in millions): 

Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations 
    
  We accrue for costs related to legal obligations to perform certain activities in connection with the retirement, abandonment, or disposal of our assets for which the fair value can be reasonably estimated.      These conditional asset retirement obligations relate to the estimated costs for asbestos abatement and removal of polychlorinated biphenyl (  "  PCB  "  ). 
    
  Asbestos abatement costs were estimated using site-specific surveys where available and a per/square foot estimate where surveys were unavailable.  PCB removal costs were based on historical removal costs per transformer and applied to transformers identified by a PCB transformer global survey we conducted.     

FS-40 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 13.  NET PROPERTY AND LEASE COMMITMENTS   (Continued) 
    
  The liability for our conditional asset retirement obligations which are recorded in   Accrued liabilities and deferred revenue   was as follows (in millions): 

Lease Commitments 
    
  We lease land, buildings, and equipment under agreements that expire over various contractual periods.  Minimum non-cancelable operating lease commitme  nts at December 31, 2012 were as fo  llows (in millions): 

Operating lease expense for the years ended December 31 was as follows (in millions): 

NOTE 14.  NET INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
    
  Our intangible assets are comprised primarily of license and advertising agreements, land rights, patents, customer contracts, and technology, and each is amortized over its determinable life. 
    
  The components of net intangible assets were as follows (in millions): 

Amortization periods primarily range from   5 years   to   25 years   for our license and advertising agreements, from  
  40 years   to   50 years   for our land rights, and primarily from   7   years to   17   years for our patents.  Our other intangibles (primarily customer contracts and technology) have various amortization periods. 
    
  Pre-tax amortization expense for the periods ending   December 31   was as follows (in millions): 

Amortization for current intangible assets is forecasted to be approximately   $10 million   in 2013 and each year thereafter. 
    
    FS-41 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 15.  ACCRUED LIABILITIES AND DEFERRED REVENUE 
    
  Accrued liabilities and deferred revenue were as follows (in millions): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Accrued interest related to Ford's acquisition of Ford Credit debt securities.  See Note 17 for additional details. 
       FS-42 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 16.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS 
    
  We provide pension benefits and OPEB, such as health care and life insurance, to employees in many of our operations around the world.  Plan obligations are measured based on the present value of projected future benefit payments for all participants for services rendered to date.  The measurement of projected future benefits is dependent on the provisions of each specific plan, demographics of the group covered by the plan, and other key measurement assumptions.  For plans that provide benefits dependent on salary assumptions, we include a projection of salary growth in our measurements.  No assumption is made regarding any potential changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). 
    
  The net periodic benefit costs associated with the Company's defined benefit pension plans are determined using assumptions regarding the benefit obligation and the market-related value of plan assets as of the beginning of each year.  We have elected to use a market-related value of plan assets to calculate the expected return on assets in net periodic benefit costs.  The market-related value recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets in a systematic manner over   five   years.  Net periodic benefit costs are recorded in   Automotive cost of sales   and   Selling, administrative, and other expenses  .  The funded status of the benefit plans, which represents the difference between the benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets, is calculated on a plan-by-plan basis.  The benefit obligation and related funded status are determined using assumptions as of the end of each year.  The impact of plan amendments and actuarial gains and losses are recorded in   Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)   and generally are amortized as a component of net periodic cost over the remaining service period of our active employees.  We record a curtailment when an event occurs that significantly reduces the expected years of future service or eliminates the accrual of defined benefits for the future services of a significant number of employees.  We record a curtailment gain when the employees who are entitled to the benefits terminate their employment; we record a curtailment loss when it becomes probable a loss will occur. 
    
  Our policy for funded pension plans is to contribute annually, at a minimum, amounts required by applicable laws and regulations.  We may make contributions beyond those legally required.  In general, our plans are funded, with the main exceptions being certain plans in Germany, and U.S. defined benefit plans for senior management.  In such cases, an unfunded liability is recorded. 
    
  Employee Retirement and Savings Plans.    We, and certain of our subsidiaries, sponsor plans to provide pension benefits for retired employees.  We have qualified defined benefit retirement plans in the United States covering hourly and salaried employees.  The principal hourly plan covers Ford employees represented by the UAW.  The salaried plan covers substantially all other Ford employees in the United States hired on or before December 31, 2003.  The hourly plan provides noncontributory benefits related to employee service.  The salaried plan provides similar noncontributory benefits and contributory benefits related to pay and service.  Other U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries have separate plans that generally provide similar types of benefits for their employees.   
    
  We established, effective January 1, 2004, a defined contribution plan covering salaried U.S. employees hired on or after that date.  Effective October 24, 2011, hourly U.S. employees represented by the UAW hired on or after that date also participate in a defined contribution plan. 
    
  On April 27, 2012, we announced a program to offer voluntary lump-sum pension payout options to eligible salaried U.S. retirees and former salaried employees that, if accepted, would settle our obligation to them.  The program provides participants with a one-time choice of electing to receive a lump-sum settlement of their remaining pension benefit.  Offers to eligible participants began in August 2012 and will continue through 2013.  In 2012, as part of this voluntary lump sum program, the Company settled   $1.2 billion   of its pension obligations for salaried retirees. 
    
  The expense for our worldwide defined contribution plans was   $167 million  ,   $131 million  , and   $123 million   in   2012  , 2011, and 2010, respectively.  This includes the expense for company matching contributions to our primary employee savings plan in the United States of   $70 million  ,   $54 million  , and   $52 million   in   2012  , 2011, and 2010, respectively.   
    
  OPEB  .  We, and certain of our subsidiaries, sponsor plans to provide OPEB for retired employees, primarily certain health care and life insurance benefits.  The Ford Salaried Health Care Plan (the "Plan") provides retiree health care benefits for Ford salaried employees in the United States hired before June 1, 2001.  U.S. salaried employees hired on or after June 1, 2001 are covered by a separate plan that provides for annual company allocations to employee-specific notional accounts to be used to fund postretirement health care benefits.  The Plan also covers Ford hourly non-UAW represented employees in the United States hired before November 19, 2007.  U.S. hourly employees hired on or after November 19, 2007 are eligible to participate in a separate health care plan that provides defined contributions made by Ford to individual participant accounts.  UAW-represented employees hired before November 19, 2007 are covered by the UAW Retiree Medical Benefits Trust (the "UAW VEBA Trust"), an independent, non-Ford sponsored voluntary employee beneficiary association trust.  Company-paid postretirement life insurance benefits also are provided to U.S. salaried employees hired before January 1, 2004 and all U.S. hourly employees. 
    FS-43 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 16.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS   (Continued) 
    
  Effective August 1, 2008, the Company-paid retiree basic life insurance benefits were capped at   $25,000   for eligible existing and future salaried retirees.  Salaried employees hired on or after January 1, 2004 are not eligible for retiree basic life insurance.  
    
  Benefit Plans   Expense and Status 
    
  The measurement date for all of our worldwide postretirement benefit plans is December 31.  The pre-tax expense for our defined benefit pension and OPEB plans for the years ended   December 31   was as follows (in millions):                                       

FS-44 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 16.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS   (Continued) 
    
  The year-end status of these plans was as follows (dollar amounts in millions): 

FS-45 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 16.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS   (Continued) 
    
  As a result of various personnel-reduction programs (discussed in Note 23), we have recognized curtailments in the U.S. and Canadian OPEB plans.   
    
  In 2011, we recognized a settlement loss of   $109 million   associated with the partial settlement of a Belgium pension plan.   
    
  In 2012, we changed our accounting policy for recognizing unamortized gains or losses upon the settlement of plan obligations.  We now recognize a proportionate amount of the unamortized gains and losses if the cost of all settlements during the year exceeds the interest component of net periodic cost for the affected plan.  Prior to 2012, we recognized a proportionate amount of the unamortized gains and losses if the cost of all settlements during the year exceeded both interest and service cost for the affected plan.  The Company believes this change in accounting principle is preferable as it results in the earlier recognition of unamortized gains and losses that previously had been deferred and recognized over time. 
    
  An incremental settlement loss of   $250 million   related to the U.S. salaried lump sum program has been recognized during 2012 as a result of this change with a corresponding balance sheet reduction in   Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)  .  This accounting change does not impact financial results in prior periods. 
    
  The financial impact of the curtailments and settlements is reflected in the tables above and the expense is recorded in   Automotive cost of sales   and   Selling, administrative, and other expenses  . 
    
  The following table summarizes the assumptions used to determine benefit obligation and expense: 

The amounts in   Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)   that are expected to be recognized as components of net expense/(income) during 2013 are as follows (in millions): 

Pension Plan Contributions 
    
  In   2012  , we contributed   $3.4 billion   to our worldwide funded pension plans (including   $2 billion   in discretionary contributions to our U.S. plans) and made   $400 million   of benefit payments to participants in unfunded plans.  During 2013, we expect to contribute about   $5 billion   from Automotive cash and cash equivalents to our worldwide funded plans (including discretionary contributions of about   $3.4 billion   largely to our U.S. plans), and to make   $400 million   of benefit payments to participants in unfunded plans, for a total of about   $5.4 billion  . 
    
  Based on current assumptions and regulations, we do not expect to have a legal requirement to fund our major U.S. pension plans in 2013. 
    
    FS-46 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 16.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS   (Continued) 
    
  Estimated Future Benefit Payments 
    
  The following table presents estimated future gross benefit payments (in millions): 

Pension Plan Asset Information 
    
  Investment Objective and Strategies  .  Our investment objectives for the U.S. plans are to minimize the volatility of the value of our U.S. pension assets relative to U.S. pension liabilities and to ensure assets are sufficient to pay plan benefits.  As disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, in 2011 we adopted a broad global pension de-risking strategy, including a revised U.S. investment strategy which increases the matching characteristics of our assets relative to our liabilities.  Our U.S. target asset allocations, which we expect to reach over the next several years as the plans achieve full funding, are   80%   fixed income and   20%   growth assets (primarily alternative investments, which include hedge funds, real estate, private equity, and public equity).  Our largest non-U.S. plans (Ford U.K. and Ford Canada) have similar investment objectives to the U.S. plans.  We expect to reach target asset allocations similar to the new U.S. target asset allocations over the next several years, subject to legal requirements in each country. 
    
  Investment strategies and policies for the U.S. plans and the largest non-U.S. plans reflect a balance of risk-reducing and return-seeking considerations.  The objective of minimizing the volatility of assets relative to liabilities is addressed primarily through asset - liability matching, asset diversification, and hedging.  The fixed income target asset allocation matches the bond-like and long-dated nature of the pension liabilities.  Assets are broadly diversified within asset classes to achieve risk-adjusted returns that in total lower asset volatility relative to the liabilities.  Our rebalancing policies ensure actual allocations are in line with target allocations as appropriate.  Strategies to address the goal of ensuring sufficient assets to pay benefits include target allocations to a broad array of asset classes, and strategies within asset classes that provide adequate returns, diversification, and liquidity. 
    
  All assets are externally managed and most assets are actively managed.  Managers are not permitted to invest outside of the asset class (e.g., fixed income, public equity, alternatives) or strategy for which they have been appointed.  We use investment guidelines and recurring audits as tools to ensure investment managers invest solely within the investment strategy they have been provided. 
    
  Derivatives are permitted for fixed income investment and public equity managers to use as efficient substitutes for traditional securities and to manage exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risks.  Interest rate and foreign currency derivative instruments are used for the purpose of hedging changes in the fair value of assets that result from interest rate changes and currency fluctuations.  Interest rate derivatives also are used to adjust portfolio duration.  Derivatives may not be used to leverage or to alter the economic exposure to an asset class outside the scope of the mandate an investment manager has been given.  Alternative investment managers are permitted to employ leverage (including through the use of derivatives or other tools) that may alter economic exposure. 
    
  Significant Concentrations of Risk.    Significant concentrations of risk in our plan assets relate to interest rate, equity, and operating risk.  In order to minimize asset volatility relative to the liabilities, a portion of plan assets is allocated to fixed income investments that are exposed to interest rate risk.  Rate increases generally will result in a decline in fixed income assets while reducing the present value of the liabilities.  Conversely, rate decreases will increase fixed income assets, partially offsetting the related increase in the liabilities. 
    FS-47 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 16.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS   (Continued) 
    
  In order to ensure assets are sufficient to pay benefits, a portion of plan assets is allocated to growth assets (equity investments and alternative investments) that are expected over time to earn higher returns with more volatility than fixed income investments which more closely match pension liabilities.  Within equities, risk is mitigated by constructing a portfolio that is broadly diversified by geography, market capitalization, manager mandate size, investment style and process.  Within alternative investments, risk is similarly mitigated by constructing a portfolio that is broadly diversified by asset class, investment strategy, manager, style and process. 
    
  Operating risks include the risks of inadequate diversification and weak controls.  To mitigate these risks, investments are diversified across and within asset classes in support of investment objectives.  Policies and practices to address operating risks include ongoing manager oversight (e.g., style adherence, team strength, firm health, and internal risk controls), plan and asset class investment guidelines and instructions that are communicated to managers, and periodic compliance and audit reviews to ensure adherence. 
    
  At year-end 2012, within the total fair value of our assets in major worldwide plans, we held less than   2%   of fixed income investments in the obligations of Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, and Spain.  Also at year-end 2012, we held less than   2%   in Ford securities. 
    
  Expected Long-Term Rate of Return on Assets.    The long-term return assumption at year-end 2012 is   7.38%   for the U.S. plans,   7.25%   for the U.K. plans, and   6.75%   for the Canadian plans, and averages   6.74%   for all non-U.S. plans.  A generally consistent approach is used worldwide to develop this assumption.  This approach considers various sources, primarily inputs from a range of advisors for long-term capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy by plan.  Historical returns also are considered where appropriate. 
    
  At   December 31, 2012  , our actual   10  -year annual rate of return on pension plan assets was   11.1%   for the U.S. plans,   8.7%   for the U.K. plans, and   6.4%   for the Canadian plans.  At December 31, 2011, our actual   10  -year annual rate of return on pension plan assets was   8.6%   for the U.S. plans,   6.0%   for the U.K. plans, and   4.6%   for the Canadian plans. 
    
  Fair Value of Plan Assets.    Pension assets are recorded at fair value, and include primarily fixed income and equity securities, derivatives, and alternative investments, which include hedge funds, private equity, and real estate.  Fixed income and equity securities may each be combined into commingled fund investments.  Commingled funds are valued to reflect the pension fund's interest in the fund based on the reported year-end net asset value ("NAV").  Alternative investments are valued based on year-end reported NAV, with adjustments as appropriate for lagged reporting of   1   month -   6   months. 
    
  Fixed Income - Government and Agency Debt Securities and Corporate Debt Securities.    U.S. government and government agency obligations, non-U.S. government and government agency obligations, municipal securities, supranational obligations, corporate bonds, bank notes, floating rate notes, and preferred securities are valued based on quotes received from independent pricing services or from dealers who make markets in such securities.  Pricing services utilize matrix pricing, which considers readily available inputs such as the yield or price of bonds of comparable quality, coupon, maturity, and type, as well as dealer-supplied prices, and generally are categorized as Level 2 inputs in the fair value hierarchy.  Securities categorized as Level 3 typically are priced by dealers and pricing services that use proprietary pricing models which incorporate unobservable inputs.  These inputs primarily consist of yield and credit spread assumptions. 
    
  Fixed Income - Agency and Non-Agency Mortgage and Other Asset-Backed Securities.    U.S. and non-U.S. government agency mortgage and asset-backed securities, non-agency collateralized mortgage obligations, commercial mortgage securities, residential mortgage securities, and other asset-backed securities are valued based on quotes received from independent pricing services or from dealers who make markets in such securities.  Pricing services utilize matrix pricing, which considers prepayment speed assumptions, attributes of the collateral, yield or price of bonds of comparable quality, coupon, maturity and type, as well as dealer-supplied prices, and generally are categorized as Level 2 inputs in the fair value hierarchy.  Securities categorized as Level 3 typically are priced by dealers and pricing services that use proprietary pricing models which incorporate unobservable inputs.  These inputs primarily consist of prepayment curves, discount rates, default assumptions, and recovery rates. 
    FS-48 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 16.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS   (Continued) 
    
  Equities.    Equity securities are valued based on quoted prices and are primarily exchange-traded.  Securities for which official close or last trade pricing on an active exchange is available are classified as Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy.  If closing prices are not available, securities are valued at the last quoted bid price or may be valued using the last available price and typically are categorized as Level 2.  Level 3 securities often are thinly traded or delisted, with unobservable pricing data. 
    
  Derivatives.    Exchange-traded derivatives for which market quotations are readily available are valued at the last reported sale price or official closing price as reported by an independent pricing service on the primary market or exchange on which they are traded and are categorized as Level 1.  Over-the-counter derivatives typically are valued by independent pricing services and categorized as Level 2.  Level 3 derivatives typically are priced by dealers and pricing services that use proprietary pricing models which incorporate unobservable inputs, including extrapolated or model-derived assumptions such as volatilities and yield and credit spread assumptions. 
    
  Alternative Assets.    Hedge funds generally hold liquid and readily priced securities, such as public equities in long/short funds, exchange-traded derivatives in macro/commodity trading advisor funds, and corporate bonds in credit relative value funds.  Since hedge funds do not have readily available market quotations, they are valued using the NAV provided by the investment sponsor or third party administrator.  Hedge fund assets typically are categorized as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy due to the inherent restrictions on redemptions that may affect our ability to sell the investment at its NAV in the near term.  Valuations may be lagged   1   month -   3   months.  For 2012 and 2011, we made adjustments of   $33 million  , and   $(10) million  , respectively, to adjust for hedge fund lagged valuations. 
    
  Private equity and real estate investments are less liquid.  External investment managers typically report valuations reflecting initial cost or updated appraisals, which are adjusted for cash flows, and realized and unrealized gains/losses.  Private equity and real estate funds do not have readily available market quotations, and therefore are valued using the NAV provided by the investment sponsor or third party administrator.  These assets typically are categorized as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, due to the inherent restrictions on redemptions that may affect our ability to sell the investment at its NAV in the near term.  Valuations may be lagged   1   month -   6   months.  The NAV will be adjusted for cash flows (additional investments or contributions, and distributions) through year-end.  We may make further adjustments for any known substantive valuation changes not reflected in the NAV.  For 2012 and 2011, we made adjustments of   $56 million   and   $6 million  , respectively, to adjust for private equity lagged valuations.  For 2012 and 2011, we made adjustments of   $24 million   and   $13 million  , respectively, to adjust for real estate lagged valuations. 
    
  The Ford Germany defined benefit plan is funded through a group insurance contract and exists in a pooled structure with other policy holders.  The contract value represents the value of the underlying assets held by the insurance company (primarily bonds) at the guaranteed rate of return.  The adjustment to fair value to recognize contractual returns is a significant unobservable input; therefore the contract is Level 3. 
    
    FS-49 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 16.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS   (Continued) 
    
  The fair value of our pension benefits plan assets (including dividends and interest receivables of   $274 million   and   $84 million   for U.S. and non-U.S. plans, respectively) by asset category was as follows (in millions): 

_______ 
           (a) 
    Net derivative position.   
              (b) 
    Debt securities primarily issued by U.S. government-sponsored enterprises ("GSEs"). 
              (c) 
    "Investment grade" bonds are those rated Baa3/BBB or higher by at least two rating agencies; "High yield" bonds are those rated below investment grade; "Other credit" refers to non-rated bonds. 
              (d) 
    Funds investing in diverse hedge fund strategies with the following composition of underlying hedge fund investments within the U.S. pension plans at   December 31, 2012  :  global macro (  39%  ), event-driven (  21%  ), equity long/short (  17%  ), relative value (  13%  ), and multi-strategy (  10%  ). 
              (e) 
    Diversified investments in private equity funds with the following strategies:  buyout (  60%  ), venture capital (  25%  ), mezzanine/distressed (  8%  ), and other (  7%  ).  Allocations are estimated based on latest available data for managers reflecting June 30, 2012 holdings. 
              (f) 
    Investment in private property funds broadly classified as core (  54%  ), value-added and opportunistic (  46%  ). 
              (g) 
    Primarily short-term investment funds to provide liquidity to plan investment managers and cash held to pay benefits. 
              (h) 
    Primarily cash related to net pending security (purchases)/sales and net pending foreign currency purchases/(sales). 
       FS-50 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 16.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS   (Continued) 

_______ 
           (a) 
    Net derivative position.   
              (b) 
    Debt securities primarily issued by GSEs. 
              (c) 
    "Investment grade" bonds are those rated Baa3/BBB or higher by at least two rating agencies; "High yield" bonds are those rated below investment grade; "Other credit" refers to non-rated bonds. 
              (d) 
    Funds investing in diversified portfolio of underlying hedge funds.  At   December 31, 2012  , the composition of underlying hedge fund investments (within the U.K. and Canada pension plans) was:  event-driven (  36%  ), equity long/short (  26%  ), multi-strategy (  14%  ), global macro (  13%  ) and relative value (  11%  ). 
              (e) 
    Investments in private investment funds (funds of funds) pursuing strategies broadly classified as venture capital and buyouts. 
              (f) 
    Investment in private property funds broadly classified as core (  31%  ), value-added and opportunistic (  69%  ).  Also includes investment in real assets. 
              (g) 
    Primarily short-term investment funds to provide liquidity to plan investment managers. 
              (h) 
    Primarily Ford-Werke GmbH ("Ford-Werke") plan assets (insurance contract valued at   $3,609 million  ) and cash related to net pending security (purchases)/sales and net pending foreign currency purchases/(sales). 
       
    FS-51 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 16.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS   (Continued) 
    
  The fair value of our pension benefits plan assets (including dividends and interest receivables of   $291 million   and   $78 million   for U.S. and non-U.S. plans, respectively) by asset category was as follows (in millions): 

_______ 
           (a) 
    Net derivative position.   
              (b) 
    Debt securities primarily issued by GSEs. 
              (c) 
    "Investment grade" bonds are those rated Baa3/BBB or higher by at least two rating agencies; "High yield" bonds are those rated below investment grade; "Other credit" refers to non-rated bonds. 
              (d) 
    Funds investing in diverse hedge fund strategies (primarily commingled fund of funds) with the following composition of underlying hedge fund investments within the U.S. pension plans at   December 31, 2011  :  global macro (  42%  ), equity long/short (  21%  ), event-driven (  18%  ), relative value (  11%  ), and multi-strategy (  8%  ). 
              (e) 
    Diversified investments in private equity funds with the following strategies:  buyout (  61%  ), venture capital (  25%  ), mezzanine/distressed (  8%  ), and other (  6%  ).  Allocations are estimated based on latest available data for managers reflecting June 30, 2011 holdings. 
              (f) 
    Investment in private property funds broadly classified as core (  64%  ), value-added and opportunistic (  36%  ). 
              (g) 
    Primarily short-term investment funds to provide liquidity to plan investment managers and cash held to pay benefits. 
              (h) 
    Primarily cash related to net pending trade purchases/sales and net pending foreign exchange purchases/sales. 
       FS-52 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 16.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS   (Continued) 

_______ 
           (a) 
    Net derivative position.  
              (b) 
    Debt securities primarily issued by GSEs. 
              (c) 
    "Investment grade" bonds are those rated Baa3/BBB or higher by at least two rating agencies; "High yield" bonds are those rated below investment grade; "Other credit" refers to non-rated bonds. 
              (d) 
    Funds investing in diversified portfolio of underlying hedge funds (commingled fund of funds).  At   December 31, 2011  , the composition of underlying hedge fund investments (within the U.K. and Canada pension plans) was:  event-driven (  30%  ), equity long/short (  27%  ), global macro (  14%  ), multi-strategy (  14%  ), relative value (  11%  ), and cash (  4%  ). 
              (e) 
    Investments in private investment funds (funds of funds) pursuing strategies broadly classified as venture capital and buyouts. 
              (f) 
    Investment in private property funds broadly classified as core (  13%  ), value-added and opportunistic (  87%  ).  Also includes investment in real assets. 
              (g) 
    Primarily short-term investment funds to provide liquidity to plan investment managers. 
              (h) 
    Primarily Ford-Werke plan assets (insurance contract valued at   $3,406 million  ) and cash related to net pending trade purchases/sales and net pending foreign exchange purchases/sales. 
       
    FS-53 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 16.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS   (Continued) 
    
  The following table summarizes the changes in Level 3 pension benefits plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis for the year ended   December 31, 2012   (in millions): 

FS-54 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 16.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS   (Continued) 

_______ 
           (a) 
    Primarily Ford-Werke plan assets (insurance contract valued at   $3,609 million  ). 
       
    FS-55 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 16.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS   (Continued) 
    
  The following table summarizes the changes in Level 3 pension benefits plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis for the year ended   December 31, 2011   (in millions): 

FS-56 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 16.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS   (Continued) 

_______ 
           (a) 
    Primarily Ford-Werke plan assets (insurance contract valued at   $3,406 million  ). 
       
    NOTE 17.  DEBT AND COMMITMENTS 
    
  Our debt consists of short-term and long-term unsecured debt securities, convertible debt securities, and unsecured and secured borrowings from banks and other lenders.  Debt issuances are placed directly by us or through securities dealers or underwriters and are held by institutional and retail investors.  In addition, Ford Credit sponsors securitization programs that provide short-term and long-term asset-backed financing through institutional investors in the U.S. and international capital markets. 
    
  Debt is recorded on our balance sheet at par value adjusted for unamortized discount or premium and adjustments related to designated fair value hedges (see Note 18 for policy detail).  Discounts, premiums, and costs directly related to the issuance of debt generally are capitalized and amortized over the life of the debt or to the put date and are recorded in   Interest expense   using the effective interest method.  Gains and losses on the extinguishment of debt are recorded in   Automotive interest income and other income/(expense), net   and   Financial Services other income/(loss), net  . 
    
    FS-57 

    FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 17.  DEBT AND COMMITMENTS   (Continued) 
    
  The carrying value of our debt was as follows (in millions): 

__________ 
            (b) 
    Average contractual rates reflect the stated contractual interest rate with the exception of commercial paper, which is issued at a discount. 
              (c) 
    Average effective rates reflect the average contractual interest rate plus amortization of discounts, premiums, and issuance fees. 
              (d) 
    The fair value of debt includes   $484 million   and   $326 million   of Automotive sector short-term debt and   $8.4 billion   and   $7 billion   of Financial Services sector short-term debt at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , respectively, carried at cost which approximates fair value.  All debt is categorized within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.  See Note 4 for additional information. 
              (e) 
    Adjustments related to designated fair value hedges of unsecured debt. 
              (f) 
    Debt related to Ford's acquisition of Ford Credit debt securities. 
       FS-58 

    FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 17.  DEBT AND COMMITMENTS   (Continued) 
    
  The fair value of debt presented above reflects interest accrued but not yet paid.  Interest accrued on Automotive debt is reported in   Automotive accrued liabilities and deferred revenue   and was   $194 million   and   $205 million   at     December 31, 2012   and 2011, respectively.  Interest accrued on Financial Services debt is reported in   Financial Services other liabilities and deferred income   and was   $744 million   and   $836 million   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , respectively.  See Note 4 for fair value methodology. 
    
  Maturities  
    
  Debt maturities at   December 31, 2012   were as follows (in millions): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Based on contractual payment date of related debt. 
              (b) 
    Primarily non-U.S. affiliate debt and includes the EIB secured loan. 
              (c) 
    Adjustments related to designated fair value hedges of unsecured debt. 
       
    FS-59 

    FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 17.  DEBT AND COMMITMENTS   (Continued) 
    
  Automotive Sector 
    
  Public Unsecured Debt Securities 
    
  Our public unsecured debt securities outstanding were as follows (in millions): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Unregistered industrial revenue bonds. 
              (b) 
    Listed on the Luxembourg Exchange and on the Singapore Exchange. 
              (c) 
    Listed on the New York Stock Exchange; this debt was redeemed as of February 4, 2013. 
              (d) 
    Excludes   9.215%   Debentures due September 15, 2021   with an outstanding balance at   December 31, 2012   of   $180 million  .  The proceeds from these securities were on-lent by Ford to Ford Holdings to fund Financial Services activity and are reported as   Financial Services debt  . 
       
  Convertible Notes 
    
  At   December 31, 2012  , we had outstanding   $883 million   and   $25 million   principal of   4.25%   Senior Convertible Notes due November 15, 2016 ("2016 Convertible Notes") and December 15, 2036 ("2036 Convertible Notes"), respectively.  Subject to certain limitations relating to the price of Ford Common Stock, the 2016 Convertible Notes are convertible into shares of Ford Common Stock, based on a conversion rate (subject to adjustment) of   109.8554   shares per   $1,000   principal amount of 2016 Convertible Notes (which is equal to a conversion price of   $9.10   per share, representing a   22%   conversion premium based on the closing price of   $7.44   per share on November 3, 2009).  The 2036 Convertible Notes are convertible into shares of Ford Common Stock, based on a conversion rate (subject to adjustment) of   111.0495   shares per   $1,000   principal amount of 2036 Convertible Notes (which is equal to a conversion price of   $9.01   per share, representing a   22%   conversion premium based on the closing price of   $7.36   per share on December 6, 2006).  
    
  Upon conversion, we have the right to deliver, in lieu of shares of Ford Common Stock, either cash or a combination of cash and Ford Common Stock.  Holders may require us to purchase all or a portion of the Convertible Notes upon a change in control of the Company, or for shares of Ford Common Stock upon a designated event that is not a change in control, in each case for a price equal to   100%   of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes being repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the date of repurchase.  Additionally, holders of the 2036 Convertible Notes may require us to purchase all or a portion for cash on December 20, 2016 and December 15, 2026.  
    FS-60 

    FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 17.  DEBT AND COMMITMENTS   (Continued) 
    
  We may terminate the conversion rights related to the 2016 Convertible Notes at any time on or after November 20, 2014 if the closing price of Ford Common Stock exceeds   130%   of the then-applicable conversion price for   20   trading days during any consecutive   30  -trading-day period.  Also, we may redeem for cash all or a portion of the 2036 Convertible Notes at our option at any time or from time to time on or after December 20, 2016 at a price equal to   100%   of the principal amount of the 2036 Convertible Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the redemption date.  We may terminate the conversion rights related to the 2036 Convertible Notes at any time on or after December 20, 2013 if the closing price of Ford Common Stock exceeds   140%   of the then-applicable conversion price for   20   trading days during any consecutive   30  -trading-day period. 
     
  Liability, equity, and if-converted components of our Convertible Notes are summarized as follows (in millions): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Recorded in   Capital in excess of par value of stock. 
        
  We recognized interest cost on our Convertible Notes as follows (in millions): 

2010 Conversion Offer.    In the fourth quarter of 2010, pursuant to an exchange offer we conducted, about   $2 billion   and   $554 million   principal amount of the 2016 Convertible Notes and 2036 Convertible Notes, respectively, were exchanged for an aggregate of   274,385,596   shares of Ford Common Stock,   $534 million   in cash (  $215   in cash per   $1,000   principal amount and   $190   in cash per   $1,000   principal amount of 2016 Convertible Notes and 2036 Convertible Notes exchanged, respectively) and the applicable accrued and unpaid interest on such 2016 Convertible Notes and 2036 Convertible Notes.  As a result of the conversion, we recorded a pre-tax loss of   $962 million  , net of unamortized discounts, premiums, and fees, in   Automotive interest income and other income/(expense), net. 
  DOE ATVM Incentive Program 
    
  In September 2009, we entered into a Loan Arrangement and Reimbursement Agreement ("Arrangement Agreement") with the DOE, pursuant to which the DOE agreed to (i) arrange a   13  -year multi-draw term loan facility (the "Facility") under the ATVM Program in the aggregate principal amount of up to   $5.9 billion  , (ii) designate us as a borrower under the ATVM Program and (iii) cause the Federal Financing Bank ("FFB") to enter into the Note Purchase Agreement for the purchase of notes to be issued by us evidencing such loans.  In August 2012, the Facility was fully drawn with   $5.9 billion   outstanding after we had drawn the remaining   $137 million   of available funds.  We began repayment in September 2012, and at December 31, 2012 an aggregate of   $5.6 billion   was outstanding.  The proceeds of the ATVM loan have been used to finance certain costs for fuel efficient, advanced technology vehicles.  The principal amount of the ATVM loan bears interest at a blended rate based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve at the time each draw was made (with the weighted-average interest rate on all such draws being about   2.3%   per annum).  
    
  The ATVM loan is repayable in equal quarterly installments of   $148 million  , which began in September 2012 and will end in June 2022. 
    
    FS-61 

    FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 17.  DEBT AND COMMITMENTS   (Continued) 
    
  EIB Credit Facility 
    
  On July 12, 2010, Ford Motor Company Limited, our operating subsidiary in the United Kingdom ("Ford of Britain"), entered into a credit facility for an aggregate amount of    450 million   (equivalent to   $729 million   at December 31, 2012) with the EIB.  Proceeds of loans drawn under the facility are being used to fund costs for the research and development of fuel-efficient engines and commercial vehicles with lower emissions, and related upgrades to an engine manufacturing plant.  The facility was fully drawn in the third quarter of 2010, and Ford of Britain had outstanding   $729 million   of loans at   December 31, 2012  .  The loans are   five  -year, non-amortizing loans secured by a guarantee from the U.K. government for   80%   of the outstanding principal amount and cash collateral from Ford of Britain equal to approximately   20%   of the outstanding principal amount, and bear interest at a fixed rate of   3.9%   per annum excluding a commitment fee of   0.30%   to the U.K. government.  Ford of Britain has pledged substantially all of its fixed assets, receivables and inventory to the U.K. government as collateral, and we have guaranteed Ford of Britain's obligations to the U.K. government related to the government's guarantee. 
    
  Automotive Credit Facilities 
    
  Lenders under our Credit Agreement dated December 15, 2006, as amended and restated on November 24, 2009 and as further amended (the "Credit Agreement"), have commitments totaling   $9.3 billion  , in a revolving facility that will mature on November 30, 2015, and commitments totaling an additional   $307 million   in a revolving facility that will mature on November 30, 2013.  Our Credit Agreement is free of material adverse change clauses, restrictive financial covenants (for example, debt-to-equity limitations and minimum net worth requirements) and credit rating triggers that could limit our ability to obtain funding.  The Credit Agreement contains a liquidity covenant that requires us to maintain a minimum of   $4 billion   in the aggregate of domestic cash, cash equivalents, loaned and marketable securities and/or availability under the revolving credit facilities. On May 22, 2012, the collateral securing our Credit Agreement was automatically released upon our senior, unsecured, long-term debt being upgraded to investment grade by Fitch and Moody's. If our senior, unsecured, long-term debt does not maintain at least two investment grade ratings, the guarantees of certain subsidiaries will be reinstated. 
    
  At   December 31, 2012  , the utilized portion of the revolving credit facilities was   $93 million  , representing amounts utilized as letters of credit.  Less than   1%   of the commitments in the revolving credit facilities are from financial institutions that are based in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, and Spain. 
    
  At December 31, 2012, we had   $901 million   of local credit facilities to foreign Automotive affiliates, of which   $140 million   has been utilized.  Of the   $901 million   of committed credit facilities,   $345 million   expires in 2013,   $196 million   expires in 2014,   $318 million   expires in 2015, and   $42 million   thereafter. 
    
  Financial Services Sector 
    
  Debt Repurchases and Calls  
    
  From time to time and based on market conditions, we may repurchase or call some of our outstanding unsecured and asset-backed debt.  If we have excess liquidity, and it is an economically favorable use of our available cash, we may repurchase or call debt at a price lower or higher than its carrying value, resulting in a gain or loss on extinguishment.  
    
  2012 Debt Repurchases.    Through market transactions, we repurchased and called an aggregate principal amount of   $628 million   (including   $43 million   maturing in 2012) of our unsecured and asset backed debt.  As a result, we recorded a pre-tax loss of   $14 million  , net of unamortized premiums, discounts and fees in   Financial Services     other income/(loss), net   in 2012  .   
    
  2011 Debt Repurchases.    Through market transactions, we repurchased and called an aggregate principal amount of   $2.3 billion   (including   $268 million   maturing in 2011) of our unsecured debt.  As a result, we recorded a pre-tax loss of   $68 million  , net of unamortized premiums, discounts and fees in   Financial Services other income/(loss), net   in 2011  .    There were no repurchase or call transactions for asset-backed debt during 2011. 
    
  2010 Debt Repurchases.    Through market transactions, we repurchased and called an aggregate principal amount of   $5.6 billion   (including   $683 million   maturing in 2010) of its unsecured debt and asset-backed debt.  As a result, we recorded a pre-tax loss of   $139 million  , net of unamortized premiums and discounts, in   Financial Services other income/(loss), net   in 2010. 
    FS-62 

    FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 17.  DEBT AND COMMITMENTS   (Continued) 
    
  Asset-Backed Debt 
    
  Ford Credit engages in securitization transactions to fund operations and to maintain liquidity.  Ford Credit's securitization transactions are recorded as asset-backed debt and the associated assets are not de-recognized and continue to be included in our financial statements. 
    
  The finance receivables and cash flows related to the net investment in operating leases that have been included in securitization transactions are only available for payment of the debt and other obligations issued or arising in the securitization transactions.  They are not available to pay Ford Credit's other obligations or the claims of its other creditors.  Ford Credit does, however, hold the right to the excess cash flows not needed to pay the debt and other obligations issued or arising in each of the securitization transactions.  The debt is the obligation of our consolidated securitization entities and not Ford Credit's legal obligation or that of its other subsidiaries. 
    
  The following table shows the assets and liabilities related to our asset-backed debt arrangements that are included in our financial statements for the years ended December 31 (in billions): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Includes assets to be used to settle liabilities of the consolidated VIEs.  See Note 12 for additional information on Financial Services sector VIEs. 
              (b) 
    Certain debt issued by the VIEs to affiliated companies served as collateral for accessing the ECB open market operations program.  This external funding of   $145 million   and   $246 million   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , respectively was not reflected as a liability of the VIEs and is reflected as a non-VIE liability above.  The finance receivables backing this external funding are reflected in VIE finance receivables. 
       
  Financial Services sector asset-backed debt also included   $64 million   and   $75 million   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , respectively, that is secured by property. 

FS-63 

    FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 17.  DEBT AND COMMITMENTS   (Continued) 
    
  Credit Facilities 
    
  At December 31, 2012, Ford Credit and its majority-owned subsidiaries had   $922 million   of contractually committed unsecured credit facilities with financial institutions, including FCE Bank plc's ("FCE")    440 million   (equivalent to   $713 million   at December 31, 2012) syndicated credit facility (the "FCE Credit Agreement") which matures in 2014.  At   December 31, 2012  ,   $866 million   were available for use.  In January 2013, FCE drew    330 million   (equivalent to about   $535 million  ) of its syndicated facility.  The FCE Credit Agreement contains certain covenants, including an obligation for FCE to maintain its ratio of regulatory capital to risk weighted assets at no less than the applicable regulatory minimum, and for the support agreement between FCE and Ford Credit to remain in full force and effect (and enforced by FCE to ensure that its net worth is maintained at no less than   $500 million  ).  In addition to customary payment, representation, bankruptcy, and judgment defaults, the FCE Credit Agreement contains cross-payment and cross-acceleration defaults with respect to other debt.   
    
  In addition, at   December 31, 2012  , Ford Credit had   $6.3 billion   of contractually-committed liquidity facilities provided by banks to support its FCAR program of which   $3.3 billion   expire in 2013 and   $3 billion   expire in 2014.  Utilization of these facilities is subject to conditions specific to the FCAR program and Ford Credit having a sufficient amount of eligible retail assets for securitization.  The FCAR program must be supported by liquidity facilities equal to at least   100%   of its outstanding balance.  At   December 31, 2012  , about   $6.3 billion   of FCAR's bank liquidity facilities were available to support FCAR s asset-backed commercial paper, subordinated debt or FCAR's purchase of Ford Credit asset-backed securities.  At   December 31, 2012  , the outstanding commercial paper balance for the FCAR program was   $5.8 billion  . 
    
  Committed Liquidity Programs 
    
  Ford Credit and its subsidiaries, including FCE, have entered into agreements with a number of bank-sponsored asset-backed commercial paper conduits and other financial institutions. Such counterparties are contractually committed, at Ford Credit's option, to purchase from Ford Credit eligible retail or wholesale assets or to purchase or make advances under asset-backed securities backed by retail, lease, or wholesale assets for proceeds of up to   $24.3 billion   (  $12.9 billion   retail,   $7 billion   wholesale, and   $4.4 billion   lease assets) at December 31, 2012, of which about   $4.9 billion   are commitments to FCE.  These committed liquidity programs have varying maturity dates, with   $23.4 billion   (of which about   $4.2 billion   relates to FCE commitments) having maturities within the next twelve months and the remaining balance having maturities between April 2014 and October 2014.  Ford Credit plans to achieve capacity renewals to protect its global funding needs, optimize capacity utilization and maintain sufficient liquidity.   
    
  Ford Credit's ability to obtain funding under these programs is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs as well as its ability to obtain interest rate hedging arrangements for certain securitization transactions.  Ford Credit's capacity in excess of eligible receivables would protect it against the risk of lower than planned renewal rates.  At   December 31, 2012  ,   $12.3 billion   of these commitments were in use.  These programs are free of material adverse change clauses, restrictive financial covenants (for example, debt-to-equity limitations and minimum net worth requirements), and generally, credit rating triggers that could limit Ford Credit's ability to obtain funding.  However, the unused portion of these commitments may be terminated if the performance of the underlying assets deteriorates beyond specified levels.  Based on Ford Credit's experience and knowledge as servicer of the related assets, it does not expect any of these programs to be terminated due to such events. 
    
    FS-64 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 18.  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES 
    
  In the normal course of business, our operations are exposed to global market risks, including the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, certain commodity prices, and interest rates.  To manage these risks, we enter into various derivatives contracts: 

Foreign currency exchange contracts, including forwards and options, that are used to manage foreign exchange exposure;   
                
    Commodity contracts, including forwards and options, that are used to manage commodity price risk;   
                
    Interest rate contracts including swaps, caps, and floors that are used to manage the effects of interest rate fluctuations; and   
                
    Cross-currency interest rate swap contracts that are used to manage foreign currency and interest rate exposures on foreign-denominated debt.   
       
  Our derivatives are over-the-counter customized derivative transactions and are not exchange-traded.  We review our hedging program, derivative positions, and overall risk management strategy on a regular basis.  
    
  Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedge Accounting.    All derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at fair value.  We do not net our derivative position by counterparty for purposes of balance sheet presentation and disclosure.  We do, however, consider our net position for determining fair value. 
    
  We have elected to apply hedge accounting to certain derivatives.  Derivatives that are designated in hedging relationships are evaluated for effectiveness using regression analysis at the time they are designated and throughout the hedge period.   
    
  Some derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting; for others, we elect not to apply hedge accounting.  Regardless, we only enter into transactions that we believe will be highly effective at offsetting the underlying economic risk.   
    
  Cash Flow Hedges.    Our Automotive sector has designated certain forward contracts as cash flow hedges of forecasted transactions with exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. 
    
  The effective portion of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges is deferred in   Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)   and is recognized in   Automotive cost of sales   when the hedged item affects earnings.  The ineffective portion is reported in   Automotive cost of sales   in the period of measurement.  Our policy is to de-designate cash flow hedges prior to the time forecasted transactions are recognized as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and report subsequent changes in fair value through   Automotive cost of sales  .  If it becomes probable that the originally-forecasted transaction will not occur, the related amount included in   Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)   is reclassified and recognized in earnings.  The majority of our cash flow hedges mature in   2   years or less. 
    
  Fair Value Hedg  es.    Our Financial Services sector     uses derivatives to   reduce the risk of changes in the fair value of debt.  We have designated certain receive-fixed, pay-float interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of fixed-rate debt.  The risk being hedged is the risk of changes in the fair value of the hedged debt attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate.  If the hedge relationship is deemed to be highly effective, we record the changes in the fair value of the hedged debt related to the risk being hedged in   Financial Services debt   with the offset in   Financial Services other income/(loss), net  .      The change in fair value of the related derivative (excluding accrued interest) also is recorded in   Financial Services other income/(loss), net.    Net interest settlements and accruals on fair value hedges are excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.  We report net interest settlements and accruals on fair value hedges in   Interest expense.    The cash flows associated with fair value hedges are reported in   Net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities   on our statement of cash flows.  
    
  When a fair value hedge is de-designated, or when the derivative is terminated before maturity, the fair value adjustment to the hedged debt continues to be reported as part of the carrying value of the debt and is amortized over its remaining life. 
    
  Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments.    Our Automotive sector reports changes in the fair value of derivatives not designated as hedging instruments through   Automotive cost of sales  .  Cash flows associated with non-designated or de-designated derivatives are reported in   Net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities   in our statements of cash flows. 
    FS-65 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 18.  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES   (Continued) 
    
  Our Financial Services sector reports net interest settlements and accruals and changes in the fair value of interest rate swaps not designated as hedging instruments in   Financial Services other income/(loss) net  .  Foreign currency revaluation on accrued interest along with gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts and cross currency interest rate swaps are reported in   Financial Services Operating and other expenses  .  Cash flows associated with non-designated or de-designated derivatives are reported in   Net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities   in our statements of cash flows  . 
    
  Net Investment Hedges.    We have used foreign currency exchange derivatives to hedge the net assets of certain foreign entities to offset the translation and economic exposures related to our investment in these entities.  The effective portion of changes in the value of designated instruments (i.e., the spot-to-spot) is included in   Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)   as a foreign currency translation adjustment until the hedged investment is sold or liquidated.  When the investment is sold or liquidated, the hedge gains and losses previously reported in   Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)   are recognized in   Automotive interest income and other income/(loss), net   as part of the gain or loss on sale.      Presently, we have had no derivative instruments in an active net investment hedging relationship.   
    
  Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Classification.    We have elected to apply the normal purchases and normal sales classification for physical supply contracts that are entered into for the purpose of procuring commodities to be used in production over a reasonable period in the normal course of our business. 

FS-66 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 18.  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES   (Continued) 
    
  Income Effect of Derivative Financial Instruments  
    
  The following table summarizes by hedge designation the pre-tax gains/(losses) recorded in Other comprehensive income/(loss) ("OCI"), reclassified from   Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)   ("AOCI") to income and/or recognized directly in income for the years ended   December 31   (in millions): 

__________ 
            (b) 
    Reflects gains/(losses) for derivative features included in the FUEL Notes (see Note 4). 

FS-67 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 18.  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES   (Continued) 
    
  Balance Sheet Effect of Derivative Financial Instruments  
    
  The following table summarizes the notional amount and estimated fair value of our derivative financial instruments (in millions): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Represents derivative features included in the FUEL Notes (see Note 4).  The derivative features included in the FUEL Notes were extinguished as a result of the mandatory exchange of the FUEL Notes to unsecured notes in the second quarter of 2012. 
       
  The notional amounts of the derivative financial instruments do not represent amounts exchanged by the parties and, therefore, are not a direct measure of our exposure to the financial risks described above.  Notional amounts are presented on a gross basis with no netting of offsetting exposure positions.  The amounts exchanged are calculated by reference to the notional amounts and by other terms of the derivatives, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, or commodity volumes and prices. 
    
  On our consolidated balance sheet, derivative assets are reported in   Other assets   for     Automotive and Financial Services sectors, and derivative liabilities are reported in   Payables   for our Automotive sector and in   Accrued liabilities and deferred revenue   for our Financial Services sector. 

FS-68 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 18.  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES   (Continued) 
    
  Counterparty Risk and Collateral  
    
  The use of derivatives exposes us to the risk that a counterparty may default on a derivative contract.  We establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize this risk and provide counterparty diversification.  Substantially all of our derivative exposures are with counterparties that have an investment grade rating.  The aggregate fair value of our derivative instruments in asset positions on   December 31, 2012   was   $1.5 billion  , representing the maximum loss that we would recognize at that date if all counterparties failed to perform as contracted.  We enter into master agreements with counterparties that generally allow for netting of certain exposures; therefore, the actual loss we would recognize if all counterparties failed to perform as contracted would be lower. 
    
  We include an adjustment for non-performance risk in the measurement of fair value of derivative instruments.  Our adjustment for non-performance risk is relative to a measure based on an unadjusted inter-bank deposit rate (e.g., LIBOR).  For our Automotive sector, at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , our adjustment decreased derivative assets by   $1 million   and   $3 million  , respectively, and decreased derivative liabilities by   $1 million   and   $10 million  , respectively.  For our Financial Services sector, at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , our adjustment decreased derivative assets by   $14 million   and   $54 million  , respectively, and decreased derivative liabilities by   $5 million   and   $7 million  , respectively.  See Note 4 for more detail on valuation methodologies. 
    
  We post cash collateral with certain counterparties based on our net position with regard to foreign currency and co  mmodity derivative contracts.  As of   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , we posted   $0   and   $70 million  , respectively, in   Other assets   f  or posted collateral. 
    
    NOTE 19.  REDEEMABLE NONCONTROLLING INTEREST 
    
  On September 1, 2012, with respect to the business combination of AAI, we recognized a redeemable noncontrolling interest related to Mazda Motor Corporation's ("Mazda's")   50%   equity interest in AAI.  Mazda's share in AAI is redeemable by Ford or Mazda for a   three  -year period commencing on September 1, 2015 (see Note 25).  The following table summarizes the changes in our redeemable noncontrolling interest for the period ended December 31 (in millions):  

FS-69 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 20.  ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME/(LOSS) 
    
  The following table summarizes the changes in the accumulated balances for each component of AOCI attributable to Ford Motor Company for the years ended   December 31   (in millions): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    The accumulated translation adjustments related to an investment in a foreign subsidiary are reclassified to net income upon sale or upon complete or substantially complete liquidation of the entity and are recognized in   Automotive interest income and other income/(loss), net   or   Financial Services other income/(loss), net.    The adjustment for 2010 primarily relates to the sale of Volvo. 
               (c) 
    Gain/(loss) on cash flow hedges is reclassified from AOCI to income when the hedged item affects earnings and is recognized in   Automotive cost of sales. 
              (d) 
    These AOCI components are included in the computation of net periodic pension cost.  See Note 16 for additional details. 
              (e) 
    We expect to reclassify existing net losses of   $265 million   from   Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)   to   Automotive cost of sales   during the next twelve months as the underlying exposures are realized. 
       
    FS-70 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 21.  OTHER INCOME/(LOSS) 
    
  Automotive Sector 
    
  The following table summarizes amounts included in   Automotive interest income and other income/(loss), net   for the years ended   December 31   (in millions): 

Financial Services Sector 
    
  The following table summarizes the amounts included in   Financial Services other income/(loss), net   for the years ended   December 31   (in millions): 

NOTE 22.  SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION 
    
  At   December 31, 2012  , a variety of share-based compensation grants and awards were outstanding for employees (including officers).  All share-based compensation plans are approved by the shareholders. 
    
  We have share-based compensation outstanding under two Long-Term Incentive Plans ("LTIP"):      the 1998     LTIP and the 2008     LTIP.  No further grants may be made under the 1998     LTIP.      All outstanding share-based compensation under the 1998     LTIP continues to be governed by the terms and conditions of the existing agreements for those grants.  Grants may continue to be made under the 2008     LTIP through April     2018.      Under the 2008     LTIP, the number of shares of Common Stock that may be granted as share-based compensation in any year is limited to   2%   of our issued and outstanding Common Stock as of   December 31   of the prior calendar year.      Any unused portion is available for later years.      The limit may be increased up to   3%   in any year, with a corresponding reduction in shares available for grants in future years.  At   December 31, 2012   the number of unused shares carried forward was   157 million   shares.   
    
  We primarily issue two types of share-based compensation awards, restricted stock units ("RSUs") and stock options. 
    
    FS-71 

    FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 22.  SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION   (Continued) 
    
  We grant performance-based and time-based RSUs to our employees.  RSUs provide the recipients with the right to shares of Common Stock after a restriction period.  We measure the fair value using the closing price of our Common Stock on grant date.  Expenses associated with RSUs are recorded in   Selling, administrative, and other expense  . 
    
  Time-based RSUs generally have a graded vesting feature whereby one-third of each     grant of RSUs vests after the first anniversary of the grant date, one-third after the second anniversary, and one-third after the third anniversary.  Expense is recognized using the graded vesting method and is based on the   fair value at grant date. 
    
  Performance-based RSUs have a performance period (usually   one   year) followed by a restriction period (usually   two   years).  Compensation expense for performance-based RSUs is recognized when it is probable and estimable as measured against the performance metrics.      Expense is recognized over the performance and restriction periods, if any, and is based on the fair value at grant date. 
    
  We also grant stock options to our employees.  We measure the fair value of our stock options using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, using historical volatility and our determination of the expected term.  The expected term of stock options is the time period that the stock options are expected to be outstanding.  Historical data are used to estimate option exercise behaviors and employee termination experience. 
    
  Stock options generally have a vesting feature whereby one-third of each grant of stock options are exercisable after the first anniversary of the grant date, one-third after the second anniversary, and one-third after the third anniversary.  Stock options expire   10   years from the grant date and are expensed in   Selling, administrative, and other expenses   using a   three  -year graded vesting methodology. 
    
  We issue new shares of Common Stock upon vesting of RSUs and upon exercise of stock options. 
    
  Restricted Stock Units 
    
  RSU activity during   2012   was as follows: 

Intrinsic value of RSUs is measured by applying the closing stock price as of   December 31   to the applicable number of units.  The fair value and intrinsic value of RSUs during   2012  ,   2011  , and   2010   were as follows (in millions, except RSU per unit amounts): 

FS-72 

    FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 22.  SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION   (Continued) 
    
  Compensation cost for RSUs for the years ended December 31 was as follows (in millions): 

__________ 
     
  As of   December 31, 2012  , there was approximately   $48 million   in unrecognized compens  ation cost related to non-vested RSUs.  This expense will be recognized over a weighted average period of   1.8 years  . 
    
  Stock Options 
    
  Stock option activity was as follows: 

__________ 
     
  The total grant date fair value of options that vested during the years ended   December 31   was as follows (in millions): 

We have   96.5 million   fully-vested stock options, with a weighted-average exercise price of   $8.67   and average remaining term of   4 years  .  We expect   11.3 million   stock options (after forfeitures), with a weighted-average exercise price of   $13.08   and average remaining term of   9 years  , to vest in the future. 
    
  The intrinsic value for stock options is measured by comparing the awarded option price to the closing stock price at December 31.  The intrinsic value for vested and unvested options during the years ended   December 31   was as follows (in millions): 

We received approximately   $43 million   in proceeds from the exercise of stock options in   2012  .  The tax benefit realized was de minimis.  An equivalent of about   $87 million   in new issues were used to settle exercised options.  For options exercised during the years ended   December 31, 2012  ,   2011  , and   2010  , the difference between the fair value of the Common Stock issued and the respective exercise price was   $44 million  ,   $54 million  , and   $187 million  , respectively. 
    
  Compensation cost for stock options for the years ended December 31 was as follows (in millions): 

__________ 
     FS-73 

    FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 22.  SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION   (Continued) 
    
  As of   December 31, 2012  , there was about   $10 million   in   unrecognized compe  nsation cost related to non-vested stock options.  This expense will be recognized over a weighted-average period of   1.9 years  .  A summary of the status of our non-vested shares and changes during   2012   follows: 

The estimated fair value of stock options at the time of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model was as follows: 

Details on various stock option exercise price ranges are as follows: 

Other Share-Based Awards 
    
  Under the 1998 LTIP and 2008 LTIP, we have granted other share-based awards to certain employees.  These awards include restricted stock grants, cash-settled restricted stock units, and stock appreciation rights.  These awards have various vesting criteria which may include service requirements, individual performance targets, and company-wide performance targets. 
    
  Other share-based compensation cost for the years ended December 31 was as follows (in millions): 

__________ 

FS-74 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 23.  EMPLOYEE SEPARATION ACTIONS 
    
  As part of our plan to realign our vehicle assembly capacity to operate profitably at the current demand and changing model mix, we have implemented a number of different employee separation plans.  The accounting for employee separation plans is dependent on the specific design of the plans. 
    
  Under certain labor agreements, we are required to pay transitional benefits to our employees who are idled.  For employees who will be temporarily idled, we expense the benefits on an as-incurred basis.  For employees who will be permanently idled, we expense all of the future benefit payments in the period when it is probable that the employees will be permanently idled.  Our reserve balance for these future benefit payments to permanently idled employees takes into account several factors:  the demographics of the population at each affected facility, redeployment alternatives, estimate of benefits to be paid, and recent experience relative to voluntary redeployments. 
    
  We also incur payments to employees for separation actions.  The costs of voluntary employee separation actions are recorded at the time of employee acceptance, unless the acceptance requires explicit approval by the Company.  The costs of involuntary separation programs are accrued when management has approved the program and the affected employees are identified. 
    
  Automotive Sector 
    
  Transitional Benefits 
    
  Our collective bargaining agreements with the UAW and the CAW require us to pay a portion of wages and benefits for a specified period of time to employees who are considered permanently idled and who meet certain conditions.  We have established a reserve for employee benefits that we expect to provide under our collective bargaining agreements.  At December 31, 2012 and 2011, this reserve was   $66 million   and   $153 million  , respectively.   
    
  The balance in the reserve primarily relates to the closure of our St. Thomas Assembly Plant in Canada, which was announced in the fourth quarter of 2009. 
    
  Separation Actions 
    
  The following table shows pre-tax charges for hourly and salaried employee separation actions, which are recorded in   Automotive cost of sales   and   Selling, administrative, and other expenses   for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 

The charges above exclude costs for pension and OPEB. 
    
  Financial Services Sector 
    
  Separation Actions 
    
  We recorded in   Selling, administrative, and other expenses   pre-tax charges of   $7 million  ,   $32 million  , and   $33 million   for 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively, for employee separation actions.      These charges exclude costs for pension and OPEB. 

FS-75 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 24.  INCOME TAXES 
    
  In accordance with GAAP, we have elected to recognize accrued interest related to unrecognized tax benefits and tax-related penalties in the   Provision for/(Benefit from) income taxes   on our consolidated income statement. 
    
  Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 
    
  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on the future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences that exist between the financial statement carrying value of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards on a taxing jurisdiction basis.  We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates that will apply in the years in which we expect the temporary differences to be recovered or paid. 
    
  Our accounting for deferred tax consequences represents our best estimate of the likely future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns and their future probability.  In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider both positive and negative evidence related to the likelihood of realization of the deferred tax assets.  If, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized, we record a valuation allowance. 
    
  Components of Income Taxes 
    
  Components of income taxes excluding discontinued operations, cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles, other comprehensive income, and equity in net results of affiliated companies accounted for after-tax, are as follows: 

FS-76 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 24.  INCOME TAXES   (Continued) 
    
  We historically have provided deferred taxes for the presumed repatriation to the United States of earnings from nearly all non-U.S. subsidiaries.  During 2011, we determined that   $6.9 billion   of these non-U.S. subsidiaries' undistributed earnings are now indefinitely reinvested outside the United States.  As management has determined that the earnings of these subsidiaries are not required as a source of funding for U.S. operations, such earnings are not planned to be distributed to the United States in the foreseeable future.  As a result of this change in assertion, deferred tax liabilities related to undistributed foreign earnings decreased by   $63 million  . 
    
  As of December 31, 2012,   $6.6 billion   of non-U.S. earnings are considered indefinitely reinvested in operations outside the United States, for which deferred taxes have not been provided.  These earnings have been subject to significant non-U.S. taxes; repatriation in their entirety would result in a residual U.S. tax liability of about   $600 million  . 
    
  At the end of 2011, our U.S. operations had returned to a position of cumulative profits for the most recent   3  -year period.  We concluded that this record of cumulati  ve profitability in recent years, our   ten   consecutive quarters of pre-tax operating profits, our successful completion of labor negotiations with the UAW, and our business plan showing continued profitability provided assurance that our future tax benefits more likely than not would be realized.  Accordingly, at year-end 2011, we released almost all of our valuation allow  ance against net deferred tax assets for entities in the United States, Canada, and Spain. 
    
  At December 31, 2012, we have retained a valuation allowance against approximately   $500 million   in North America related to various state and local operating loss carryforwards that are subject to restrictive rules for future utilization, and a valuation allowance totaling   $1.4 billion   primarily against deferred tax assets for our South American operations. 
    
  Components of Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 
    
  The components of deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows (in millions): 

Operating loss carryforwards for tax purposes were   $6.9 billion   at   December 31, 2012  , resulting in a deferred tax asset of   $2.4 billion  .  A substantial portion of these losses begin to expire in 2029; the remaining losses will begin to expire in 2018.  Tax credits available to offset future tax liabilities are   $5 billion  .  A substantial portion of these credits have a remaining carryforward period of   10   years or more.  Tax benefits of operating loss and tax credit carryforwards are evaluated on an ongoing basis, including a review of historical and projected future operating results, the eligible carryforward period, and other circumstances. 
    FS-77 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 24.  INCOME TAXES   (Continued) 
    
  Other 
    
  A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows for the years listed (in millions): 

The amount of unrecognized tax benefits at   December 31, 2012   and   2011   that would affect the effective tax rate if recognized was   $1.2 billion   and   $1.2 billion  , respectively. 
    
  Examinations by tax authorities have been completed through 2004 in Germany, and through 2007 in Canada, the United States, and the United Kingdom.  Although examinations have been completed in these jurisdi  ctions, limited transfer pricing disputes exist for years dating back to 1996. 
    
  We recorded in our consolidated income statement approximately   $9 million  ,   $77 million  , and   $45 million   in tax-related interest income for the years ended   December 31, 2012  ,   2011  , and   2010  .  As of   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , we had recorded a net payable of   $120 million   and   $171 million  , respectively, for tax-related interest. 

FS-78 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 25.  DISPOSITIONS AND OTHER CHANGES IN INVESTMENTS IN AFFILIATES 
    
  We classify assets and liabilities as held for sale ("disposal group") when management, having the authority to approve the action, commits to a plan to sell the disposal group, the sale is probable within one year, and the disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.  We also consider whether an active program to locate a buyer has been initiated, whether the disposal group is marketed actively for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value, and whether actions required to complete the plan indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that the plan will be withdrawn.  We classify a disposal group as a discontinued operation when the criteria to be classified as held for sale have been met and we will not have any significant involvement with the disposal group after the sale. 
    
  When we classify a disposal group as held for sale, we test for impairment.  An impairment charge is recognized when the carrying value of the disposal group exceeds the estimated fair value, less transaction costs. 
    
  We aggregate the assets and liabilities of all held-for-sale disposal groups on the balance sheet for the period in which the disposal group is held for sale.  To provide comparative balance sheets, we also aggregate the assets and liabilities for significant held-for-sale disposal groups on the prior-period balance sheet. 
    
  Automotive Sector 
    
  Dispositions 
    
  Automotive Components Holdings, LLC ("ACH").    On June 30, 2012, ACH completed the sale of its automotive lighting business located at its Ohio facilities to Ventra Sandusky, a Flex-N-Gate group affiliate  .    Ventra Sandusky will continue to supply Ford with automotive lighting components and service parts from the Sandusky and Bellevue facilities.  As a result of this transaction, we recognized a second quarter pre-tax loss of $  77 million   reported in   Automotive interest income and other income/(loss), net  .  Additionally, we assumed a contractual obligation of $  15 million   associated with the pricing of products to be purchased over the   four and one-half  -year term of the related purchase and supply agreement with Ventra Sandusky. 
    
  On June 1, 2012, ACH completed the sale of its automotive interior trim components business located at its Saline, Michigan plant to Faurecia  .    Faurecia will continue to supply Ford with interior trim components from the Saline facility as well as other Faurecia facilities.  As a result of this transaction, we recognized a second quarter pre-tax loss of $  96 million   reported in   Automotive interest income and other income/(loss), net  .  Additionally, we assumed contractual obligations of $  182 million   associated with the pricing of products to be purchased over the   six  -year terms of the related purchase and supply agreements with Faurecia and an affiliate of Faurecia.  
    
  Ford Russia.    During the second quarter of 2011, we signed an agreement with Sollers OJSC ("Sollers") establishing FordSollers, a   50  /  50   joint venture in Russia.  On October 1, 2011, we contributed our wholly-owned operations in Russia, consisting primarily of a manufacturing plant near St. Petersburg and access to our Russian dealership network, to the joint venture.  Additionally, we entered into an agreement with FordSollers for the granting of an exclusive right to manufacture, assemble, and distribute certain Ford-brand vehicles in Russia through the licensing of certain trademarks and intellectual property rights.  Sollers contributed two production facilities.  The joint venture is engaged in the manufacturing and distribution of a range of Ford passenger cars and light commercial vehicles in Russia.  As part of our ongoing relationship with FordSollers, we supply parts and other vehicle components to the joint venture and receive a royalty of   5%   of the joint venture's net sales revenue. 
    
  Upon contribution of our wholly-owned operations in Russia to the joint venture in exchange for a   50  % equity interest, we deconsolidated the assets and liabilities, recorded an equity method investment in FordSollers at its fair value of   $364 million  , and recognized a pre-tax gain of   $178 million   attributable to the remeasurement to fair value of the retained investment.  In addition, we received cash proceeds of   $174 million  , recorded a note receivable in the amount of   $133 million  , recorded a payable of   $27 million  , and recognized loss in accumulated foreign currency adjustment of   $57 million  .  The total pre-tax gain of   $401 million   is reported in   Automotive interest income and other income/(expense), net. 
    FS-79 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 25.  DISPOSITIONS AND OTHER CHANGES IN INVESTMENTS IN AFFILIATES   (Continued) 
    
  We measured the fair value of our equity interest using the income approach.  We used cash flows that were developed jointly by Ford and Sollers.  The significant assumptions used in this approach included: 
    
     Projected growth in the Russian automobile market; 
     Reduced import duties on certain auto parts; and 
             
    A discount rate of   16%   based on an appropriate weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for perceived business risks related to regulatory concerns, foreign exchange volatility, execution risk, and risk associated with the Russian automotive industry. 
       
  We, along with Sollers, pledged   100%   of the shares in the joint venture to the State Corporation Bank for Development and Foreign Economic Operations - Vnesheconombank ("VEB") as collateral securing the joint venture's debt. 
  Other Changes in Investments in Affiliates 
    
  AAI.    AAI is a   50  /  50   joint venture between Ford and Mazda that operates an automobile assembly plant in Flat Rock, Michigan.  In September 2011, we signed a Memorandum of Understanding ("MOU") with Mazda to change our future business relationship with respect to AAI.  Pursuant to the terms of the MOU, in the third quarter of 2012 the assembly plant ceased production of Mazda vehicles and on   September 1, 2012   we acquired full management control of AAI.  
    
  In exchange, beginning on September 1, 2015, for a   three   year period, we have granted to Mazda a put option to sell, and received a call option to purchase from Mazda, the   50%   equity interest in AAI that is held by Mazda ("the Option").  The Option is exercisable at a price of   $338 million   as determined by a formula based on AAI's final   December 31, 2012   closing balance sheet. 
    
  The change in management control resulted in a business combination on September 1, 2012 and we consolidated AAI under the acquisition method of accounting.  We measured the fair value of AAI using the income approach and used cash flows that reflect our approved business plan for AAI.  We assumed a discount rate of   10%   based on an appropriate weighted average cost of capital adjusted for perceived business risks.  The fair value of   100%   of AAI's identifiable net assets was   $868 million  , as shown below (in millions):    
 ___________ 
  (a)    As of September 1, 2012, intercompany assets of   $121 million   and intercompany liabilities of   $306 million   have been eliminated in both consolidated and sector balance sheets. 
    
  As part of the business combination, the Option was recorded as a redeemable noncontrolling interest in the mezzanine section of our balance sheet at the then fair value of   $319 million   (see Note 19).  This represents the discounted cash flow of the option price using Ford's incremental borrowing rate of   2.75%  . 
  As a result, the fair value attributable to our investment in AAI at September 1, 2012 was   $549 million  .  The excess of this fair value over the carrying value of our previously recorded   50%   unconsolidated equity interest resulted in a third quarter 2012 pre-tax gain of   $155 million   in   Automotive interest income and other income/(loss), net.  
    FS-80 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 25.  DISPOSITIONS AND OTHER CHANGES IN INVESTMENTS IN AFFILIATES   (Continued) 
    
  CFMA  .  Our Chinese joint venture CFMA, whose members include Chongqing Changan Automobile Co., Ltd. ("Changan") (  50%   partner), Mazda (  15%   partner) and us (  35%   partner), produces and distributes in China an expanding variety of Ford passenger car models, as well as Mazda and Volvo models.  On November 30, 2012, CFMA transferred its Nanjing operations to Changan Mazda Automobile L  td. ("CMA"), and CFMA was r  enamed CAF.  Immediately after the split, Ford and Mazda fully exchanged their respective interest in the two joint ventures.  As a result, Ford now owns a   50%   interest in CAF and Mazda owns a   50%   interest in CMA; Changan remains a   50%   partner in each joint venture.  CMA will continue to assemble vehicles for CAF as a contract manufacturer until 2014.  
    
  Upon the exchange, we de-recognized the historical carrying value of our equity investment in CMA of   $115 million  , increased our equity investment in CAF by the fair value of the interest received of   $740 million  , and recognized a fourth quarter 2012 pre-tax gain of   $625 million   in   Automotive interest income and other income/(expense), net  .    
    
  Financial Services Sector 
    
  Dispositions 
  Asia Pacific Markets.    In 2011, Ford Credit recorded foreign currency translation adjustments of   $60 million   (including   $72 million   recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011), related to the strategic decision to exit retail and wholesale financing in certain Asia Pacific markets.  These adjustments decreased   Accumulated other comprehensive income   (foreign currency translation) and increased pre-tax income, which was recorded to   Financial Services other income/loss, net  . 
    
    FS-81 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 26.  CAPITAL STOCK AND AMOUNTS PER SHARE 
    
  All general voting power is vested in the holders of Common Stock and Class B Stock.  Holders of our Common Stock have   60%   of the general voting power and holders of our Class B Stock are entitled to such number of votes per share as will give them the remaining   40%  .  Shares of Common Stock and Class B Stock share equally in dividends when and as paid, with stock dividends payable in shares of stock of the class held.   
    
  If liquidated, each share of Common Stock will be entitled to the first   $0.50   available for distribution to holders of Common Stock and Class B Stock, each share of Class B Stock will be entitled to the next   $1.00   so available, each share of Common Stock will be entitled to the next   $0.50   so available and each share of Common and Class B Stock will be entitled to an equal amount thereafter. 
    
  We present both basic and diluted earnings per share ("EPS") amounts in our financial reporting.  EPS is computed independently each quarter for income from continuing operations, income from discontinued operations, and net income; as a result, the sum of per-share amounts from continuing operations and discontinued operations may not equal the total per-share amount for net earnings.  Basic EPS excludes dilution and is computed by dividing income available to Common and Class B Stock holders by the weighted-average number of Common and Class B Stock outstanding for the period.  Diluted EPS reflects the maximum potential dilution that could occur if all of our equity-linked securities and other share-based compensation, including stock options, warrants, and rights under our convertible notes, were exercised.  Potential dilutive shares are excluded from the calculation if they have an anti-dilutive effect in the period. 
    
  Warrants 
    
  As part of the transfer of assets to the UAW VEBA Trust on December 31, 2009, we issued warrants to purchase   362,391,305   shares of Ford Common Stock at an exercise price of   $9.20   per share, which was subsequently adjusted to   $9.01   per share.  On April 6, 2010, the UAW VEBA Trust sold all such warrants to parties unrelated to us.  In connection with the sale, the terms of the warrants were modified to provide for, among other things, net share settlement as the only permitted settlement method thereby eliminating full physical settlement as an option, and elimination of certain of the transfer restrictions applicable to the underlying stock. We received no proceeds from the offering. 
    
  The warrants expired by their terms on January 1, 2013.  By the deadline for exercise of December 31, 2012,   362 million   warrants were exercised on a net share settlement basis.  This resulted in the issuance of   106 million   shares of Common Stock, of which   72 million   shares were issued on January 8, 2013 in settlement of exercises that took place during the last four trading days of 2012. Because we were obligated in 2012 to issue the shares, all   106 million   shares issued for warrant exercises are reflected on our consolidated and sector balance sheets as being outstanding at December 31, 2012.  No warrants are presently outstanding. 
    
  Dividend Declaration 
    
  On January 10, 2013, our Board of Directors declared a first quarter 2013 dividend on our Common and Class B Stock of   $0.10   per share payable on March 1, 2013 to stockholders of record on January 30, 2013.  
    
  Effect of Dividends on Convertible Notes 
    
  As a result of dividends totaling   $0.20   per share (  $0.05   per share in each quarter of 2012) paid on our Common Stock, the conversion rates for our outstanding convertible notes (see Note 17) have been adjusted pursuant to their terms as follows: 

FS-82 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 26.  CAPITAL STOCK AND AMOUNTS PER SHARE   (Continued) 
    
  Amounts Per Share Attributable to Ford Motor Company Common and Class B Stock 
    
  Basic and diluted income per share were calculated using the following (in millions): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    As applicable, includes interest expense, amortization of discount, amortization of fees, and other changes in income or loss that would result from the assumed conversion. 
              (b) 
    The Trust Preferred Securities, which were convertible into Ford Common Stock, were fully redeemed on March 15, 2011.  
              (c) 
    Includes (i)   53 million   in average net dilutive shares for 2012 for warrants outstanding prior to exercise and (ii)   9 million   in average basic shares outstanding for 2012 for shares issued for warrants exercised. In total, by the deadline for exercise of December 31, 2012,   362 million   warrants were exercised on a net share settlement basis, resulting in the issuance of   106 million   shares.   

FS-83 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 27.  OPERATING CASH FLOWS 
    
  The reconciliation of   Net income attributable to Ford Motor Company   to   Net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities   for the years ended December 31 was as follows (in millions): 

_________ 
           (a) 
    See Note 1 for a reconciliation of the sum of the sector net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities to the consolidated net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities. 

FS-84 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 27.  OPERATING CASH FLOWS   (Continued) 

_________ 
           (a) 
    See Note 1 for a reconciliation of the sum of the sector net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities to the consolidated net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities. 
       
  Cash paid/(received) for interest and income taxes for continuing operations for the years ended December 31 was as follows (in millions): 

FS-85 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 28.  SEGMENT INFORMATION 
    
  Our operating activity consists of two operating sectors, Automotive and Financial Services.      Segment selection is based on the organizational structure we use to evaluate performance and make decisions on resource allocation, as well as availability and materiality of separate financial results consistent with that structure. 
    
  Automotive Sector 
    
  Our Automotive sector is divided into four segments:      1) Ford North America, 2) Ford South America, 3) Ford Europe, and 4) Ford Asia Pacific Africa.      Included in each segment, described below, are the associated costs to develop, manufacture, distribute, and service vehicles and parts. 
    
  Ford North America segment primarily includes the sale of Ford- and Lincoln-brand vehicles and related service parts and accessories in North America (the United States, Canada, and Mexico).     
    
  Ford South America segment primarily includes the sale of Ford-brand vehicles and related service parts and accessories in South America. 
    
  Ford Europe segment primarily includes the sale of Ford-brand vehicles, components, and related service parts and accessories in Europe, Turkey, and Russia. 
    
  Ford Asia Pacific Africa segment primarily includes the sale of Ford-brand vehicles and related service parts and accessories in the Asia Pacific region and South Africa.     
    
  Revenue from Ford-brand and Jiangling Motors Corporation-brand vehicles produced and distributed by our unconsolidated affiliates are not included in our revenue. 
    
  In August 2010 we completed the sale of Volvo.      Results for Volvo are reported as special items in 2010. 
    
  The Other Automotive component of the Automotive sector consists primarily of centrally-managed net interest expense and related fair market value adjustments. 
    
  Transactions among Automotive segments generally are presented on a "where-sold," absolute-cost basis, which reflects the profit/(loss) on the sale within the segment making the ultimate sale to an external entity.      This presentation generally eliminates the effect of legal entity transfer prices within the Automotive sector for vehicles, components, and product engineering.     
    
    FS-86 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 28.  SEGMENT INFORMATION   (Continued) 
    
  Financial Services Sector 
    
  The Financial Services sector includes the following segments: 1) Ford Credit, and 2) Other Financial Services.      Ford Credit provides vehicle-related financing, leasing, and insurance.      Other Financial Services includes a variety of businesses including holding companies, real estate, and the financing and leasing of some Volvo vehicles in Europe. 
    
  Special Items 
    
  Special items are presented as a separate reconciling item to reconcile segment results to consolidated results of the Company.      These special items include (i) personnel and dealer-related items stemming from our efforts to match production capacity and cost structure to market demand and changing model mix, and (ii) certain infrequent significant items that we generally do not consider to be indicative of our ongoing operating activities.       This presentation reflects the fact that management excludes these items from its review of the results of the operating segments for purposes of measuring segment profitability and allocating resources.     

FS-87 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 28.  SEGMENT INFORMATION   (Continued) 
    
  Key operating data for our business segments for the years ended or at   December 31   were as follows (in millions): 

FS-88 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 28.  SEGMENT INFORMATION   (Continued) 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Includes intersector transactions occurring in the ordinary course of business and deferred tax netting. 
              (b) 
    Interest income reflected on this line for Financial Services sector is non-financing related.  Interest income in the normal course of business for Financial Services sector is reported in   Financial Services revenues. 
       FS-89 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 29.  GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION 
    
  The following table includes information for both Automotive and Financial Services sectors for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 

__________ 
           (a) 
    Includes   Net property   from our consolidated balance sheet and Financial Services   Net investment in operating leases   from the sector balance sheet. 
       
    FS-90 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 30.  SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (unaudited) 
    
  Selected financial data by calendar quarter were as follows (in millions, except per share amounts): 

Certain of the quarterly results identified above include material unusual or infrequently occurring items as follows: 
    
  The pre-tax income of   $1.8 billion   in the fourth quarter of 2012 includes 1) a   $250 million   unfavorable item related to the U.S. salaried lump sum pension buyout program (see Note 16), and 2) a   $625 million   gain related to the reorganization of our equity investment in CFMA (see Note 25).  
    
  The pre-tax income of   $1.5 billion   in the fourth quarter of 2011 includes a   $401 million   gain related to the sale of our Russian operations to the newly-created FordSollers joint venture, which began operations on October 1, 2011. 
    
  The net income attributable to Ford Motor Company of   $13.6 billion   in the fourth quarter of 2011 includes a   $12.4 billion   favorable item, reflecting the release of almost all of the valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets. 

FS-91 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 31.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 
    
  Commitments and contingencies consist primarily of guarantees and indemnifications, litigation and claims, and warranty. 
    
  Guarantees are recorded at fair value at the inception of the guarantee.  Litigation and claims are accrued when losses are deemed probable and reasonably estimable. 
    
  Estimated warranty costs and additional service actions are accrued for at the time the vehicle is sold to a dealer, including costs for basic warranty coverage on vehicles sold, product recalls, and other customer service actions.  Fees or premiums for the issuance of extended service plans are recognized in income over the contract period in proportion to the costs expected to be incurred in performing services under the contract. 
    
  Guarantees  
    
  At   December 31, 2012   and   December 31, 2011  , the following guarantees and indemnifications were issued and outstanding: 
    
  Guarantees related to affiliates and third parties.    We guarantee debt and lease obligations of certain joint ventures, as well as certain financial obligations of outside third parties, including suppliers, to support our business and economic growth.  Expiration dates vary through 2019, and guarantees will terminate on payment and/or cancellation of the obligation.  A payment by us would be triggered by failure of the joint venture or other third party to fulfill its obligation covered by the guarantee.  In some circumstances, we are entitled to recover from the third party amounts paid by us under the guarantee.  However, our ability to enforce these rights is sometimes stayed until the guaranteed party is paid in full, and may be limited in the event of insolvency of the third party or other circumstances.  The maximum potential payments under guarantees and the carrying value of recorded liabilities related to guarantees were as follows(in millions): 

We regularly review our performance risk under these guarantees, which has resulted in no changes to our initial valuations.   
    
  Indemnifications.    In the ordinary course of business, we execute contracts involving indemnifications standard in the industry and indemnifications specific to a transaction, such as the sale of a business.  These indemnifications might include and are not limited to claims relating to any of the following: environmental, tax, and shareholder matters; intellectual property rights; power generation contracts; governmental regulations and employment-related matters; dealers, supplier, and other commercial contractual relationships; and financial matters, such as securitizations.  Performance under these indemnities generally would be triggered by a breach of terms of the contract or by a third-party claim.  We also are party to numerous indemnifications which do not limit potential payment; therefore, we are unable to estimate a maximum amount of potential future payments that could result from claims made under these indemnities. 
    
  Litigation and Claims 
    
  Various legal actions, proceedings, and claims (generally, "matters") are pending or may be instituted or asserted against us.  These include but are not limited to matters arising out of alleged defects in our products; product warranties; governmental regulations relating to safety, emissions, and fuel economy or other matters; government incentives; tax matters; alleged illegal acts resulting in fines or penalties; financial services; employment-related matters; dealer, supplier, and other contractual relationships; intellectual property rights; environmental matters; shareholder or investor matters; and financial reporting matters.  Certain of the pending legal actions are, or purport to be, class actions.  Some of the matters involve or may involve claims for compensatory, punitive, or antitrust or other treble damages in very large amounts, or demands for recall campaigns, environmental remediation programs, sanctions, loss of government incentives, assessments, or other relief, which, if granted, would require very large expenditures.  
    
  The extent of our financial exposure to these matters is difficult to estimate.  Many matters do not specify a dollar amount for damages, and many others specify only a jurisdictional minimum.  To the extent an amount is asserted, our historical experience suggests that in most instances the amount asserted is not a reliable indicator of the ultimate outcome.   
    FS-92 

      FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

   NOTE 31.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES   (Continued) 
    
  In evaluating for accrual and disclosure purposes matters filed against us, we take into consideration factors such as our historical experience with matters of a similar nature, the specific facts and circumstances asserted, the likelihood of our prevailing, and the severity of any potential loss.  We reevaluate and update our accruals as matters progress over time. 
     
  For the majority of matters, which generally arise out of alleged defects in our products, we establish an accrual based on our extensive historical experience with similar matters, and we do not believe that there is a reasonably possible outcome materially in excess of our accrual.   
    
  For the remaining matters, where our historical experience with similar matters is of more limited value (i.e., "non-pattern matters"), we evaluate matters primarily based on the individual facts and circumstances.  For non-pattern matters, we evaluate whether there is a reasonable possibility of a material loss in excess of any accrual that can be estimated.  Our estimate of reasonably possible loss in excess of our accruals for all material matters currently reflects non-U.S. indirect tax matters, for which we estimate this aggregate risk to be a range of up to about   $2.3 billion  .   
    
  As noted, the litigation process is subject to many uncertainties, and the outcome of individual litigated matters is not predictable with assurance.  Our assessments are based on our knowledge and experience, but the ultimate outcome of any matter could require payment substantially in excess of the amount that we have accrued and/or disclosed. 
    
  Warranty  
    
  Included in warranty cost accruals are the costs for basic warranty coverages and field service actions (i.e., product recalls and owner notification programs) on products sold.  These costs are estimates based primarily on historical warranty claim experience.  Warranty accruals accounted for in   Accrued liabilities and deferred revenue   for the years ended   December 31   were as follows (in millions): 

Excluded from the table above are costs accrued for customer satisfaction actions. 
    
    FS-93 

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 
  (in millions) 

_________ 
           (a) 
    Finance receivables and lease investments deemed to be uncollectible and other changes, principally amounts related to finance receivables sold and translation adjustments. 
              (b) 
    Excludes Volvo. 
              (c) 
    Accounts and notes receivable deemed to be uncollectible as well as translation adjustments. 
              (d) 
    Net change in inventory allowances.   
               (f) 
    Deductions relate primarily to the disposition of Volvo. 

FSS-1 

<EX-10.A>
 2
 f12312012exhibit10-a.htm
 EXHIBIT

F 12.31.2012 Exhibit 10-A 

Exhibit 10-A 
    
  FORD MOTOR COMPANY 
  Executive Separation Allowance Plan 
  (As amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2012) 
    
    Section 1.      Introduction  .  This Plan has been established for the purpose of providing Leadership Level One or Two Employees with an Executive Separation Allowance in the event of separation from employment with the Company under certain circumstances. 
    
    Section 2.      Definitions  .  As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the following meanings, respectively: 
    
  "  Affiliate  " shall mean, as applied with respect to any person or legal entity specified, a person or legal entity that directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls or is controlled by, or is under common control with, the person or legal entity specified. 
    
  "Code"   shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. 
    
  "  Company  " shall mean Ford Motor Company and such of the subsidiaries of Ford Motor Company as, with the consent of Ford Motor Company, shall have adopted this Plan. 
    
  "  Contributory Service  " shall mean, without duplication, the years and any fractional year of contributory service at retirement, not exceeding one year for any calendar year, of the Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee under the Ford Motor Company General Retirement Plan. 
    
  "  Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee  " shall mean a Leadership Level One or Two Employee who was hired or rehired prior to January 1, 2004 and who meets the eligibility criteria set forth in Section 3, or for periods prior to January 1, 2000, shall mean an Executive Roll Employee who meets the eligibility criteria set forth in Section 3. 
    
  "  Eligible Surviving Spouse  " shall mean a spouse, as defined by the Federal Defense of Marriage Act of 1996, to whom a Leadership Level One or Two Employee has been married at least one year at the date of the employee's death. 
    
  "Executive Separation Allowance"   shall mean benefits payable under this Plan as determined in accordance with Section 4. 
    
  "  Leadership Level One or Two Employee  " shall mean an employee of the Company (but for periods prior to July 1, 1996, excluding a Company employee who is an employee of Jaguar Cars, a division of the Company) who is assigned to the Leadership Level One or Two, or its equivalent, as such term is defined in the Employee Relations Administration Manual as from time to time constituted. 
    
  "Plan"   shall mean this Ford Motor Company Executive Separation Allowance Plan, as amended from time to time. 
    
  "Separation From Service"   shall be determined to have occurred on the date on which an Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee incurs a  separation from service  within the meaning of Code Section 409A. 
    
  "  Service  " shall mean an eligible employee's years of service (including fractions of years) used in determining eligibility for an early retirement benefit under the Ford Motor Company General Retirement Plan. 
    
  "Specified Employee"   shall mean an employee of the Company who is a "Key Employee" as defined in Code Section 416(i)(1)(A)(i), (ii) or (iii), applied in accordance with the regulations thereunder and disregarding Subsection 416(i)(5).  A Specified Employee shall be identified as of December 31   st    of each calendar year and such identification shall apply to any Specified Employee who shall incur a Separation From Service in the 12-month period commencing April 1   st    of the immediately succeeding calendar year.   

An employee who is determined to be a Specified Employee shall remain a Specified Employee throughout such 12-month period regardless of whether the employee meets the definition of "Specified Employee" on the date the employee incurs a Separation From Service.  This provision is effective for Specified Employees who incur a Separation From Service on or after January 1, 2005.  For purposes of determining Specified Employees, the definition of compensation under Treasury Regulation Section 1.415(c)-2(d)(3) shall be used, applied without the use of any of the special timing rules provided in Treasury Regulation Section 1.415(c)-2(e) or the special rule in Treasury Regulation Section 1.415(c)-2(g)(5)(i), but applied with the use of the special rule in Treasury Regulation Section 1.415(c)-2(g)(5)(ii).   
    
  "  Subsidiary  " shall mean, as applied with respect to any person or legal entity specified, (i) a person or legal entity a majority of the voting stock of which is owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the person or legal entity specified or (ii) any other type of business organization in which the person or legal entity specified owns or controls, directly or indirectly, a majority interest. 
    
    Section 3.      Eligibility  .  Each Leadership Level One or Two Employee who: 
    
    (1)        was hired or rehired prior to January 1, 2004; 
    
    (2)        is being Separated From Service with the approval of the Company; 
    
    (3)        has at least five years service at the Leadership Level One or Two level, or its equivalent; 
    
    (4)        has at least ten years of combined Contributory Service or service in any other retirement plan sponsored by a Subsidiary to which the Level One or Two Employee contributed or, if contributions were not permitted, participated; 
    
    (5)        is at least 55 years of age; and 
    
    (6)        retires from the Company prior to age 65 
    
  shall receive an Executive Separation Allowance as provided herein.  The Eligible Surviving Spouse of a Leadership Level One or Two Employee who (i) has not Separated From Service with the Company, (ii) meets the eligibility conditions set forth in Subsections (1) through (3) of this Section 3, and (iii) dies on or after January 1, 1981 shall be eligible to receive the Executive Separation Allowance that the Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee would have been eligible to receive if such employee had Separated From Service with the approval of the Company and retired on the date of such employee's death. 
    
    The eligibility conditions set forth in Subsections (3) and (4) of Section 3 may be waived by the Executive Chairman except in the case of a Leadership Level One or Two Employee who has not Separated From Service with the Company. 
    
    Section 4.      Calculation of Amount  . 
    
    A.      Base Monthly Salary  .  For purposes of the Plan, the "Base Monthly Salary" of a Leadership Level One or Two Employee shall be the highest monthly base salary rate of such employee during the employee's 12 months of service immediately preceding Separation From Service with the Company, prior to giving effect to any salary reduction agreement pursuant to an employee benefit plan, as defined in Section 3(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, (i) to which Code Section 125 or Code Section 402(e)(3), applies or (ii) which provides for the elective deferral of compensation.  It shall not include supplemental compensation or any other kind of extra or additional compensation. 
    
    B.      Amount of Executive Separation Allowance  .  Subject to any limitation in other provisions of the Plan, the gross monthly amount of the Executive Separation Allowance of an Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee under Section 3 above shall be such employee's Base Monthly Salary multiplied by a percentage, not to exceed 60%, equal to the sum of (i) 15%, (ii) five tenths of one percent (.5%) for each month (or fraction thereof) that such employee's age at Separation From Service exceeds 55, not to exceed thirty percent (30%), and (iii) one percent (1%) for each year of such employee's Service in excess of 15, prorated for fractions of a year. 

The gross amount for any month shall be reduced by any payments paid or payable for such month to the Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee, the employee's Eligible Surviving Spouse, contingent annuitant, or other beneficiary, (i) under the General Retirement Plan, Benefit Equalization Plan,  Select Retirement Plan, or any other Company defined benefit retirement plan, or (ii) as a Pension Parity Benefit from the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, other than (a) Supplemental Benefit or Conditional Annuity payments paid or payable from the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, (b) under any other Company defined benefit retirement plan from which a voluntary distribution of a lump sum benefit has occurred before age 65, by the monthly annuity payment the Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee would have received had the lump sum distribution not occurred, or (c) under any other defined benefit retirement plan from which an involuntary distribution of a lump sum benefit on an actuarially equivalent basis occurred before age 65 and without the Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee's retirement. 
    
    C.  Special Executive Separation Allowances.    In addition to any other Executive Separation Allowance provided under this Plan, the Company may, in its sole discretion, provide special Executive Separation Allowances to certain Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employees.  Special Executive Separation Allowances provided to Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employees whose compensation is subject to the executive compensation disclosure rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 shall be set forth in Appendix A.  Special Equalization Benefits provided to Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employees who are not subject to such disclosure rules shall be set forth in a separate confidential schedule to the Plan that is administered by the HR Director-Executive Personnel Office.  Any special Executive Separation Allowance provided pursuant to this Section shall be paid in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Plan, including without limitation Section 5. 
    
    Section 5.      Payments  .  Executive Separation Allowance payments to an Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee, in the net amount determined in accordance with Section 4B above, shall be made monthly from the Company's general funds commencing on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the first day of the month following the date on which the Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee has a Separation From Service.  Payments to an Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee shall cease at the end of the month in which such employee attains age 65 or dies, whichever occurs first.  In the event of death of an Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee prior to such employee attaining age 65, or in the event of death on or after January 1, 1981 of a Leadership Level One or Two Employee whose Eligible Surviving Spouse meets the eligibility conditions set forth in Section 3 for payments hereunder, payments shall be made to such employee's Eligible Surviving Spouse, if any, commencing as soon as reasonably practicable following the date of the Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee's death, and continuing until the earlier of the death of such Eligible Surviving Spouse, or the end of the month in which the Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee would have attained age 65. 
    
      Anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding, the right of any Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee to receive an installment of Executive Separation Allowance hereunder for any month shall be payable only if: 
    
           (i) 
    During the entire period from the date of such employee's Separation From Service to the end of such month, such employee shall have earned out such installment by refraining from engaging in any activity that is directly or indirectly in competition with any activity of the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof; 
              (ii) 
    If a Specified Employee incurs a Separation From Service, other than as a result of such Specified Employee's death, payment of any Executive Separation Allowance benefit to such Specified Employee shall commence on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the first day of the seventh month following the Separation From Service and any Executive Separation Allowance benefits to which such Specified Employee otherwise would have been entitled during the first six months following such Specified Employee's Separation From Service shall be accumulated and paid in a lump sum payment on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the first day of the seventh month following such Separation From Service; and 
              (iii) 
    The payments delayed under this Section shall not bear interest. 
       
  In the event of an Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee's nonfulfillment of the condition set forth in the immediately preceding paragraph, no further installment shall be paid to such employee; provided, however, that the nonfulfillment of such condition may at any time (whether before, at the time of or subsequent to termination of the employee's employment) be waived in the following manner: 

(1) with respect to any such employee who at any time shall have been a member of the Board of Directors, a Vice President, the Treasurer, the Controller or the Secretary of the Company, such waiver may be granted by the Compensation Committee upon its determination that in its sole judgment there shall have not been and will not be any substantial adverse effect upon the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof by reason of the nonfulfillment of such condition; and 
    
    (2) with respect to any other such employee, such waiver may be granted by the Annual Incentive Compensation Committee (or any committee appointed for the purpose) upon its determination that in its sole judgment there shall not have been and will not be any such substantial adverse effect. 
    
    Anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding, Executive Separation Allowance payments shall not be paid to or with respect to any person as to whom it has been determined that such person at any time (whether before or subsequent to termination of the employee's employment) acted in a manner inimical to the best interests of the Company.  Any such determination shall be made by (i) the Compensation Committee with respect to any Leadership Level One Employee who at any time shall have been a member of the Board of Directors, an Executive Vice President, a Vice President, the Treasurer, the Controller or the Secretary of the Company, and (ii) the Annual Incentive Compensation Committee with respect to any other Leadership Level One or Two Employee, and shall apply to any amounts payable after the date of the applicable Committee's action hereunder, regardless of whether the person has commenced receiving Executive Separation Allowance.  Conduct which constitutes engaging in an activity that is directly or indirectly in competition with any activity of the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof shall be governed by the four immediately preceding paragraphs of this Section and shall not be subject to any determination under this paragraph. 
    
    Section 6.      Deductions  .  The Company may deduct from any payment of Executive Separation Allowance to an Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee or Eligible Surviving Spouse any and all amounts owed to it by such Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee or Eligible Surviving Spouse for any reason, and all taxes required by law or government regulation to be deducted or withheld. 
    
    Section 7.      Administration and Interpretation  .       Except as the committees specified in Section 5 and the Executive Chairman is authorized to administer the Plan in certain respects, the Group Vice President -Human Resources and Corporate Services (or, in the event of a change in title, such officer's functional equivalent) shall have full power and authority on behalf of the Company to administer and interpret the Plan.  In the event of a change in a designated officer's title, the officer or officers with functional responsibility for executive separation allowance plans shall have the power and authority to administer and interpret the Plan.  All decisions with respect to the administration and interpretation of the Plan shall be final and shall be binding upon all persons.  In the event that an Article, Section or paragraph of the Code, Treasury Regulations, or the Ford Motor Company General Retirement Plan is renumbered, such renumbered Article, Section or paragraph shall apply to applicable references herein. 
    
    Section 8.      Amendment and Termination.    The Company reserves the right to amend, modify or terminate the Plan at any time without notice; provided, however, that no distribution of Executive Separation Allowances shall occur upon termination of this Plan unless applicable requirements of Code Section 409A have been met. 
    
    Section 9.      Local Payment Authorities.    The Vice President and Treasurer and the Assistant Treasurer (or, in the event of a change in title, such officer's functional equivalent) may act individually to delegate authority to administrative personnel to make benefit payments to Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employees in accordance with Plan provisions. 
    
    Section 10.      No Contract of Employment.    The Plan is an expression of the Company's present policy with respect to Leadership Level One or Two Employees; it is not a part of any contract of employment.  No Leadership Level One or Two Employee, Eligible Surviving Spouse, or any other person shall have any legal or other right to any benefit under this Plan. 
    
    Section 11.      Executive Separation Allowances Not Funded.    The Company's obligations under this Plan shall not be funded and Executive Separation Allowance benefits under this Plan shall be payable only out of the general funds of the Company. 

Section 12.      Visteon Corporation  .  The following shall be applicable to employees of Ford who were transferred to Visteon Corporation on April 1, 2000 ("U.S. Visteon Employees") and who ceased active participation in the Plan as of June 30, 2000 after Visteon Corporation was spun-off from Ford, June 28, 2000. 
    
    (a)        Group I and Group II Employees. 
    
    For purposes of this paragraph, a "Group I Employee" shall mean a U.S. Visteon Employee who as of July 1, 2000 was eligible for immediate normal or regular early retirement under the provisions of the GRP as in effect on July 1, 2000.  A "Group II Employee" shall mean a U.S. Visteon Employee who (i) was not a Group I Employee; (ii) had as of July 1, 2000 a combination of age and continuous service that equals or exceeds sixty (60) points (partial months disregarded); and (iii) could become eligible for normal or regular early retirement under the provisions of the GRP as in effect on July 1, 2000 within the period after July 1, 2000 equal to the employee's Ford service as of July 1, 2000.  A Group I or Group II Employee shall retain eligibility to receive an Executive Separation Allowance and shall receive such benefits as are applicable under the terms of the Plan in effect on the retirement date, based on meeting the minimum Leadership Level required for eligibility for such benefits as of July 1, 2000, service as of July 1, 2000, and the Base Monthly Salary as of the retirement date. 
    
  (b)        Group III Employees. 
    
    For purposes of this paragraph, a "Group III Employee" shall mean a U.S. Visteon Employee who participated in the GRP prior to July 1, 2000 other than a Group I or Group II Employee.  The Plan shall have no liability for any Executive Separation Allowance payable to Group III Employees who were otherwise eligible hereunder with respect to service prior to July 1, 2000 on or after July 1, 2000.    
    
  Section 13.      Code Section 409A. 
    
  (a)        The provisions of Code Section 409A are incorporated into the Plan by reference to the extent necessary for any benefit provided under the Plan that is subject to Code Section 409A to comply with such requirements and, except as otherwise expressly determined by the Company, the Plan shall be administered in accordance with Code Section 409A as if the requirements of Code Section 409A were set forth herein.  The Company reserves the right to take such action, on a uniform basis, as the Company deems necessary or desirable to ensure compliance with Code Section 409A, and applicable additional regulatory guidance thereunder, or to achieve the goals of the Plan without having adverse tax consequences under this Plan for any employee or beneficiary.  Unless determined otherwise by the Company, any such action shall be taken in a manner that will enable any benefit provided under the Plan that is intended to be exempt from Code Section 409A to continue to be so exempt, or to enable any benefit provided under the Plan that is intended to comply with Code Section 409A to continue to so comply. 
       
  (b)        In no event shall any transfer of liabilities to or from this Plan result in an impermissible acceleration or deferral of any Executive Separation Allowance under Code Section 409A. In the event such a transfer would cause an impermissible acceleration or deferral under Code Section 409A, such transfer shall not occur. 
    
  (c)        In the event an Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee is reemployed following a Separation From Service, distribution of any Executive Separation Allowance shall not cease upon such Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee's reemployment. 
    
  (d)        After receipt of Plan benefits, the obligations of the Company with respect to such benefits shall be satisfied and no Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee, or such Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee's Eligible Surviving Spouse, shall have any further claims against the Plan or the Company with respect to Plan benefits. 

Section 14. Claim for Benefits 
    
  Denial of a Claim.    A claim for benefits under the plan shall be submitted in writing to the plan administrator.  If a claim for benefits or participation is denied in whole or in part by the plan administrator, the Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee will receive written notification within a reasonable period from the date the claim for benefits or participation is received.  Such notice shall be deemed given upon mailing, full postage prepaid in the United States mail or on the date sent electronically to the Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee.  If the plan administrator determines that an extensive period of time for processing is required, written notice shall be furnished to the Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee as soon as practical. 
    
  Review of Denial of the Claim.    In the event that the plan administrator denies a claim for benefits or participation, the Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee may request a review by filing a written appeal to the Group Vice President -Human Resources and Corporate Services (or, in the event of a change in title, such officer's functional equivalent), or such officer's designee, within sixty (60) days of receipt of the written notification of denial.  The appeal will be considered, and a decision shall be rendered as soon as practical.  In the event a time extension is needed to consider the appeal and render the decision, written notice shall be provided to the Eligible Leadership One or Two Employee notifying them of such time extension. 
    
  Decision on Appeal.    The decision on review of the appeal shall be in writing.  Such notice shall be deemed given upon mailing, full postage prepaid in the United States mail or on the date sent electronically to the Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee.  Decisions on the appeal are final and conclusive and are only subject to the arbitrary and capricious standard of judicial review. 
    
  Limitations Period.    No legal action for benefits under the plan may be brought against the plan until after the claims and appeal procedures have been exhausted.  Legal actions under the plan for benefits must be brought no later than two (2) years after the claim arises.  No other action may be brought against the plan more than six (6) months after the claim arises. 

Appendix A 
  Special Executive Separation Allowances 
    
  Named Executive Officers 

Section 1.  Special Executive Separation Allowances Based on Notional Service and Salary.    Special Executive Separation Allowances will be provided to each Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee listed in Subsection 1.D below for the period of time during which such Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee did not receive a cash base salary from the Company by determining the Executive Separation Allowance that otherwise would have been provided to such Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee for such period using notional service and salary as follows; provided that, in no event shall an Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee receive both an Executive Separation Allowance and a special Executive Separation Allowance for the same period of service: 
    
  A.  Contributory Service.    Contributory Service, if any, for each such Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee for any period of time during which the Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee did not receive a cash base salary shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, based on the contributory service the Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee would have accrued had the Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee participated in the Ford Motor Company General Retirement Plan on a contributory basis during such period of time. 
    
  B.  Service.    Service, if any, for each such Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee for any period of time during which the Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee did not receive a cash base salary shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, based on the service the Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee would have accrued had the Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee participated in, and accrued credited service under, the Ford Motor Company General Retirement Plan during such period of time. 
    
  C.  Base Monthly Salary.    Base Monthly Salary for each such Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, based on a notional base monthly salary for the period of time during which the Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employee did not receive a cash base salary. 
    
  D.  Affected Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employees.    The following Eligible Leadership Level One or Two Employees' special Executive Separation Allowances shall be determined in accordance with this Section: 
    
  William Clay Ford, Jr. 

</EX-10.A>

<EX-10.C>
 3
 f12312012exhibit10-c.htm
 EXHIBIT

F 12.31.2012 Exhibit 10-C 

Exhibit 10-C 
     FORD MOTOR COMPANY 
  BENEFIT EQUALIZATION PLAN 
  (Amended and Restated Effective as of January 1, 2012) 
    
  Section 1.  Purpose. 
    
  The purpose of this Plan is to preserve certain benefits of employees under the Company's tax qualified General Retirement Plan, Ford Retirement Plan and Savings and Stock Investment Plan for Salaried Employees by providing appropriate Equalization Benefits under this Plan in place of benefits which cannot be provided under such tax qualified plans because of limitations imposed by Section 415 and Section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, as well as base salary amounts deferred to the Ford Motor Company Deferred Compensation Plan. 
    
  Section 2.  Definitions. 
    
  As used in this Plan, the following terms shall have the following meanings, respectively: 
    
  2.01    "BEP Salary Reductions"   shall mean that portion of salary at the basic salary rate which would have been credited to an Eligible Employee's account before January 1, 1985 pursuant to a salary reduction agreement under the SSIP but which, by reason of Code Section 415, exceeds salary reduction contributions that can be made by the Company on an Eligible Employee's behalf under the Tax-Efficient Savings Program of the SSIP. 
    
  2.02    "Code"   shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 
    
  2.03    "Committee"   shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Ford Motor Company. 
    
  2.04    "Company"   shall mean Ford Motor Company and such of the subsidiaries of Ford Motor Company as, with the consent of Ford Motor Company, shall have adopted this Plan. 
    
  2.05    "DCP"   shall mean the Ford Motor Company Deferred Compensation Plan. 
    
  2.06    "Designated Third Party Administrator"   shall be the service provider employed by the Company to act as record keeper to maintain Eligible Employee subaccounts and process notional investment elections. 
    
  2.07    "Eligible Employee"   shall mean a salaried employee of the Company whose benefits under the GRP, FRP and/or SSIP are limited as a result of the application of the limitations imposed by Code Sections 415 and/or 401(a)(17) or due to base salary deferrals under the DCP. 
    
  2.08    "Eligible Surviving Spouse"   shall mean an Eligible Employee's spouse, as defined by the Federal Defense of Marriage Act of 1996, to whom the Eligible Employee has been married for at least one year prior to the Eligible Employee's date of death. 
    
  2.09    "Equalization Benefits"   shall mean FRP Equalization Benefits, Periodic GRP Equalization Benefits and/or SSIP Equalization Benefits. 
    
  2.10    "ERISA"   shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. 
    
  2.11    "ESAP"   shall mean the Ford Motor Company Executive Separation Allowance Plan, as amended from time to time. 
    
  2.12    "FERCO SRP"   shall mean the Ford Electronics and Refrigeration Corporation Salaried Retirement Plan. 
    
  2.13    "FRP"   shall mean the Ford Retirement Plan, as amended from time to time. 

2.14    "FRP Equalization Benefit"   shall mean the benefit provided pursuant to Section 3.03. 
    
  2.15    "GRP"   shall mean the Ford Motor Company General Retirement Plan, as amended from time to time. 
    
  2.16    "Limitations"   shall mean the limitations on benefits and/or contributions imposed on qualified plans by Code Sections 415 and 401(a)(17). 
    
  2.17    "Periodic GRP Equalization Benefit"   shall mean a monthly benefit provided pursuant to Section 3.01. 
    
  2.18    "Plan"   shall mean this Ford Motor Company Benefit Equalization Plan, as amended from time to time. 
    
  2.19    "Plan Administrator"   shall mean such person or persons to whom the Committee shall delegate authority to administer the Plan. 
    
  2.20    "SSIP"   shall mean the Ford Motor Company Savings and Stock Investment Plan for Salaried Eligible Employees, as amended from time to time. 
    
  2.21    "SSIP Equalization Benefit"   shall mean the benefit provided pursuant to Section 3.02. 
    
  2.22    "Separation From Service  " shall be determined to have occurred on the date on which an Eligible Employee incurs a  separation from service  within the meaning of Code Section 409A. 
    
  2.23    "Specified Employee"   shall mean an Eligible Employee who is a "Key Employee" as defined in Code Section 416(i)(1)(A)(i), (ii) or (iii), applied in accordance with the regulations thereunder and disregarding Subsection 416(i)(5).  A Specified Employee shall be identified as of December 31st of each calendar year and such identification shall apply to any Specified Employee who shall incur a Separation From Service in the 12-month period commencing April 1st of the immediately succeeding calendar year.  An Eligible Employee who is determined to be a Specified Employee shall remain a Specified Employee throughout such 12-month period regardless of whether the Eligible Employee meets the definition of "Specified Employee" on the date the Eligible Employee incurs a Separation From Service.  This provision is effective for Specified Employees who incur a Separation From Service on or after January 1, 2005.  For purposes of determining Specified Employees, the definition of compensation under Treasury Regulation Section 1.415(c)-2(d)(3) shall be used, applied without the use of any of the special timing rules provided in Treasury Regulation Section 1.415(c)-2(e) or the special rule in Treasury Regulation Section 1.415(c)-2(g)(5)(i), but applied with the use of the special rule in Treasury Regulation Section 1.415(c)-2(g)(5)(ii). 
    
  2.24    "Subsidiary"   shall mean, as applied with respect to any person or legal entity specified, (i) a person or legal entity with a majority of the voting stock of which is owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the person or legal entity specified or (ii) any other type of business organization in which the person or legal entity specified owns or controls, directly or indirectly, a majority interest. 
    
  2.25    "Totally and Permanently Disabled"   shall mean an Eligible Employee who: 
    
           (a) 
    is not engaged in regular employment or occupation for remuneration or profit (including employment with the Company and/or its Subsidiaries, but excluding employment or occupation which the Plan Administrator determines to be for purposes of rehabilitation); 
       
           (b) 
    is determined by the Plan Administrator, on the basis of medical evidence, to be totally disabled by bodily injury or disease so as to be prevented thereby from engaging in any regular occupation with the Company, where such disability has been continuous for at least 5 months, and where the Plan Administrator determines such disability will be permanent and continuous during the remainder of such Eligible Employee's life; and 
       
           (c) 
    has earned at least 10 years of credited service under the GRP. 

Section 3.  Equalization of Benefits. 
    
    3.01       GRP Equalization Benefits. 
    
  (a)    A Periodic GRP Equalization Benefit shall be provided to any Eligible Employee (i) whose GRP benefit is subject to the Limitations or delayed pursuant to provisions set forth in (b)(iii),  and (ii) who, at the time of Separation From Service, has earned at least 5 years of credited service under the GRP (or, if age 65 or older, has earned at least 1 year of credited service under the GRP). 
    
  (b)     The Periodic GRP Equalization Benefit: 
    
           (i) 
    Shall be equal in amount to the difference between the GRP benefit the Eligible Employee would receive if the Eligible Employee commenced monthly GRP benefits upon Separation From Service and the corresponding monthly benefit that would be payable under the GRP without regard to the Limitations.  For purposes of determining the amount of such Periodic GRP Equalization Benefit, the Eligible Employee shall be treated as if such Eligible Employee elected to receive a GRP benefit in the form of the qualified joint and survivor annuity benefit under the GRP if married, or the single life annuity form of benefit under the GRP if unmarried (including, a divorced or widowed Eligible Employee).  The amount of any Periodic GRP Equalization Benefit payable to an Eligible Employee whose benefit under the ESAP is not offset or reduced by the amount of any GRP benefit payable to such Eligible Employee prior to age 65 shall be increased upon the Eligible Employee's attainment of age 65 to reflect an unreduced normal retirement benefit under the GRP.  In determining the amount of the Periodic GRP Equalization Benefit, the Eligible Employee's salary shall be the Eligible Employee's salary (as that term is defined in the GRP) plus BEP Salary Reductions for periods before January 1, 1985 which are credited under this Plan pursuant to Section 3.02(a)(ii)(C) below, but the Eligible Employee shall not make contributions hereunder based on such BEP Salary Reductions. 
       
           (ii) 
    Shall be paid monthly by the Company to an Eligible Employee who has had a Separation From Service and, for distributions commencing on and after January 1, 2005, shall be paid commencing on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the first day of the month following the earliest of the following dates: 
       
  (A)    the first date on or after Separation From Service on which such Eligible Employee attains age 55, if the Separation From Service occurs prior to the date on which the Eligible Employee earns 30 years of credited service under the GRP; 
  (B)    the date of Separation From Service, if the Separation From Service occurs on or after the date on which the Eligible Employee earned 30 years of credited service under the GRP; or 
  (C)    the date on which such Eligible Employee is determined to be Totally and Permanently Disabled. 
    
           (iii) 
    Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, if a Specified Employee incurs a Separation From Service, other than as a result of such Specified Employee's death, payment of any Periodic GRP Equalization Benefit to such Specified Employee shall commence on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the first day of the seventh month following Separation From Service.  Any Periodic GRP Equalization Benefit payments to which a Specified Employee otherwise would have been entitled during the first six months following such Specified Employee's Separation From Service shall be accumulated and paid in a lump sum payment on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the first day of the seventh month following such Separation From Service.  The payment delayed under this Section shall not bear interest. 
       
  (c)    Upon an Eligible Employee's death, the Eligible Employee's Eligible Surviving Spouse will receive a monthly benefit under the Plan in an amount equal to the difference between any monthly  

GRP benefit the Eligible Surviving Spouse receives and the corresponding monthly benefit that would be payable to the Eligible Surviving Spouse under the GRP without regard to the Limitations.  If GRP benefits were paid to an Eligible Employee or Eligible Surviving Spouse in a lump sum distribution, the amount of monthly benefit payable to the Eligible Surviving Spouse shall be determined based on the monthly annuity payment the Eligible Surviving Spouse would have received had the lump sum distribution not occurred.  For purposes of determining the amount of such monthly benefit payable to the Eligible Surviving Spouse, the Eligible Employee shall be treated as if such Eligible Employee elected to receive a GRP benefit in the form of the qualified joint and survivor annuity benefit under the GRP.  Payment of any such Eligible Surviving Spouse benefit shall commence as soon as reasonably practicable following the date of the Eligible Employee's death.  Any such Eligible Surviving Spouse benefit shall cease upon the death of the Eligible Surviving Spouse. 
    
  (d)    GRP Equalization Benefits commencing on or before December 31, 2004, shall be made in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plan in effect at the time of such commencement.  GRP Equalization Benefits commencing on and after January 1, 2005 shall be made as periodic payments pursuant to Section 3.01(b). 
    
  (e)    If the actuarially equivalent lump sum value of an Eligible Employee's GRP Equalization Benefit, determined in accordance with this Section on or after January 1, 2009, does not exceed $3,500, such GRP Equalization Benefit shall be distributed in accordance with this Section.  GRP Equalization Benefits shall not be distributed pursuant to this Section to any Eligible Employee who is eligible for benefits under any of the Company's other defined benefit non-qualified deferred compensation arrangements.  The actuarially equivalent lump-sum value of any GRP Equalization Benefit distributed pursuant to this Section shall be paid on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the first day of the month following the date on which such GRP Equalization Benefit otherwise would have commenced pursuant to Section 3.01.  For purposes of this Section, actuarially equivalent lump-sum values shall be calculated by applying the rate of interest as prescribed under Code Section 417(e)(3)(C) for the third month prior to the first day of the calendar year in which such determination is made and the mortality table as prescribed under Code Section 417(e)(3)(B). 
    
    3.02  Savings and Stock Investment Plan Equalization Benefits. 
    
    (a)        Pre-1985 Subaccount. 
    
  The provisions of this Subsection 3.02(a) shall apply in determining that part of an Eligible Employee's SSIP Equalization Benefit subaccount based on periods of service until December 31, 1984. 
    
    (i)        For an Eligible Employee who made the election regarding payroll deductions provided in this Subsection, or who elected to have credited under this Plan BEP Salary Reductions, a SSIP Equalization Benefit shall be provided with respect to any class or classes of the SSIP before January 1, 1985 with respect to which Company or Eligible Employee contributions were subject to the Limitations. 
    
    (ii)        If at any time during a plan year ending before January 1, 1985 it appeared that contributions by or on behalf of an Eligible Employee (including any related Company matching contributions) to the SSIP would be subject to the Limitations, such Eligible Employee may have elected to have the Company retain in its general funds and have credited for purposes of computing the Eligible Employee's subaccount of the SSIP Equalization Benefit under this Subsection 3.02(a): 
    
                 (A)        by payroll deduction authorization under this Plan that portion of the amount the Eligible Employee had elected to contribute as employee regular savings contributions to the SSIP for such pay period (by a payroll deduction authorization in effect for such pay period under the SSIP) which, when added to all other actual and projected Annual Additions as defined under the SSIP during such plan year, exceeded the Limitations. 

(B)        that portion of regular savings and related earnings which have been returned to the Eligible Employee pursuant to the SSIP, and  
    
                 (C)         the Eligible Employee's BEP Salary Reductions. 
    
               (iii)       There has been established for each Eligible Employee a subaccount for periods of participation under this Subsection 3.02(a) under the SSIP Equalization Benefit Account.  This subaccount shall be equal to the amounts retained by the Company pursuant to Subsection 3.02(a)(ii), adjusted on the basis of investment performance and the Eligible Employee's election as to investment of funds under the SSIP and transfer of the value of employee and Company contributions under the SSIP as though contributions and credits to the Eligible Employee's account hereunder had been so invested, less any withdrawals pursuant to Subsection 3.02(a)(iv); provided, however, that an election by a Company officer of investment in Company common stock shall not apply under this Plan with respect to contributions pursuant to Subsection 3.02(a)(ii) (other than related Company matching contributions) which were made or credited hereunder by or on behalf of such Company officer; and the officer will be required to make any other investment election permitted under the SSIP with respect to such amounts. 
    
    (iv)        An Eligible Employee may not withdraw any amounts in excess of the Eligible Employee's regular savings contributions under this Plan and may not borrow against the subaccount of the Eligible Employee's SSIP Equalization Benefit. 
    
    (v)        The SSIP Equalization Benefit under this Subsection 3.02(a) shall be equal to the amount at the time of distribution credited to the Eligible Employee's subaccount of the SSIP Benefit Equalization Account as determined under Subsection 3.02(a)(iii). 
    
    (b)    Post-1984 Subaccount. 
    
  The provisions of this Subsection 3.02(b) shall apply in determining an Eligible Employee's SSIP Equalization Benefit subaccount based on periods of service beginning on or after January 1, 1985. 
    
           (i) 
    If at any time during a plan year beginning on or after January 1, 1985 contributions by or on behalf of an Eligible Employee and related Company matching contributions to the SSIP are subject to the Limitations, there shall be credited for purposes of computing the Eligible Employee's SSIP Equalization Benefit under this Subsection 3.02(b) an amount equal to the Company matching contributions which would have been made under the SSIP based upon the Eligible Employee's SSIP elections, except that such Company matching contributions cannot be made because of the Limitations.  For plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2005, if the amount credited as an Eligible Employee's SSIP Equalization Benefit for a plan year increases or decreases as a result of a change in the Eligible Employee's SSIP deferral elections for such plan year, such increase or decrease in the SSIP Equalization Benefit shall be adjusted to the extent necessary to prevent such increase or decrease, when aggregated with all SSIP Equalization Benefits credited for such plan year, from exceeding the amount of Company matching contributions that would have been contributed to the SSIP had the Limitations not applied. 
       
           (ii) 
    If at any time during a plan year an Eligible Employee elects to defer base salary amounts to the DCP, there shall be credited for purposes of computing the Eligible Employee's SSIP Equalization Benefit under this Subsection 3.02(b) an amount equal to the Company matching contributions that would have been contributed to the SSIP had the Eligible Employee not made base salary deferrals to the DCP. 
       
           (iii) 
    For periods on or after October 1, 1995 until May 31, 2007, any Company matching contributions credited for purposes of computing an Eligible Employee's SSIP Equalization Benefit shall be credited in the form of units in the Ford Stock Fund rather than shares of Ford common stock.  For periods on or after June 1, 2007, any Company matching contributions so credited shall be credited in the form of cash. 

(iv) 
    There shall be established for each Eligible Employee a subaccount for periods of participation under this Subsection 3.02(b) under the SSIP Equalization Benefit Account.  For periods prior to May 1, 1996, this subaccount shall be equal to the amounts credited by the Company pursuant to Subsection 3.02(b)(i), adjusted on the basis of investment performance and any election by the Eligible Employee to transfer the value of matured Company matching contributions under the SSIP, as though credits to the Eligible Employee's account hereunder had been so invested.  For periods May 1, 1996 and after, this subaccount shall be equal to the amounts credited by the Company pursuant to Subsection 3.02(b)(i), and adjusted on the basis of investment performance attributable to any separate investment election made by an Eligible Employee (other than a Company officer) on or after May 1, 1996.  The investment options for managing the subaccount shall be identical to the investment options specified in the SSIP, although they will have separate fund codes.  Any BEP credits earned will be based on the investment options available under the SSIP.  The Designated Third Party Administrator will maintain the accounts and process the elections and otherwise be the record keeper with respect to this subaccount.  Company officers with this subaccount are not eligible to reallocate or transfer credits under the subaccount from the Ford Stock Fund to other investment options, or from other investment options to the Ford Stock Fund. 
       
           (v) 
    An Eligible Employee may not withdraw any amounts credited under this Subsection 3.02(b) and may not borrow against this subaccount of the Eligible Employee's SSIP Equalization Benefit.  This subaccount will not accept rollovers from other plans. 
       
           (vi) 
    The SSIP Equalization Benefit under this Subsection 3.02(b) shall be equal to the amount at the time of distribution credited to the Eligible Employee's subaccount of the SSIP Benefit Equalization Account as determined under Subsection 3.02(b)(ii). 
       
           (vii) 
    In the event of death of an Eligible Employee with an SSIP Benefit Equalization subaccount, the balance of the subaccount shall be payable to the same beneficiary as the Eligible Employee has designated under the SSIP, unless the Eligible Employee makes a separate designation under this Plan pursuant to the rules established by the Committee. 
       
    (c)        Payment of SSIP Equalization Benefit. 
    
  The SSIP Equalization Benefit: 
    
           (i) 
    Shall be paid in a lump sum cash payment by the Company to the Eligible Employee or, if the Eligible Employee is deceased, to the Eligible Employee's beneficiary under the SSIP, on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the earlier of the Eligible Employee's Separation From Service or death.  In the event of an Eligible Employee's death, the balance of the Eligible Employee's SSIP Equalization Benefit book entry account, if any, shall be payable to the same beneficiary as the Eligible Employee's beneficiary under the SSIP, unless the Eligible Employee makes a separate designation under this Plan pursuant to the rules established by the Committee. 
       
           (ii) 
    Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, if a Specified Employee incurs a Separation From Service, other than as a result of death, payment of the amount credited to such Specified Employee's SSIP Equalization Benefit subaccount, accrued or vested after December 31, 2004, shall be paid on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the first day of the seventh month following such Separation From Service.  A Specified Employee who is subject to a six-month distribution delay pursuant to this Subsection 3.02(c)(ii) will be permitted to continue to manage the investment elections applicable to such Specified Employee's subaccount during the six-month distribution delay. 
       
           (iii) 
    The SSIP Equalization Benefit under this Subsection 3.02(c) shall be equal to the amount credited to the Eligible Employee's book entry account at the time of distribution, as determined under Subsection 3.03(a) or (b), as applicable.   
          
           . 

Ford Retirement Plan (FRP) Equalization Benefits 
    
  (a)    FRP Subaccount.    
     
  The provisions of this Subsection 3.03(a) shall apply in determining an Eligible Employee's FRP Equalization Benefit for periods of service beginning on or after January 1, 2004. 
    
           (i) 
    The Company shall establish a book entry account for each Eligible Employee for purposes of computing the Eligible Employee's FRP Equalization Benefit under this Section 3.03.  The Eligible Employee's FRP Equalization Benefit under this Subsection 3.03(a) shall be equal to the amount(s) credited to the book entry account at the time of distribution. 
       
           (ii) 
    If, at any time during a plan year beginning on or after January 1, 2004, contributions made to the FRP on behalf of an Eligible Employee are limited due to the application of the Limitations, there shall be credited to the book entry account established for the Eligible Employee pursuant to this Subsection 3.03(a) an amount equal to the amount of Company contributions that would have been made under the FRP on behalf of the Eligible Employee but for the application of the Limitations. 
       
           (iii) 
    Each Eligible Employee's book entry account also will be credited or debited with amounts determined based on investment options selected by the Eligible Employee under this Subsection 3.03(a)(iii).  The investment options available for selection under this Subsection 3.03(a)(iii) shall be identical to the investment options available under the FRP, but will have separate fund codes.  Each Eligible Employee shall select which investment options are to be used in determining the Eligible Employee's FRP Equalization Benefit.  In the absence of an investment selection by an Eligible Employee, the Eligible Employee's book entry account will be credited or debited with amounts based on the appropriate target date - retirement fund offered under the FRP as identified by the Company for the Eligible Employee.  The Designated Third Party Administrator will maintain a record of each book entry account, process investment selections, and otherwise be the record keeper of the book entry accounts.  Investment options selected under this Section 3.03 shall be used solely for purposes of determining an Eligible Employee's FRP Equalization Benefit.  An Eligible Employee's FRP Equalization Benefit will be based on the value of the Eligible Employee's book entry account as if the amounts in the book entry account had been invested in actual investments selected by the Eligible Employee; however, no such investments shall be made on behalf of the Eligible Employee.  Eligible Employees shall not have voting rights or any other ownership rights with respect to any investment options selected as the measuring mechanism for book entry accounts established under this Section 3.03.   
       
           (iv) 
    Eligible Employees may not withdraw or borrow against amounts credited to any book account under this Subsection 3.03(a).  Book entry accounts will not accept rollovers from other plans. 
       
  (b)    Payment of FRP Equalization Benefit.  
  The FRP Equalization Benefit: 
    
           (i) 
    Shall be paid in a lump sum cash payment by the Company to the Eligible Employee or, if the Eligible Employee is deceased, to the Eligible Employee's beneficiary under the FRP, on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the earlier of the Eligible Employee's Separation From Service or death.  In the event of an Eligible Employee's death, the balance of the Eligible Employee's FRP Equalization Benefit book entry account, if any, shall be payable to the same beneficiary as the Eligible Employee designated under the FRP, unless the Eligible Employee makes a separate designation under this Plan pursuant to the rules established by the Committee. 
       
           (ii) 
    Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, if a Specified Employee incurs a Separation From Service, other than as a result of death, payment of any amount  

credited to the Specified Employee's FRP Equalization Benefit book entry account, accrued or vested after December 31, 2004, shall be made on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the first day of the seventh month following Separation From Service.  A Specified Employee who is subject to a six-month distribution delay pursuant to this Subsection 3.02(c)(ii) will be permitted to continue to manage the investment elections applicable to such Specified Employee's book entry account during the six-month distribution delay. 
    
           (iii) 
    The FRP Equalization Benefit under this Subsection 3.03(b) shall be equal to the amount credited to the Eligible Employee's book entry account at the time of distribution, as determined under Subsection 3.03(a). 
       
  Section 4.  Equalization Benefits Not Funded. 
    
  The Company's obligations under this Plan shall not be funded and Equalization Benefits under this Plan shall be payable only out of the general funds of the Company. 
    
  Section 5.  No Contract of Employment. 
    
  The Plan is an expression of the Company's present policy with respect to Eligible Employees; it is not a part of any contract of employment.  No Eligible Employee, Eligible Surviving Spouse, or any other person shall have any legal or other right to any benefit under this Plan. 
    
  Section 6.  Amendment, Termination, Etc. 
    
  The Board of Directors of the Company shall have the right at any time to amend, modify, discontinue or terminate this Plan in whole or in part; provided, however, that no such action shall deprive any person of an Equalization Benefit under this Plan if payment of such Equalization Benefit shall have commenced prior to the date of such action by the Board of Directors; provided, further, however, that no distribution of benefits shall occur upon termination of this Plan unless applicable requirements of Code Section 409A have been met.  Notwithstanding anything contained in this Section to the contrary, Equalization Benefits payable under this Plan remain subject to the claims of the Company's general creditors at all times. 
    
  Section 7.  Administration and Interpretation of the Plan. 
    
  Full authority to administer and interpret this Plan shall be vested in the Committee.  The Committee is authorized from time to time to establish such rules and regulations as it may deem appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan, and to make such determinations under, and such interpretations of, and to take such steps in connection with, the Plan as it may deem necessary or advisable.  Each determination, interpretation, or other action by the Committee shall be in its sole discretion and shall be final, binding and conclusive for all purposes and upon all persons.  The Committee may act, in its sole discretion, to delegate administrative and interpretative     authority under this Section to the Plan Administrator. 
    
  In the event that an Article, Section or paragraph of the Code, Treasury Regulations, GRP, FRP or SSIP concerning the Limitations is renumbered, such renumbered Article, Section or paragraph shall apply to applicable references herein. 
    
  Section 8.  Local Payment Authorities 
  The Vice President and Treasurer and the Assistant Treasurer (or, in the event of a change in title, such officer's functional equivalent) may act individually to delegate authority to administrative personnel to make benefit payments to employees in accordance with plan provisions. 
    
  Section 9. Deductions 
    
  The Company may deduct from any payment of Equalization Benefits to an Eligible Employee or Eligible Surviving Spouse any and all amounts owed to it by such Eligible Employee or Eligible Surviving Spouse for any reason, and all taxes required by law or government regulation to be deducted or withheld. 

Section 10.  Visteon Corporation. 
    
  The following shall be applicable to employees of Ford who were transferred to Visteon Corporation on April 1, 2000 ("U.S. Visteon Employees") and who ceased active participation in the Plan as of June 30, 2000 after Visteon Corporation was spun-off from Ford, June 28, 2000. 
    
    (a)        Group I and Group II Employees 
    
  For purposes of this paragraph, a "Group I Employee" shall mean a U.S. Visteon Employee who as of July 1, 2000 was eligible for immediate normal or regular early retirement under the provisions of the GRP as in effect on July 1, 2000.  A "Group II Employee" shall mean a U.S. Visteon Employee who (i) was not a Group I Employee; (ii) had as of July 1, 2000 a combination of age and continuous service that equals or exceeds sixty (60) points (partial months disregarded); and (iii) could become eligible for normal or regular early retirement under the provisions of the GRP as in effect on July 1, 2000 within the period after July 1, 2000 equal to the employee's Ford service as of July 1, 2000. A Group I or Group II Employee shall retain eligibility to receive a GRP Equalization Benefit and/or a SSIP Equalization Benefit and shall receive such benefits as are applicable under the terms of the Plan in effect on the retirement date, based on meeting eligibility criteria as of July 1, 2000 with respect to GRP or SSIP participation prior to July 1, 2000 and upon incurring a Separation From Service from Visteon, or from the Company for Group I or II Employees who return to Company employment pursuant to the Visteon Salaried Employee Transition Agreement dated as of October 1, 2005 and any subsequent amendments thereto. 
    
    (b)        Group III Employees. 
    
  For purposes of this paragraph, a "Group III Employee" shall mean a U.S. Visteon Employee who participated in the GRP prior to July 1, 2000 other than a Group I or Group II Employees.  The Plan shall have no liability for a GRP Equalization Benefit and/or a SSIP Equalization Benefit payable to Group III Employees who were otherwise eligible hereunder with respect to GRP or SSIP participation prior to July 1, 2000 on or after July 1, 2000.  
    
  Section 11.      Code Section 409A. 
    
    (a)        The provisions of Code Section 409A are incorporated into the Plan by reference to the extent necessary for any benefit provided under the Plan that is subject to Code Section 409A to comply with such requirements and, except as otherwise expressly determined by the Committee, the Plan shall be administered in accordance with Code Section 409A as if the requirements of Code Section 409A were set forth herein.  With respect to Equalization Benefits, the Company reserves the right to take such action, on a uniform basis, as the Company deems necessary or desirable to ensure compliance with Code Section 409A, and applicable additional regulatory guidance thereunder, or to achieve the goals of the Plan without having adverse tax consequences under this Plan for any employee or beneficiary.  Unless determined otherwise by the Committee, any such action shall be taken in a manner that will enable any benefit provided under the Plan that is intended to be exempt from Code Section 409A to continue to be so exempt, or to enable any benefit provided under the Plan that is intended to comply with Code Section 409A to continue to so comply. 
    
    (b)        In no event shall any transfer of liabilities to or from this Plan result in an impermissible acceleration or deferral of Equalization Benefits under Code Section 409A. In the event such a transfer would cause an impermissible acceleration or deferral under Code Section 409A, such transfer shall not occur. 
    
    (c)        In no event will application of any eligibility requirements under this Plan cause an impermissible acceleration or deferral of any Plan benefits under Code Section 409A. 
    
    (d)        In the event an Eligible Employee is reemployed following a Separation From Service, distribution of any Equalization Benefit shall not cease upon such Eligible Employee's reemployment. 

(e)        After receipt of any Equalization Benefits, the obligations of the Company with respect to such Equalization Benefits shall be satisfied and no Eligible Employee, Eligible Surviving Spouse, or other beneficiary shall have any further claims against the Plan or the Company with respect to Equalization Benefits. 
    
  Section 12. Claim for Benefits 
    
  (a)        Denial of a Claim 
    
  A claim for benefits under the Plan shall be submitted in writing to the Plan Administrator.  If a claim for benefits or participation is denied in whole or in part by the Plan Administrator, the employee will receive written notification within a reasonable period from the date the claim for benefits or participation is received.  Such notice shall be deemed given upon mailing, full postage prepaid in the United States mail or on the date sent electronically to the employee.  If the Plan Administrator determines that an extensive period of time for processing is required, written notice shall be furnished to the employee as soon as practical. 
    
  (b)        Review of Denial of the Claim to the Committee 
    
  In the event that the Plan Administrator denies a claim for benefits or participation, the employee may request a review by filing a written appeal to the Committee within sixty (60) days of receipt of the written notification of denial.  The appeal will be considered at the Committee's next scheduled meeting.  Under special circumstances, an extension of time for processing may be required in which case a decision shall be rendered as soon as practical.  In the event such an extension is needed, written notice shall be provided to the employee. 
    
  (c)        Decision of the Committee 
    
  The decision on review of the appeal shall be in writing.  Such notice shall be deemed given upon mailing, full postage prepaid in the United States mail or on the date sent electronically to the employee.  Decisions of the Committee are final and conclusive and are only subject to the arbitrary and capricious standard of judicial review. 
    
  (d)        Limitations Period 
    
  No legal action for benefits under the Plan may be brought against the Plan until after the claims and appeal procedures have been exhausted.  Legal actions under the Plan for benefits must be brought no later than two (2) years after the claim arises.  No other action may be brought against the Plan more than six (6) months after the claim arises. 
    
  Section 13. Special Equalization Benefits. 
    
  In addition to any other Equalization Benefits provided under this Plan, the Company may, in its sole discretion, provide special Equalization Benefits to certain Eligible Employees.  Special Equalization Benefits provided to Eligible Employees whose compensation is subject to the executive compensation disclosure rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 shall be set forth in Appendix A.  Special Equalization Benefits provided to Eligible Employees who are not subject to such disclosure rules shall be set forth in a separate confidential schedule to the Plan that is administered by the HR Director-Executive Personnel Office.  Any special Equalization Benefit provided pursuant to this Section shall be paid in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Plan, including without limitation Subsections 3.01(b)(ii), (b)(iii) and (c). 
    
  Section 14. FERCO Equalization Benefits. 
    
  Effective as of December 31, 1999, former salaried employees of the Company, excluding any former salaried employees of the Company who transferred to Visteon Corporation as part of its spin-off from the Company in June 2000, who participated in the FERCO Salaried Retirement Plan ("SRP") and whose benefits under the FERCO SRP were limited as a result of the application of the Limitations shall be eligible to receive FERCO Equalization Benefits pursuant to the terms of Appendix B. 

Appendix A 
  Special Equalization Benefits 
    
  Named Executive Officers 
    
  Section 1.  Special Periodic GRP Equalization Benefits. 
    
  Effective as of November 1, 2001, the Eligible Employees listed below shall receive a special Periodic GRP Equalization Benefit in an amount equal to the monthly benefit the Eligible Employee would have received under the GRP, without regard to the Limitations, had the Eligible Employee participated in the GRP on a contributory basis throughout all years of service with the Company during which such Eligible Employee did not receive a cash base salary.  The special Periodic GRP Equalization Benefit shall be determined based on a notional salary as determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, for the period during which such Eligible Employee did not receive a cash base salary.  Upon the death of any such Eligible Employee, such Eligible Employee's Eligible Surviving Spouse will receive the special Periodic GRP Equalization Benefit provided by this Section commencing as soon as reasonably practicable following the date of the Eligible Employee's death and continuing until such Eligible Surviving Spouse's death. 

William Clay Ford, Jr. 

Appendix B 
  FERCO Equalization Benefits 

Except as otherwise provided in this Appendix, all terms and provisions of the Ford Motor Company Benefit Equalization Plan shall apply to any FERCO Equalization Benefit provided pursuant to this Appendix. 
    
  Section 1.  Definitions. 
    
  The terms used in this Appendix shall have the same meaning as those in the Plan, except as follows: 
    
  1.01    "Eligible Employee"   shall mean a former salaried employee of FERCO, excluding any former salaried employee of FERCO who transferred to Visteon Corporation as part of its spin-off from the Company in June 2000, whose benefits under the FERCO SRP were limited as a result of the application of the Limitations. 
  1.02    "FERCO"   shall mean the Ford Electronics and Refrigeration Corporation. 
  1.03    "FERCO Equalization Benefit"   shall mean any of the benefits described in this Appendix. 
  1.04    "PBGC"   shall mean the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. 
    
  Section 2.  FERCO Equalization Benefits. 
    
  A FERCO Equalization Benefit shall be provided as follows to any Eligible Employee whose FERCO SRP benefit was subject to the Limitations: 
    
  2.01  Amount of Benefit.    The amount of any FERCO Equalization Benefit payable pursuant to this Subsection shall be equal in amount to the difference between the FERCO SRP benefit the Eligible Employee would have received if the Eligible Employee commenced FERCO SRP benefits upon Separation From Service and the corresponding benefit that would have been payable under the FERCO SRP without regard to the Limitations.  If FERCO SRP benefits were paid to an Eligible Employee or Eligible Surviving Spouse in a lump sum distribution, the amount of any FERCO Equalization Benefit payable to the Eligible Employee or Eligible Surviving Spouse shall be determined based on the monthly annuity payment the Eligible Employee or Eligible Surviving Spouse would have received had the lump sum distribution not occurred.  For purposes of determining such amount, the Eligible Employee shall be treated as if such Eligible Employee elected to receive a FERCO SRP benefit in the form of the qualified joint and survivor annuity benefit under the FERCO SRP if married, or the single life annuity form of benefit under the FERCO SRP if unmarried (including Eligible Employees who are widowed or divorced).  The amount of any Equalization Benefit payable to an Eligible Employee whose benefit under the ESAP is not offset or reduced by the amount of any FERCO SRP benefit payable to such Eligible Employee prior to age 65 shall be increased upon the Eligible Employee's attainment of age 65 to reflect an unreduced normal retirement benefit under the FERCO SRP.  In determining the amount of the Equalization Benefit, the Eligible Employee's salary shall be the Eligible Employee's salary as defined in the FERCO SRP. 
    
  2.02  Payment of FERCO Benefit.    FERCO Equalization Benefits shall be payable in accordance with Subsections 3.01(b)(ii) and (iii), 3.01(c), and 3.01(d). 

</EX-10.C>

<EX-10.E>
 4
 f12312012exhibit10-e.htm
 EXHIBIT

F 12.31.2012 Exhibit 10-E 

Exhibit 10-E 
    
  SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN 
       
  As applicable to retirements of Eligible Executives on or after January 1, 1992   1   
  Amended and Restated Effective as of January 1, 2013 
    
    Section 1.  Introduction.    On January 1, 1985, the Company established this Plan for the purpose of providing Eligible Executives, hired or rehired prior to January 1, 2004, with a monthly Supplemental Benefit for life in the event of such Eligible Executive's retirement from employment with the Company under certain circumstances.  The Plan also provides for the award of Conditional Annuities and Pension Parity Benefits to selected Eligible Executives under certain circumstances. 
    
    Section 2.  Definitions.    As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the following meanings, respectively: 
    
  2.01      "  Affiliate  " shall mean, as applied with respect to any person or legal entity specified, a person or legal entity that directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls or is controlled by, or is under common control with, the person or legal entity specified. 
    
  2.02    "Annual Incentive Compensation Plan"   shall mean the Annual Incentive Compensation Plan of Ford Motor Company, as it may be amended. 
    
  2.03    "Code"   shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. 
    
  2.04    "Committee"   shall mean the Compensation Committee of Ford Motor Company. 
    
  2.05    "Company"   shall mean Ford Motor Company and such of the subsidiaries of Ford Motor Company as, with the consent of Ford Motor Company, shall have adopted this Plan. 
    
  2.06    "Conditional Annuity" or "Conditional Annuities"   shall mean the benefit(s) payable under this Plan as determined in accordance with Section 4. 
    
  2.07    "Credited Service"   shall mean, without duplication, the years and any fractional year of credited service at retirement, not exceeding one year for any calendar year, of the Eligible Executive under all the Retirement Plans. 
    
  2.08    "Designated Beneficiary"   shall mean the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by an Eligible Executive or Eligible Retired Executive in a writing filed with the Company (subject to such limitations as to the classes and number of beneficiaries and contingent beneficiaries and such other limitations as the Committee may prescribe) to receive, in the event of the death of the Eligible Executive or Eligible Retired Executive, the Death Benefits provided in Section 4.04.  An Eligible Executive or Eligible Retired Executive shall be deemed to have designated as beneficiary or beneficiaries under the Plan the person or persons who receive such Eligible Executive's or Eligible Retired Executive's life insurance proceeds under the Company-paid Basic Life Insurance Plan, unless such Eligible Executive or Eligible Retired Executive shall have assigned such life insurance proceeds, in which event the Death Benefits shall be paid to such assignee; provided, however, that if the Eligible Executive or Eligible Retired Executive shall have filed with the Company a written designation of a different beneficiary or beneficiaries under the Plan, such beneficiary form shall control.  An Eligible Executive or Eligible Retired Executive may from time to time revoke or change any such designation of beneficiary and any designation of beneficiary under the Plan shall be controlling over any testamentary or other disposition; provided, however, that if the Committee shall be in doubt as to the right of any such beneficiary to receive any payment under the Plan, the same may be paid to the legal representatives of the Eligible Executive or Eligible Retired Executive, in which case the Company, the Committee and the members thereof shall not be under any further liability to anyone. 
    
  ____ 
   1     See Appendix A for provisions applicable to retirements of Eligible Executives on or after January 1, 1985 and prior to January 1, 1992 or retirements of Eligible Executives from certain former Company Affiliates. 

2.09    "Disability Retirement"   shall mean an Eligible Executive's retirement from the Company on or after reaching at least 10 years of service and becoming Totally and Permanently Disabled. 
    
  2.10    "Early Retirement"   shall mean an Eligible Executive's retirement from the Company on or after reaching age 55 with at least 10 years of service. 
    
  2.11    "Eligible Executive"   shall mean a person who was hired or rehired prior to January 1, 2004 and who is the Executive Chairman, Chairman, Vice Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Operating Officer, an Executive Vice President, a Group Vice President or a Vice President of the Company (excluding any such person who is an employee of a foreign Affiliate of the Company) or a Company employee in Leadership Level Four or above, or its equivalent. 
    
  2.12    "Eligible Retired Executive"   shall mean: 
    
  (a)  with respect to Supplemental Benefits, an Eligible Executive who 
    
  (i)  retires directly from Company employment with Company approval on Normal Retirement, Disability Retirement, or Early Retirement; 
    
  (ii)  will receive a normal, disability or early retirement benefit under one or more Retirement Plans; 
    
  (iii)  has at least ten years of Credited Service without duplication under all Retirement Plans; and 
    
  (iv)  has at least five continuous years of Eligibility Service immediately preceding retirement (unless the eligibility condition set forth in this subparagraph (iv) is waived by the Chairman of the Board or the President and Chief Executive Officer). 
    
  (b)  with respect to Conditional Annuity awards and Pension Parity Benefits, an Eligible Executive (other than an Eligible Executive in Leadership Levels Four through Two, or such Eligible Executive's equivalent) who retires directly from Company employment with Company approval on Normal Retirement, Disability Retirement, or Early Retirement. 
    
  2.13    "Eligible Surviving Spouse"   shall mean, for purposes of the Pension Parity Surviving Spouse Benefit, a surviving spouse, as defined by the Federal Defense of Marriage Act of 1996, to whom an Eligible Retired Executive has been married at least one year at the date of the Eligible Retired Executive's death. 
    
  2.14    "Eligibility Service"   shall mean Company service while an Eligible Executive. 
    
  2.15    "Final Five Year Average Base Salary"   means the average of the final five year-end Monthly Base Salaries immediately preceding retirement of the Eligible Retired Executive. 
    
  2.16    "Final Three Year Average Base Salary"   means the average of the final three year-end Monthly Base Salaries immediately preceding retirement or death of the Eligible Retired Executive. 
    
  2.17    "General Retirement Plan" or "GRP"   means the Ford Motor Company General Retirement Plan, as it may be amended. 
    
  2.18    "Monthly Base Salary"   of an Eligible Executive means the monthly base salary paid to such person while an Eligible Executive on December 31, prior to giving effect to any salary reduction agreement pursuant to an employee benefit plan, as defined in Section 3(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, (i) to which Code Section 125 or Code Section 402(e)(3) applies or (ii) which provides for the elective deferral of compensation.  It does not include supplemental compensation or any other kind of extra or additional compensation. 
    
  2.19    "Normal Retirement"   shall mean an Eligible Executive's retirement from the Company on or after reaching age 65 with at least 10 years of service. 

2.20    "Pension Parity Benefit"   shall mean benefits payable under this Plan as determined in accordance with Section 5. 
    
  2.21    "Pension Parity Surviving Spouse Benefit"   shall mean benefits payable under this Plan to an Eligible Surviving Spouse as determined in accordance with Section 5.03. 
    
  2.22    "Plan"   means the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan of Ford Motor Company, as amended. 
    
  2.23    "Plan Administrator"   shall mean such person or persons to whom the Committee shall delegate authority to administer the Plan. 
    
  2.24    "Retirement Plans"   shall mean the Ford Motor Company General Retirement Plan or any other retirement pension plan to which the Company contributes. 
    
  2.25    "Separation From Service"   shall be determined to have occurred on the date on which an Eligible Executive incurs a  separation from service  within the meaning of Code Section 409A. 
    
  2.26    "SERP Benefit"   shall mean any Conditional Annuities, Pension Parity Benefits and/or Supplemental Benefits payable under this Plan. 
    
  2.27    "Specified Employee"   shall mean an employee of the Company who is a "Key Employee" as defined in Code Section 416(i)(1)(A)(i), (ii) or (iii), applied in accordance with the regulations thereunder and disregarding Subsection 416(i)(5).  A Specified Employee shall be identified as of December 31st of each calendar year and such identification shall apply to any Specified Employee who shall incur a Separation From Service in the 12-month period commencing April 1st of the immediately succeeding calendar year.  An employee who is determined to be a Specified Employee shall remain a Specified Employee throughout such 12-month period regardless of whether the employee meets the definition of "Specified Employee" on the date the employee incurs a Separation From Service.  This provision is effective for Specified Employees who incur a Separation From Service on or after January 1, 2005.  For purposes of determining Specified Employees, the definition of compensation under Treasury Regulation Section 1.415(c)-2(d)(3) shall be used, applied without the use of any of the special timing rules provided in Treasury Regulation Section 1.415(c)-2(e) or the special rule in Treasury Regulation Section 1.415(c)-2(g)(5)(i), but applied with the use of the special rule in Treasury Regulation Section 1.415(c)-2(g)(5)(ii).    
    
  2.28    "Subsidiary"   shall mean, as applied with respect to any person or legal entity specified, (i) a person or legal entity a majority of the voting stock of which is owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the person or legal entity specified or (ii) any other type of business organization in which the person or legal entity specified owns or controls, directly or indirectly, a majority interest. 
    
  2.29    "Supplemental Benefit"   shall mean benefits payable under this Plan as determined in accordance with Section 3. 
    
  2.30    "Totally and Permanently Disabled"   shall mean an Eligible Executive who: 
    
  (a)  is not engaged in regular employment or occupation for remuneration or profit (including employment with the Company and/or its Subsidiaries, but excluding employment or occupation which the Plan Administrator determines to be for purposes of rehabilitation); 
    
  (b)  is determined by the Plan Administrator, on the basis of medical evidence, to be totally disabled by bodily injury or disease so as to be prevented thereby from engaging in any regular occupation with the Company, where such disability has been continuous for at least 5 months, and where the Plan Administrator determines such disability will be permanent and continuous during the remainder of such Eligible Employee's life; and 
    
  (c)  has earned at least 10 years of Credited Service. 

Section 3.  Supplemental Benefits. 
    
    3.01  Eligibility.    An Eligible Retired Executive shall be eligible to receive a Supplemental Benefit as provided herein. 
    
    3.02  Amount of Supplemental Benefit. 
    
    (a)  Subject to any reductions pursuant to Subsection (b) below and to any limitations and reductions pursuant to other provisions of the Plan, the monthly Supplemental Benefit shall be an amount equal to the Eligible Executive's Final Five Year Average Base Salary multiplied by the Eligible Executive's years of Credited Service at retirement, and further multiplied by the Applicable Percentage based on the Eligible Executive's position or salary grade immediately preceding retirement, as follows: 
    
  For retirements on or after January 1, 1992 but prior to August 1, 1995 
    
    Status at Retirement                 Applicable Percentage 
    Chairman, Vice Chairman, President              .90% 
    Executive Vice President                  .80% 
  Vice President                        .70%       
    Non-Vice Presidents 
      - Salary Grade 21, 20, 19                     .60% 
      - Salary Grade 18, 17, 16                      .40% 
      - Salary Grade 15, 14, 13                      .20% 
    
  For retirements on or after August 1, 1995 but prior to February 1, 2000 
    
    Status at Retirement            Applicable Percentage 
    Vice President Band  
      - Chairman, Vice Chairman, President                .90% 
      - Executive Vice President                      .80% 
      - Group Vice President                          .75% 
      - Vice President                     .70% 
    Non-Vice President 
      - General Executive Band                             .60% 
      - Executive Band                                  .40% 
  - Salary Grade 15, 14, 13                     .20% 
    
  For retirements on or after February 1, 2000 
    
    Status at Retirement                Applicable Percentage 
    Leadership Level One  
      - Executive Chairman, Chairman,  
       Vice Chairman, Chief Executive Officer,  
       President, Chief Operating Officer                      .90% 
      - Executive Vice President                                .80% 
      - Group Vice President                                    .75% 
      - Vice President                                    .70% 
    Leadership Level Two   1                 
      - Standard Benefit                                   .40% 
      - Non-standard Benefit   2                                       .60% 
    Leadership Level Three                                   .20% 
    Leadership Level Four                                      .20% 
      ____ 
   1     General Executive Band  Eligible Executives who, on or after January 1, 2000 were reclassified as Leadership Level Two Employees, shall retain entitlement to the .60% Applicable Percentage regardless of the reclassification.       
   2     For an Eligible Retired Executive who shall retire before age 62 the monthly Supplemental Benefit payable hereunder shall equal the amount calculated in accordance with the immediately preceding Subsection (a) reduced by 5/18 of 1% multiplied by the number of months from the later of the date the Supplemental Benefit commences or age 55 in the case of earlier receipt as a result of a Disability Retirement to the first day of the month after the Eligible Retired Executive would attain age 62. 

(c)  In addition to any other Supplemental Benefits provided under this Plan, the Company may, in its sole discretion, provide special Supplemental Benefits to certain Eligible Executives.  Special Supplemental Benefits provided to Eligible Executives whose compensation is subject to the executive compensation disclosure rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 shall be set forth in Appendix B.  Special Supplemental Benefits provided to Eligible Executives who are not subject to such disclosure rules shall be set forth in a separate confidential schedule to the Plan that is administered by the HR Director-Executive Personnel Office.  Any special Supplemental Benefits provided pursuant to this Section shall be paid in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Plan, including without limitation Section 3.03. 
    
  3.03    Payments.     
    
  (a)    Subject to the earning-out conditions set forth in Section 6, Supplemental Benefits, in the amount determined under Section 3.02, shall be payable out of the Company's general funds monthly beginning: 
  (i)        for distributions that commenced prior to January 1, 2005, on the first day of the month when the Eligible Retired Executive's retirement benefit under any Retirement Plan or under the Company's Executive Separation Allowance Plan begins; 
    
  (ii)        for distributions commencing on or after January 1, 2005, on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the first day of the month following the date on which the Eligible Retired Executive has a Separation From Service or is determined to be Totally and Permanently Disabled. 
    
   (b)        Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan to the contrary, if a Specified Employee incurs a Separation From Service, other than as a result of such Specified Employee's death, payment of any Supplemental Benefit to such Specified Employee shall commence on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the first day of the seventh month following the Separation From Service.  Any Supplemental Benefit payments to which a Specified Employee otherwise would have been entitled during the first six months following such Specified Employee's Separation From Service shall be accumulated and paid in a lump sum payment on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the first day of the seventh month following such Separation From Service.  The payment delayed under this Section shall not bear interest.  
    
  (i)  Payments to an Eligible Retired Executive hereunder shall cease at the end of the month in which the Eligible Retired Executive dies. 
    
    Section 4.  Conditional Annuities. 
    
    4.01  Eligibility.    The Committee may, in its discretion, award to an Eligible Executive (other than an Eligible Executive in Leadership Levels Four through Two or its equivalent) additional retirement income in the form of a Conditional Annuity. 
    
    4.02  Amount of Conditional Annuity. 
    
    (a)  In determining the amount of any Conditional Annuity to be awarded to an Eligible Executive for any year, the Committee shall consider the Company's profit performance and the amount that is awarded to such Eligible Executive for such year under the Annual Incentive Compensation Plan.  Awards shall be made only for years in which the Committee has decided, for reasons other than individual or corporate performance or termination of employment, to make an award to an Eligible Executive under the Annual Incentive Compensation Plan which is less than would have been awarded if the historical relationship to awards to other executives had been followed. 

(b)  The aggregate annual amount payable under the Conditional Annuities awarded to any Eligible Executive shall not exceed an amount equal to the Applicable Percentage of the average of such Eligible Executive's Final Three Year Average Base Salary, determined in accordance with the following table: 
    
                  Applicable Percentage 
    Number of Years for        Chairman,        All Other 
    which a Conditional        Vice Chairman        Eligible 
    Annuity is awarded         and President        Executives 
    
            1                         30%           20% 
            2                         35           25 
            3                    40           30 
            4                    45           35 
            5 or more             50              40 
    
    The percentage shall be reduced pro rata to the extent that service at retirement is less than 30 years. 
    
    4.03  Payments. 
    
    (a)        Subject to the earning-out conditions set forth in Section 6, Conditional Annuities, in the amount determined under Section 4.02, shall be payable to an Eligible Executive out of the Company's general funds monthly beginning: 
    
  (i)        for distributions that commenced prior to January 1, 2005, on the first day of the month when the Eligible Retired Executive's retirement benefit under any Retirement Plan or under the Company's Executive Separation Allowance Plan begins; or 
    
  (ii)        for distributions commencing on or after January 1, 2005, on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the first day of the month following the date on which the Eligible Retired Executive has a Separation From Service or is determined to be Totally and Permanently Disabled. 
    
  (b)        Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan to the contrary, if a Specified Employee incurs a Separation From Service, other than as a result of such Specified Employee's death, payment of any Conditional Annuities to such Specified Employee shall commence on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the first day of the seventh month following the Separation From Service.  Any Conditional Annuity payments to which a Specified Employee otherwise would have been entitled during the first 6 months following such Specified Employee's Separation From Service shall be accumulated and paid in a lump sum payment on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the first day of the seventh month following such Separation From Service.  The payment delayed under this Section shall not bear interest.  
    
  (c)        Except as provided in Section 4.04, payments with respect to an Eligible Retired Executive hereunder shall cease at the end of the month in which such Eligible Retired Executive dies. 
    
  (d)        For an Eligible Executive who retires before age 65, the monthly payment under any Conditional Annuity awarded to such Eligible Executive shall equal the actuarial equivalent (based on factors determined by the Company's independent consulting actuary) of the monthly amount payable for retirement at age 65. 
    
    4.04  Death Benefits. 
    
    (a)        Upon death before retirement but at or after age 55, the Eligible Executive's Designated Beneficiary shall be paid a lump sum equal to 30 times (representing 30 months) the aggregate monthly amount payable under such Eligible Executive's Conditional Annuities if the Eligible Executive had been age 55 at death, increased by one-third of one month for each full month by which such Eligible Executive's age at death shall exceed age 55.  Such lump sum payment shall be paid as soon as reasonably practicable following the date of the Eligible Executive's death. 
    
    (b)        If death occurs within 120 months following retirement, the monthly payments under the Conditional Annuity shall be continued to the Designated Beneficiary for the remaining balance of the 120 month period  

following retirement.  Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if the Designated Beneficiary should die prior to receiving all of the remaining monthly payments, any remaining monthly payments under the Conditional Annuity shall cease. 
    
  Section 5.  Pension Parity Benefits. 
    
  5.01  Eligibility.    For retirements on or after October 1, 1998, an Eligible Retired Executive at Ford Motor Company (U.S.) or Ford Motor Credit Company (U.S.) who held the position of a Vice President or above at Ford Motor Company (U.S.) immediately prior to retirement and who had service with a subsidiary, including an international subsidiary, at any time prior to becoming an employee of Ford Motor Company (U.S.) or Ford Motor Credit Company (U.S.) shall be eligible to receive a Pension Parity Benefit as provided below. 
    
  5.02  Amount of Pension Parity Benefit. 
    
  (a)        The monthly Pension Parity Benefit shall be an amount equal to the difference between (i) and (ii), where (i) is the amount of the monthly retirement benefit which would be payable under the GRP, the Supplemental Benefit and/or Conditional Annuity under this Plan, the Executive Separation Allowance Plan ("ESAP"), the Benefit Equalization Plan ("BEP"), and the Select Retirement Plan ("SRP") if all of the Eligible Retired Executive's years of service under the GRP/ESAP/BEP/SRP and each of the subsidiary's retirement plans were counted as years of contributory service under the GRP/ESAP/BEP/SRP and (ii) is the amount of monthly retirement benefit that is or was payable under the GRP/ESAP/BEP/SRP, under the subsidiary's retirement plans, under this Plan as a Supplemental Benefit or a Conditional Annuity, if applicable, or under any other plan sponsored by a subsidiary which provided pension-type benefits (and, if such benefits were paid (a) in an involuntary lump sum payment as a termination benefit, this Plan shall convert the lump sum payment into an actuarial equivalent annuity (as determined by an independent actuary appointed by Ford Motor Company) payable at age 65 to the Eligible Retired Executive, (b) in a voluntary distribution of a lump sum benefit, the amount of monthly retirement benefit payable under (ii) above shall be the monthly annuity payment the Eligible Retired Executive would have received had the lump sum distribution not occurred, or (c) as was otherwise required pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order for purposes of determining the appropriate offset). 
    
  (b)        For purposes of determining the amount of an Eligible Retired Executive's Pension Parity Benefit, the Eligible Retired Executive shall be treated as if such Eligible Retired Executive elected to receive a GRP benefit in the form of the qualified joint and survivor annuity benefit under the GRP if married, or the single life annuity form of benefit under the GRP if unmarried (including, a divorced or widowed Eligible Retired Executive).  The amount of any Pension Parity Benefit payable to an Eligible Retired Executive whose benefit under the ESAP is not offset or reduced by the amount of any GRP benefit payable to such Eligible Retired Executive prior to age 65 shall be increased upon the Eligible Retired Executive's attainment of age 65 to reflect an unreduced normal retirement benefit under the GRP.   
    
    5.03  Pension Parity Surviving Spouse Benefits. 
    
  (a)        An Eligible Surviving Spouse shall be entitled to receive a monthly Pension Parity Surviving Spouse Benefit upon the death of the Eligible Retired Executive in an amount equal to the difference between (i) and (ii), where (i) is the actuarial equivalent (as determined by an independent actuary appointed by Ford Motor Company) of the amount of the monthly survivor's benefit that would be payable under the GRP, the ESAP, the BEP, and the SRP if all of the Eligible Retired Executive's years of service under the GRP/ESAP/BEP/SRP and each of the subsidiary's retirement plans were counted as years of contributory service under the GRP/ESAP/BEP/SRP and (ii) is the actuarial equivalent (under the actuarial method described in (i) above) of the aggregate amount of the monthly survivor's benefits that are or were payable under (a) the GRP/ESAP/BEP/SRP, (b) Section 4.04 as a death benefit if the Designated Beneficiary were the Eligible Surviving Spouse, (c) the subsidiary's retirement plans, or (d) any other plan sponsored by a subsidiary which provided pension-type survivor benefits (and, if such benefits were paid in a voluntary distribution of a lump sum benefit, the amount of monthly survivor's benefit payable under (ii) above shall be the monthly survivor benefit payment the Eligible Surviving Spouse would have received had the lump sum distribution not occurred).  For purposes of determining the amount of any Pension Parity Surviving Spouse Benefit, the Eligible Retired Executive shall be treated as if such Eligible Retired Executive elected to receive a GRP benefit in the form of the qualified joint and survivor annuity benefit under the GRP.   
    
  (b)        If an Eligible Retired Executive dies prior to reaching age 65, such monthly Pension Parity Surviving Spouse Benefit shall commence on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the first day of the month  

following the month in which the Eligible Retired Executive would have reached age 65.  If an Eligible Retired Executive dies after reaching age 65, such monthly Pension Parity Surviving Spouse Benefit shall commence as soon as reasonably practicable following the date of the Eligible Retired Executive's death.  Monthly Pension Parity Surviving Spouse Benefits payable pursuant to this Section 5.03 shall continue until the Eligible Surviving Spouse dies. 
      
  5.04  Payment.     
    
  (a)        Subject to the earning-out conditions set forth in Section 6, the Pension Parity Benefit, in the amount determined under Section 5.02, shall be payable to an Eligible Retired Executive out of the Company's general funds monthly beginning: 
    
  (i)        for distributions that commenced prior to January 1, 2005, on the first day of the month when the Eligible Retired Executive's retirement benefit under any Retirement Plan commences; or 
    
  (ii)        for distributions commencing on or after January 1, 2005, on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the first day of the month following the date on which the Eligible Retired Executive has a Separation From Service or is determined to be Totally and Permanently Disabled. 
    
  (b)        Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan to the contrary, if a Specified Employee incurs a Separation From Service, other than as a result of such Specified Employee's death, payment of any Pension Parity benefit to such Specified Employee shall commence on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the first day of the seventh month following Separation from Service.  Any Pension Parity Benefit payments to which a Specified Employee otherwise would have been entitled during the first 6 months following such Specified Employee's Separation From Service shall be accumulated and paid in a lump sum payment on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the first day of the seventh month following such Separation From Service.  The payment delayed under this Section shall not bear interest.  
    
  (c)         Payments to an Eligible Retired Executive hereunder shall cease at the end of the month in which the Eligible Retired Executive dies.  The Pension Parity Surviving Spouse Benefit, in the amount determined under Section 5.03, shall be payable out of the Company's general funds monthly beginning on the first day of the month following the Eligible Retired executive's death.  Pension Parity Surviving Spouse Benefits paid to an Eligible Surviving Spouse shall cease at the end of the month in which the Eligible Surviving Spouse dies. 
    
    5.05  Administration and Interpretation.    The Group Vice President - Human Resources and Corporate Services and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (or, in the event of a change in title, such officer's functional equivalent) shall have the full power and authority to develop uniform administrative rules and procedures to administer the Pension Parity Benefit and the Pension Parity Surviving Spouse Benefit, and specifically shall have the authority to develop rules to cover specific situations that may require that the Pension Parity Benefit or the Pension Parity Surviving Spouse Benefit to be adjusted to reflect retirement payments from other sources in respect of prior subsidiary service of the Eligible Retired Executive.  In the event of a change in the designated officer's title, the officer or officers with functional responsibility for Retirement Plans shall have the power and authority to administer and interpret this Plan. 
       
    Section 6.  Earning Out Conditions.    Anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding, the right of any Eligible Retired Executive to receive Supplemental Benefit, Conditional Annuity or Pension Parity payments hereunder for any month shall accrue only if, during the entire period from the date of retirement to the end of such month, the Eligible Retired Executive shall have earned out such payment by refraining from engaging in any activity that is directly or indirectly in competition with any activity of the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof. 
    
    In the event of an Eligible Retired Executive's nonfulfillment of the condition set forth in the immediately preceding paragraph, no further payment shall be made to the Eligible Retired Executive or the Designated Beneficiary; provided, however, that the nonfulfillment of such condition may at any time (whether before, at the time of or subsequent to termination of employment) be waived in the following manner: 
    
  (a) with respect to any such Eligible Retired Executive who at any time shall have been a member of the Board of Directors, an Executive Vice President, a Group Vice President, a Vice President, the Treasurer, the Controller or the Secretary of the Company, such waiver may be granted by the Committee upon its determination  

that in its sole judgment there shall not have been and will not be any substantial adverse effect upon the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof by reason of the nonfulfillment of such condition; and 
    
  (b) with respect to any other such Eligible Retired Executive, such waiver may be granted by the Annual Incentive Compensation Committee of Ford Motor Company (or any committee appointed for the purpose) upon its determination that in its sole judgment there shall not have been and will not be any such substantial adverse effect. 
    
  Anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding, Supplemental Benefit, Conditional Annuity and Pension Parity payments shall not be paid to or with respect to any person as to whom it has been determined that such person at any time (whether before or subsequent to termination of employment) acted in a manner inimical to the best interests of the Company.  Any such determination shall be made by (i) the Committee with respect to any Eligible Retired Executive who at any time shall have been a member of the Board of Directors, an Executive Vice President, a Group Vice President, a Vice President, the Treasurer, the Controller or the Secretary of the Company, and (ii) the Annual Incentive Compensation Committee of Ford Motor Company (or any committee appointed for the purpose) with respect to any other Eligible Retired Executive, and shall apply to any amounts payable after the date of the applicable committee's action hereunder, regardless of whether the Eligible Retired Executive has commenced receiving any benefits hereunder.  Conduct which constitutes engaging in an activity that is directly or indirectly in competition with any activity of the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof shall be governed by the two immediately preceding paragraphs of this Section and shall not be subject to any determination under this paragraph. 
    
  Section 7.  General Provisions. 
    
    7.01  Administration and Interpretation.    An otherwise Eligible Executive's Early Retirement under the Plan is subject to approval by the Executive Personnel Committee.  Except as otherwise provided in the preceding sentence and except as the committees specified in Sections 4 and 6 are authorized to administer the Plan in certain respects, the Group Vice President - Human Resources and Corporate Services and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (or, in the event of a change in title, such officer's functional equivalent) shall have full power and authority on behalf of the Company to administer and interpret the Plan.  In the event of a change in a designated officer's title, the officer or officers with functional responsibility for Retirement Plans shall have the power and authority to administer and interpret the Plan.  All decisions with respect to the administration and interpretation of the Plan shall be final and shall be binding upon all persons.  In the event that an Article, Section or paragraph of the Code, Treasury Regulations, or Retirement Plans is renumbered, such renumbered Article, Section or paragraph shall apply to applicable references herein. 
    
    7.02  Deductions.    The Company may deduct from any payment of Supplemental Benefits, Conditional Annuity benefits, or Pension Parity Benefits to an Eligible Retired Executive, or from any payment of Pension Parity Surviving Spouse Benefits to an Eligible Surviving Spouse, any and all amounts owed to it by such Eligible Retired Executive or Eligible Surviving Spouse for any reason, and all taxes required by law or government regulation to be deducted or withheld. 
           
    7.03  No Contract of Employment.    The Plan is an expression of the Company's present policy with respect to Company executives who meet the eligibility requirements set forth herein; it is not a part of any contract of employment.  No Eligible Executive, Designated Beneficiary, Eligible Surviving Spouse or any other person shall have any legal or other right to any Supplemental Benefit, Conditional Annuity, Pension Parity Benefit or Pension Parity Surviving Spouse Benefit. 
    
                  7.04  Governing Law.    Except as otherwise provided under federal law, the Plan and all rights thereunder shall be governed, construed and administered in accordance with the laws of the State of Michigan. 
    
    7.05  Amendment or Termination.    The Company reserves the right to modify or amend, in whole or in part, or to terminate this Plan, at any time without notice; provided, however, that no distribution of SERP Benefits shall occur upon termination of this Plan unless applicable requirements of Code Section 409A have been met.  
    
    7.06  Local Payment Authorities.    The Vice President and Treasurer and the Assistant Treasurer (or, in the event of a change in title, such officer's functional equivalent) may act individually to delegate authority to administrative personnel to make benefit payments to Eligible Retired Executives in accordance with plan provisions. 

7.07  Code Section 409A. 
    
  (a)        The provisions of Code Section 409A are incorporated into the Plan by reference to the extent necessary for any benefit provided under the Plan that is subject to Code Section 409A to comply with such requirements and, except as otherwise expressly determined by the Committee, the Plan shall be administered in accordance with Code Section 409A as if the requirements of Code Section 409A were set forth herein.  The Company reserves the right to take such action, on a uniform and consistent basis, as the Company deems necessary or desirable to ensure compliance with Code Section 409A, and applicable additional regulatory guidance thereunder, or to achieve the goals of the Plan without having adverse tax consequences under this Plan for any employee or beneficiary.  Unless determined otherwise by the Committee, any such action shall be taken in a manner that will enable any benefit provided under the Plan that is intended to be exempt from Code Section 409A to continue to be so exempt, or to enable any benefit provided under the Plan that is intended to comply with Code Section 409A to continue to so comply. 
    
  (b)        In no event shall any transfer of liabilities to or from this Plan result in an impermissible acceleration or deferral of any SERP Benefits under Code Section 409A. In the event such a transfer would cause an impermissible acceleration or deferral under Code Section 409A, such transfer shall not occur. 
    
  (c)        In no event will application of any eligibility requirements under this Plan cause an impermissible acceleration or deferral between Plan benefits under Code Section 409A. 
    
  (d)        In the event an Eligible Executive or Eligible Retired Executive is reemployed following a Separation From Service, distribution of any SERP Benefit shall not cease upon such Eligible Executive's or Eligible Retired Executive's reemployment. 
    
  (e)        After receipt of Plan benefits, the obligations of the Company with respect to such benefits shall be satisfied and no Eligible Executive, Eligible Surviving Spouse, or Designated Beneficiary shall have any further claims against the Plan or the Company with respect to Plan benefits. 
    
    Section 8. Claim for Benefits 
    
  8.01 Denial of a Claim.    A claim for benefits under the Plan shall be submitted in writing to the plan administrator.  If a claim for benefits or participation is denied in whole or in part by the plan administrator, the Eligible Retired Executive will receive written notification within a reasonable period from the date the claim for benefits or participation is received.  Such notice shall be deemed given upon mailing, full postage prepaid in the United States mail or on date sent electronically to the Eligible Retired Executive.  If the plan administrator determines that an extension of time for processing is required, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the Eligible Retired Executive as soon as practical.  
  8.02  Review of Denial of Claim  . In the event that the plan administrator denies a claim for benefits or participation, an Eligible Retired Executive may request a review by filing a written appeal to the Group Vice President - Human Resources and Corporate Service and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (or, in the event of a change in title, such officer's functional equivalent), or such officer's designee(s), within sixty (60) days of receipt of the written notification of denial.  The appeal will be considered and a decision shall be rendered as soon as practical.  In the event an extension of time is needed to consider the appeal and render the decision, written notice shall be provided to the Eligible Retired Executive notifying them of such time extension. 
    
  8.03 Decision on Appeal.   The decision on review of the appeal shall be in writing. Such notice shall be deemed given upon mailing, full postage prepaid in the United States mail or on the date sent electronically to the Eligible Retired Executive.  Decisions rendered on the appeal are final and conclusive and are only subject to the arbitrary and capricious standard of judicial review. 
    
  8.04 Limitations Period.    No legal action for benefits under the Plan may be brought against the Plan until after the claims and appeal procedures have been exhausted.  Legal actions under the Plan for benefits must be brought no later than two (2) years after the claim arises.  No other action may be brought against the Plan more than six (6) months after the claim arises. 

Appendix A 
                   
    Applicable to retirements of Eligible Executives on or after January 1, 1985 but prior to January 1, 1992, or retirements of Eligible Executives from certain former Company Affiliates. 
    
    Section 1.  Definitions  .  The terms used in this Appendix shall have the same meaning as those in the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, except as follows: 
    
  1.01        "  Contributory Service  " shall mean without duplication the years and any fractional year of contributory service at retirement, not exceeding one year for any calendar year, of the Eligible Executive under all Retirement Plans. 
    
  1.02        "  Eligible Executive  " shall mean a person who is the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, an Executive Vice President or a Vice President of the Company (excluding any such person who is an employee of a foreign Affiliate of the Company) or a Company employee in Salary Grade 13 or its equivalent or above (Salary Grade 20 or its equivalent or above for Company employees prior to January 1, 1989). 
    
    Section 2.  Supplemental Benefits  . 
    
  2.01  Eligibility  .  An Eligible Retired Executive shall be eligible to receive a Supplemental Benefit as provided herein. 
    
    2.02         Amount of Supplemental Benefit  . 
    
    (a)  Subject to any reductions pursuant to Subsection (b) below and to any limitations and reductions pursuant to other provisions of the Plan, the monthly Supplemental Benefit shall be an amount determined as follows: 
    
  (i)  For those employees who were Eligible Executives on or after January 1, 1989 and retired prior to January 1, 1992, an amount equal to the Eligible Executive's Final Five Year Average Base Salary multiplied by the Eligible Executive's years of Contributory Service at retirement, and further multiplied by the Applicable Percentage based on the Eligible Executive's position or salary grade immediately preceding retirement and on when the Contributory Service occurred, as follows: 
    
    Status at Retirement                      Applicable Percentage 
    Contributory        Contributory 
       Service           Service 
    before 1/1/89        from 1/1/89 
    Chairman, Vice Chairman, 
      President                .60%              .90% 
    Executive Vice President        .50%             .80% 
    Vice Presidents 
      Salary Grade 23            .40%             .70% 
      Salary Grade 22            .40%              .70% 
      Salary Grade 21            .40%             .70% 
      Salary Grade 20            .40%              .70% 
    Non-Vice Presidents 
      Salary Grade 21            .30%              .60% 
      Salary Grade 20            .30%                .60% 
      Salary Grade 19            .30%              .60% 
      Salary Grade 18, 17, 16        .20%              .40% 
      Salary Grade 15, 14, 13        .10%              .20% 
    
  (ii)  For those employees who were Eligible Executives prior to January 1, 1989 and who retired prior to January 1, 1992, the greater of (A) or (B): 
    
  (A)  the Eligible Executive's Final Five Year Average Base Salary multiplied by the Eligible Executive's Credited Service, and further multiplied by the Applicable Percentage based on the Eligible Executive's position or salary grade immediately preceding retirement, as follows: 

Status at Retirement        Applicable Percentage 
  Chairman, Vice Chairman, 
          President                         .50% 
  Executive Vice President               .40% 
  Vice President  
             Salary Grade 23               .35% 
              Salary Grade 22               .30% 
              Salary Grade 21               .25% 
              Salary Grade 20               .20% 
  Non-Vice Presidents 
              Salary Grade 21               .25% 
              Salary Grade 20               .20% 
    
  (B)  the Eligible Executive's Final Five Year Average Base Salary multiplied by the Eligible Executive's Contributory Service, and further multiplied by the Applicable Percentage set forth in Section (a)(i) above based on the Eligible Executive's position or salary grade immediately preceding retirement and on when the Contributory Service occurred. 
    
    (b)  For an Eligible Retired Executive who shall retire before age 62 the monthly Supplemental Benefit payable hereunder shall equal the amount calculated in accordance with the immediately preceding Subsection (a) reduced by 5/18 of 1% multiplied by the number of months from the later of the date the Supplemental Benefit commences or age 55 in the case of earlier receipt as a result of Disability Retirement to the first day of the month after the Eligible Retired Executive would attain age 62. 
    
    Section 3.  Former Affiliates and Former Employees. 
    
    3.01   Ford Aerospace Corporation  .  An employee of Ford Aerospace Corporation who was a Vice President of Ford Motor Company as of April 1, 1985 and retired May 1, 1985 shall be deemed to be an Eligible Executive under the Plan only for Supplemental Benefits and shall be eligible to receive such benefits under the Plan based on Credited Service under the Salaried Retirement Plan of Ford Aerospace Corporation. 
    
    3.02       Ford New Holland, Inc  .  The following shall be applicable to former employees of Ford Tractor Operations who were transferred to Ford New Holland (FNH) and who participated in the General Retirement Plan for service through December 31, 1989 ("FNH Employees"). 
    
    (a)  Retirement-Eligible FNH Employees as of January 1, 1989.   
    
    A FNH Employee who was eligible to retire under the General Retirement Plan on or prior to January 1, 1989, and who was in a position equivalent to a Salary Grade 13 or above on December 31, 1989, and who retires directly from FNH shall be deemed to be an Eligible Executive under the Plan only for Supplemental Benefits and shall receive such benefits as are applicable under the terms of the Plan in effect at the date of retirement, if retired prior to January 1, 1992, or the terms of the Plan in effect on January 1, 1992, if retired on or after January 1, 1992; provided, however, that for purposes of calculating the Supplemental Benefit, the Plan shall use (i) the employee's position or salary grade at FNH as of December 31, 1989; (ii) the Final Five Year Average Base Salary immediately preceding retirement of the Eligible Executive from FNH; and (iii) the employee's Credited Service or Contributory Service, as applicable, as of December 31, 1989. 
    
    (b)  Non-Retirement Eligible Employees as of January 1, 1989. 
    
    A FNH Employee who was not eligible to retire under the General Retirement Plan on or prior to January 1, 1989, and who was in a position equivalent to a Salary Grade 13 or above on December 31, 1989, and who retires directly from FNH shall be deemed to be an Eligible Executive under the Plan only for Supplemental Benefits and shall receive such benefits as are applicable under the terms of the Plan in effect as of January 1, 1989; provided, however, that for purposes of calculating the Supplemental Benefit, the Plan shall use (i) the employee's position or salary grade at FNH as of December 31, 1989; (ii) the Final Five Year Average Base Salary as of January 1, 1989; and (iii) the employee's Contributory Service as of December 31, 1989.  

3.03      Sale of Favesa Operations to Lear Seating Corporation.    An Eligible Executive whose employment was transferred to Lear Seating Corporation by reason of the sale of a portion of Plastic and Trim Product Division's seat operations to Lear on November 1, 1993 and who was eligible to retire under the terms of the General Retirement Plan as of December 31, 1993, shall retain eligibility to receive a Supplemental Benefit, and shall receive such benefits as are applicable under the terms of the Plan in effect as of December 31, 1993; provided, however that for purposes of calculating the Supplemental Benefit, the Plan shall use (i) the employee's position or salary grade with the Company as of December 31, 1993; (ii) the Final Five Year Average Base Salary as of December 31, 1993; and (iii) the employee's Credited Service as of December 31, 1993.   
    
           3.04  Transition of Jaguar/Landrover Employee to Tata Motors.    An Eligible Executive whose employment was transferred to Tata Motors by reason of the sale of the assets of Jaguar/Landrover divisions to Tata Motors on January 1, 2009 and who was eligible to retire under the terms of the General Retirement Plan as of December 31, 2008, shall retain eligibility to receive a Supplemental Benefit, and shall receive such benefits as are applicable under the terms of the Plan in effect as of December 31, 2008; provided, however that for purposes of calculating the Supplemental Benefit, the Plan shall use (i) the employee's position or salary grade with the Company as of December 31, 2008; (ii) the Final Five Year Average Base Salary as of December 31, 2008; and (iii) the employee's Credited Service as of December 31, 2008. 
    
    3.05  Visteon Corporation.    The following shall be applicable to employees of Ford who were transferred to Visteon Corporation on April 1, 2000 ("U.S. Visteon Employees") and who ceased active participation in the Plan as of June 30, 2000 after Visteon Corporation was spun-off from Ford, June 28, 2000. 
    
    (a)        Group I and Group II Employees. 
    
    For purposes of this paragraph, a "Group I Employee" shall mean a U.S. Visteon Employee who as of July 1, 2000 was eligible for immediate normal or regular early retirement under the provisions of the GRP as in effect on July 1, 2000.  A "Group II Employee" shall mean a U.S. Visteon Employee who (i) was not a Group I Employee; (ii) had as of July 1, 2000 a combination of age and continuous service that equals or exceeds sixty (60) points (partial months disregarded); and (iii) could become eligible for normal or regular early retirement under the provisions of the GRP as in effect on July 1, 2000 within the period after July 1, 2000 equal to the employee's Ford service as of July 1, 2000.  A Group I or Group II Employee shall retain eligibility to receive a Supplemental Benefit and shall receive such benefits as are applicable under the terms of the Plan in effect on the retirement date, based on meeting eligibility criteria as of July 1, 2000 and Credited Service on July 1, 2000 and the Final Five Year Average Base Salary as of the retirement date. 
    
           (b) 
    Group III Employees. 
       
    For purposes of this paragraph, a "Group III Employee" shall mean a U.S. Visteon Employee who participated in the GRP prior to July 1, 2000 other than a Group I or Group II Employee.  The Plan shall have no liability for any benefits payable to Group III Employees who were otherwise eligible hereunder with respect to Credited Service prior to July 1, 2000 on or after July 1, 2000.              
    
    Section 4.  General.    Except as otherwise provided in this Appendix A, the terms of the Plan applicable to retirements of Eligible Executives on or after January 1, 1992 shall be applicable to the retirements of Eligible Executives on or after January 1, 1985 but prior to January 1, 1992. 

Appendix B 
  Special Supplemental Benefits 
    
  Named Executive Officers 

Section 1.  Special Supplemental Benefits Based on Notional Service and Salary.    Special Supplemental Benefits will be provided to each Eligible Executive listed in Subsection 1.03 below for the period of time during which such Eligible Executive did not receive a cash base salary from the Company by determining the Supplemental Benefits that otherwise would have been provided to such Eligible Executive for such period using notional service and salary as follows; provided that, in no event shall an Eligible Executive receive both Supplemental Benefits and special Supplemental Benefits for the same period of service: 
    
  1.01 Credited Service.    Credited Service, if any, for each such Eligible Executive for any period of time during which the Eligible Executive did not receive a cash base salary shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, based on the credited service the Eligible Executive would have accrued under the General Retirement Plan had the Eligible Executive participated in, and accrued credited service under, the General Retirement Plan during such period of time.  
    
  1.02 Monthly Base Salary.    Monthly Base Salary for each such Eligible Executive shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, based on a notional monthly base salary for the period of time during which the Eligible Executive did not receive a cash base salary. 
    
  1.03 Affected Eligible Executives.    The following Eligible Executives' special Supplemental Benefits shall be determined in accordance with this Section: 
    
  William Clay Ford, Jr. 

</EX-10.E>

<EX-10.E-1>
 5
 f12312012exhibit10-ex1.htm
 EXHIBIT

F 12.31.2012 Exhibit 10-E-1 

Exhibit 10-E-1 
    
  DEFINED CONTRIBUTION SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN 
  (Effective January 1, 2013) 

Section 1.  Introduction  .  On January 1, 2013, the Company established this Plan, which shall be known as the "Ford Motor Company Defined Contribution Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan" and is hereinafter referred to as the "Plan," for the purpose of providing Eligible Executives, hired or rehired on or after January 1, 2004 and who are actively employed by the Company on or after January 1, 2013, with Supplemental Benefits and/or Special Supplemental Benefits in the event of such Eligible Executive's termination from employment with the Company under certain circumstances. 
    
  Section 2.  Definitions  .  As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the following meanings, respectively: 
    
  2.01      "  Affiliate  " shall mean, as applied with respect to any person or legal entity specified, a person or legal entity that directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls or is controlled by, or is under common control with, the person or legal entity specified. 
    
  2.02     "Base Monthly Salary"   shall mean for the purposes of the Plan, the monthly base salary rate of such Eligible Executive during each month, prior to giving effect to any salary reduction agreement pursuant to an employee benefit plan, as defined in Section 3(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, (i) to which Code Section 125 or Code Section 402(e)(3), applies or (ii) which provides for the elective deferral of compensation.  It shall not include supplemental compensation or any other kind of extra or additional compensation. 
    
  2.03     "Code"   shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. 
    
  2.04    "Committee"   shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company. 
    
  2.05    "Company"   shall mean Ford Motor Company and such of the subsidiaries of Ford Motor Company as, with the consent of Ford Motor Company, shall have adopted this Plan. 
    
  2.06    "Designated Third Party Administrator"   shall mean the service provider employed by the Company to act as record keeper to maintain the Notional Accounts and process notional investment elections. 
    
  2.07    "Eligible Executive"   shall mean a person who is the Executive Chairman, Chairman, Vice Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Operating Officer, an Executive Vice President, a Group Vice President or a Vice President of the Company (excluding any such person who is an employee of a foreign Affiliate of the Company) or a Company employee in Leadership Level Four or above, or its equivalent, who satisfies the requirements of Section 3.01.   Eligible Executive  shall not include any supplemental employee. 
    
  2.08    "Eligibility Service"   shall mean Company service while an Eligible Executive. 
    
  2.09    "ERISA"   shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. 
    
  2.10    "FRP"   shall mean the Ford Retirement Plan, as amended from time to time. 
    
  2.11    "Notional Account"   shall mean the book entry account, which shall include Notional Credits, and any interest equivalents, dividend equivalents or other earnings credited to such book entry account, established by the Company for each Eligible Executive. 
    
  2.12    "Notional Credits"   shall mean the amounts credited to the Eligible Executive's Notional Account each pay period as described under Section 3.02. 
    
  2.13    "Separation From Service"   shall be determined to have occurred on the date on which an employee incurs a  separation from service  within the meaning of Code Section 409A. 

2.14    "Special Supplemental Benefit"   shall mean benefits payable under this Plan as determined in accordance with Section 3.06. 
    
  2.15    "Specified Employee"   shall mean an employee of the Company who is a "Key Employee" as defined in Code Section 416(i)(1)(A)(i), (ii) or (iii), applied in accordance with the regulations thereunder and disregarding Subsection 416(i)(5).  A Specified Employee shall be identified as of December 31   st    of each calendar year and such identification shall apply to any Specified Employee who shall incur a Separation From Service in the 12-month period commencing April 1   st    of the immediately succeeding calendar year.  An employee who is determined to be a Specified Employee shall remain a Specified Employee throughout such 12-month period regardless of whether the employee meets the definition of "Specified Employee" on the date the employee incurs a Separation From Service.  This provision is effective for Specified Employees who incur a Separation From Service on or after January 1, 2005.  For purposes of determining Specified Employees, the definition of compensation under Treasury Regulation Section 1.415(c)-2(d)(3) shall be used, applied without the use of any of the special timing rules provided in Treasury Regulation Section 1.415(c)-2(e) or the special rule in Treasury Regulation Section 1.415(c)-2(g)(5)(i), but applied with the use of the special rule in Treasury Regulation Section 1.415(c)-2(g)(5)(ii). 
    
  2.16    "Subsidiary"   shall mean, as applied with respect to any person or legal entity specified, (i) a person or legal entity a majority of the voting stock of which is owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the person or legal entity specified or (ii) any other type of business organization in which the person or legal entity specified owns or controls, directly or indirectly, a majority interest. 
    
  2.17    "Supplemental Benefit"   shall mean benefits payable under this Plan as determined in accordance with Section 3. 
    
  2.18    "Valuation Date"   shall mean March 15   th    of each calendar year, or the next preceding business day for which valuation information is available, and shall be the date on which a Notional Account shall be valued for purposes of determining the amount to be distributed in a particular distribution year.  
    
  Section 3.  Supplemental Benefits. 
    
  3.01  Eligibility.    Each Eligible Executive who: 

(iii) 
    who upon Separation From Service is at least age 55 with ten or more years of Eligibility Service or is at least age 65 with five or more years of Eligibility Service; and  
       
           (iv) 
    is being Separated From Service upon the approval of the Company, 
       
  shall receive a Supplemental Benefit as provided herein.  
    
  3.02  Notional Credits.    A Notional Account shall be established for each Eligible Executive.  Each pay period, the Eligible Executive's Notional Account shall be credited with Notional Credits representing an amount equal to the product of their Base Monthly Salary received multiplied by the applicable percentage below which is based on the Eligible Executive's whole age at the end of the present calendar     year and Leadership Level during that month: 

Applicable Percentage 
    
    Age  30        Age 30 - 39        Age 40 - 49        Age 50+ 

Leadership Level One  
    - Executive Chairman, Chairman,  
  Vice Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, 
   President, Chief Operating Officer       18.00%       16.50%       15.50%       14.50%         
    - Executive Vice President              12.00%       10.50%         9.50%         8.50% 
   - Group Vice President   Vice President     9.00%         7.50%         6.50%         5.50% 
  Leadership Level Two                               6.00%         4.50%         3.50%         2.50% 
  Leadership Level Three   Four                      4.50%         3.00%         2.00%         1.00% 
    
  An Eligible Executive shall not receive a credit in any month prior to the date the Eligible Executive became covered under the Plan or after a Separation From Service has occurred. 
    
  3.03  Supplemental Benefit.    The Eligible Executive's Supplemental Benefit shall be equal to the value of their Notional Account at the time of distribution.   
    
  An Eligible Executive's Supplemental Benefit will be based on the value of the Eligible Executive's Notional Account as if the amounts in the Notional Account had been invested in actual investment options selected by the Eligible Executive.  The investment options available for selection shall be identical to the investment options available under the FRP.  In the absence of an investment selection by an Eligible Executive, the Eligible Executive's Notional Credits will be allocated to an appropriate target-date fund offered under the FRP based on the Eligible Executive's age.  The Designated Third Party Administrator will maintain a record of each Notional Account, process investment selections, and otherwise be the record keeper of the Notional Accounts.  Investment options selected under this Section shall be used solely for purposes of valuing the Eligible Executive's Notional Account which is used to determine the Supplemental Benefit.  Eligible Executives shall not have voting rights or any other ownership rights with respect to any investment options selected as the measuring mechanism for the Notional Accounts established under this Section.   
    
  Eligible Executives may not withdraw or borrow against amounts credited to any book entry account under this Plan.  The Plan will not accept rollovers from other plans.  Distributions may not be rolled over to other plans.  An Eligible Executive may not assign or alienate the Supplemental Benefit and the Plan will not recognize a domestic relations order that purports to assign the Supplemental Benefit to another person.  
    
  3.04  Payments.     
    
           (i) 
    Except as otherwise provided below, distribution of the Supplemental Benefit shall be made in five annual installment payments, with such annual installments beginning on, or as soon as reasonably practicable after, the first Valuation Date following the one year anniversary of the Eligible Executive's Separation From Service.  Thereafter, each installment shall be paid annually on, or as soon as reasonably practicable after, each successive Valuation Date. 
              (ii) 
    Prior to the March 15   th    immediately following an Eligible Executive's Separation From Service, an Eligible Executive may elect to defer payment of the Supplemental Benefit in accordance with this Subsection.  Distribution of a deferred Supplemental Benefit shall be made in five annual installment payments, with such annual installments beginning on, or as soon as reasonably practicable after, the first Valuation Date following the fifth anniversary of the Valuation Date on which payment would have commenced had the Eligible Executive not elected to defer commencement of the Supplemental Benefit. 
              (iii) 
    Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan to the contrary, if a Specified Employee incurs a Separation From Service, other than as a result of such Specified Employee's death, payment of any Supplemental Benefit to such Specified Employee shall commence no sooner than the first day of the seventh month following the Separation From Service. 
              (iv) 
    Except as provided in Section 3.05, payments with respect to an Eligible Executive hereunder shall cease at the Eligible Executive's death. 

3.05  Death Benefits. 
    
           (i) 
    Upon death, but before Separation From Service, if the Eligible Executive has satisfied the eligibility requirements under Section 3.01(i), (ii) and (iii), the Eligible Executive's Notional Account shall be distributed in its entirety to the Eligible Executive's beneficiary or deemed beneficiary under the FRP.  All such distributions shall occur on, or as soon as reasonably practicable after, such Eligible Executive's date of death. 
              (ii) 
    If the Eligible Executive's death occurs after Separation From Service and before all five annual payments are made, the Eligible Executive's Notional Account balance shall be distributed in its entirety to the Eligible Executive's beneficiary or deemed beneficiary under the FRP. All such distributions shall occur on, or as soon as reasonably practicable after, such Eligible Executive's date of death. 
       
  3.06  Special Supplemental Benefits.    In addition to, or in place of, any other Supplemental Benefits otherwise provided under this Plan, the Company may, in its sole discretion, provide Special Supplemental Benefits to certain Eligible Executives, including providing that certain Eligible Executives shall not be eligible for a Supplemental Benefits or shall be excluded from participation in the Plan.  Special Supplemental Benefits provided to Eligible Executives whose compensation is subject to the executive compensation disclosure rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 shall be set forth in Appendix A.  Special Supplemental Benefits provided to Eligible Executives who are not subject to such disclosure rules shall be set forth in a separate confidential schedule to the Plan that is administered by the HR Director-Compensation and Executive Personnel Office.  Any Special Supplemental Benefit provided pursuant to this Section shall be subject to, and paid in accordance with, the terms and conditions of this Plan, including without limitation Section 3.04. 
    
  3.07  Effect of Separation from Service Prior to Eligibility.     In the event an Eligible Executive incurs a Separation From Service prior to meeting the eligibility requirements of Section 3.01, no Supplemental Benefit or Special Supplemental Benefit shall be payable under the Plan and such Eligible Executive's Notional Account shall be closed. 
    
  Section 4.  General Provisions. 
    
  4.01  Administration and Interpretation. 
    
           (i) 
    The terms of the Plan shall determine the benefits payable to an Eligible Executive and no Eligible Executive shall be permitted to receive a benefit under the Plan that would be inconsistent with such terms. 
       
           (ii) 
    The Group Vice President - Human Resources and Corporate Services and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (or, in the event of a change in title, such officer's functional equivalent) shall have full power and authority on behalf of the Company to administer and interpret the Plan.  In the event of a change in a designated officer's title, the officer or officers with functional responsibility for the Retirement Plans shall have the power and authority to administer and interpret the Plan.  All decisions with respect to the administration and interpretation of the Plan shall be final and binding upon all persons. 
       
           (iii) 
    In the event that an Article, Section or paragraph of the Code or Treasury Regulations is renumbered, such renumbered Article, Section or paragraph shall apply to applicable references in this Plan. 
       
  4.02  Supplemental Benefits Not Funded.    The Company's obligations under this Plan shall not be funded and Supplemental Benefits and Special Supplemental Benefits under this Plan shall be payable only out of the general funds of the Company. 
    
  4.03  Earning Out Conditions.   Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, all rights of an Eligible Executive under the Plan to receive distribution of all or any part of the Supplemental Benefit or Special Supplemental Benefit shall cease on and as of the date on which it has been determined by the Company that such Eligible Executive at any time (whether before or subsequent to termination of such Eligible Executive's employment) either acted in a manner inimical to the best interests of the Company or engaged in an activity that was directly or indirectly in competition with any activity of the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof, unless waived by the Company according to procedures adopted by the Committee.   

4.04  Deductions.    The Company may deduct from any payment of Supplemental Benefits or Special Supplemental Benefits to an Eligible Retired Executive, or from any payment of Supplemental Benefits or Special Supplemental Benefits to a beneficiary, any and all amounts owed to it by such Eligible Executive or beneficiary for any reason, and all taxes required by law or government regulation to be deducted or withheld. 
    
  4.05  No Contract of Employment.    The Plan is an expression of the Company's present policy with respect to Company executives who meet the eligibility requirements set forth herein; it is not a part of any contract of employment.  No Eligible Executive, beneficiary or any other person shall have any legal or other right to any Supplemental Benefit or Special Supplemental Benefit. 
    
  4.06  Governing Law.    Except as otherwise provided under federal law, the Plan and all rights thereunder shall be governed, construed and administered in accordance with the laws of the State of Michigan. 
    
  4  .07  Amendment or Termination.    The Company reserves the right to modify or amend, in whole or in part, or to terminate this Plan, at any time without notice; provided, however, that no distribution of Supplemental Benefits or Special Supplemental Benefits shall occur upon termination of this Plan unless applicable requirements of Code Section 409A have been met.  
    
  4.08  Local Payment Authorities.    The Vice President and Treasurer and the Assistant Treasurer (or, in the event of a change in title, such officer's functional equivalent) may act individually to delegate authority to administrative personnel to make benefit payments to Eligible Executives in accordance with plan provisions. 
    
  4  .09  Code Section 409A. 
    
           (i) 
    The provisions of Code Section 409A are incorporated into the Plan by reference to the extent necessary for any benefit provided under the Plan that is subject to Code Section 409A to comply with such requirements and, except as otherwise expressly determined by the Committee, the Plan shall be administered in accordance with Code Section 409A as if the requirements of Code Section 409A were set forth herein.  The Company reserves the right to take such action, on a uniform and consistent basis, as the Company deems necessary or desirable to ensure compliance with Code Section 409A, and applicable additional regulatory guidance thereunder, or to achieve the goals of the Plan without having adverse tax consequences under this Plan for any employee or beneficiary.  Unless determined otherwise by the Committee, any such action shall be taken in a manner that will enable any benefit provided under the Plan that is intended to be exempt from Code Section 409A to continue to be so exempt, or to enable any benefit provided under the Plan that is intended to comply with Code Section 409A to continue to so comply. 
       
           (ii) 
    In no event shall any transfer of liabilities to or from this Plan result in an impermissible acceleration or deferral of Supplemental Benefits or Special Supplemental Benefits under Code Section 409A. In the event such a transfer would cause an impermissible acceleration or deferral under Code Section 409A, such transfer shall not occur. 
       
           (iii) 
    In no event will application of any eligibility requirements under this Plan cause an impermissible acceleration or deferral between Plan benefits under Code Section 409A. 
       
           (iv) 
    In the event an Eligible Executive receiving, or entitled to receive, a Supplemental Benefit and/or a Special Supplemental Benefit is reemployed following a Separation From Service, distribution of any Supplemental Benefit or Special Supplemental Benefit shall not cease or be deferred upon such Eligible Executive's reemployment.  Any additional Supplemental Benefits or Special Supplemental Benefits to which such Eligible Executive may become entitled following reemployment shall be determined and paid, independent of any other Supplemental Benefit or Special Supplemental Benefit, in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Plan, including Section 3 and Subsection 4.03. 
       
           (v) 
    After receipt of Plan benefits, the obligations of the Company with respect to such benefits shall be satisfied and no Eligible Executive or beneficiary shall have any further claims against the Plan or the Company with respect to Plan benefits. 
              (vi) 
    Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan to the contrary, any payment deferral election made pursuant to Section 3.04(ii) shall be made not less than 12 months prior to the Valuation Date on which  

payment of such Supplemental Benefit or Special Supplemental Benefit otherwise would have commenced without such deferral election and such election shall not take effect until at least 12 months after the date on which such election is made.  Further, commencement of payments with respect to which such a deferral election is made shall be deferred for a period of not less than five years from the date such payments otherwise would have commenced. 
    
  Section 5. Claim for Benefits 
    
  5.01  Denial of a Claim.    A claim for benefits under the Plan shall be submitted in writing to the plan administrator.  If a claim for benefits or participation is denied in whole or in part by the plan administrator, the Eligible Executive will receive written notification within a reasonable period from the date the claim for benefits or participation is received.  Such notice shall be deemed given upon mailing, full postage prepaid in the United States mail or on date sent electronically to the Eligible Executive.  If the plan administrator determines that an extension of time for processing is required, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the Eligible Executive as soon as practical.  
    
  5.02  Review of Denial of Claim  . In the event that the plan administrator denies a claim for benefits or participation, an Eligible Executive may request a review by filing a written appeal. If the appeal is from a Leadership One Eligible Executive, the appeal will be heard by the Committee.  If the appeal is from a Leadership Level Two, Three or Four Eligible Executive, the appeal will be heard by  the Group Vice President - Human Resources and Corporate Service and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (or, in the event of a change in title, such officer's functional equivalent), or such officer's designee(s). All appeals must be filed within sixty (60) days of receipt of the written notification of denial.  The appeal will be considered and a decision shall be rendered as soon as practical.  In the event an extension of time is needed to consider the appeal and render the decision, written notice shall be provided to the Eligible Executive notifying the Eligible Executive of such time extension. 
    
  5.03 Decision on Appeal.   The decision on review of the appeal shall be in writing. Such notice shall be deemed given upon mailing, full postage prepaid in the United States mail or on the date sent electronically to the Eligible Executive.  Decisions rendered on the appeal are final and conclusive and are only subject to the arbitrary and capricious standard of judicial review. 
    
  5.04 Limitations Period.    No legal action for benefits under the Plan may be brought against the Plan until after the claims and appeal procedures have been exhausted.  Legal actions under the Plan for benefits must be brought no later than two (2) years after the claim arises.  No other action may be brought against the Plan more than six (6) months after the claim arises. 
  ATTACHMENT A 
    
  Named Executive Officers 
    
  Pursuant to Plan Section 3.06, Special Supplemental Benefits shall be excluded, limited or provided to Eligible Executives listed below as follows: 
    
  Eligible Executive                    Special Supplemental Benefit 
    
  Alan Mulally                    Shall be excluded from Plan participation entirely 
    
           Jim Farley 
    Shall be excluded from Plan participation until June 30, 2017; provided however, service earned prior to that date shall be used for purposes of determining Eligibility Service 

</EX-10.E-1>

<EX-10.L>
 6
 f12312012exhibit10-l.htm
 EXHIBIT

F 12.31.2012 Exhibit 10-L 

Exhibit 10-L 
    
  SELECT RETIREMENT PLAN 
  Amended and Restated Effective as of January 1, 2012 
    
    Section 1.  Introduction.    On June 9, 1994, the Company established this Plan for the purpose of providing voluntary retirement incentives to selected U.S. Company employees who are assigned to Leadership Levels 1 through 5 of the Company, or the equivalents of such Leadership Levels, constituting a select group of management or highly compensated employees. 
    
    Section 2.  Definitions.    As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the following meanings, respectively: 
    
  2.01    "Affiliate"   shall mean, as applied with respect to any person or legal entity specified, a person or legal entity that directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls or is controlled by, or is under common control with, the person or legal entity specified. 
    
  2.02    "Benefit Equalization Plan"   or   "BEP"   means the Ford Motor Company Benefit Equalization Plan, as it may be amended. 
    
  2.03    "Code"   means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. 
    
  2.04    "Company"   shall mean Ford Motor Company and such of the subsidiaries of Ford Motor Company as, with the consent of Ford Motor Company, shall have adopted this Plan. 
    
  2.05    "Contributory Service"   means, without duplication, the years and any fractional year of contributory service at retirement, not exceeding one year for any calendar year, of the Eligible Executive under the General Retirement Plan. 
    
  2.06    "Credited Service"   means, without duplication, the years and any fractional year of credited service at retirement, not exceeding one year for any calendar year, of the Eligible Executive under the General Retirement Plan. 
    
  2.07    "Deferred Equalization Plan"   or   "DEP"   means the Ford Motor Credit Company Deferred Equalization Plan, as it may be amended. 
    
  2.08    "DEP Select Benefits"   means the benefits described in Section 4.04. 
    
  2.09    "Eligible Executive"   means a full time Company employee who: 
    
    (i)        was hired or rehired prior to January 1, 2004, 
    
    (ii)        is at least age 55 as of the Retirement Effective Date, except as otherwise provided in Section 6, and who has at least ten years of service recognized for eligibility to receive a benefit under the General Retirement Plan as of the Retirement Effective Date, 
    
    (iii)        is assigned to Leadership Levels 1 through 5 of the Company, or the equivalents of such Leadership Levels,  
    
    (iv)        is selected by the Company to participate in the Select Retirement Plan, and 
    
    (v)        is in good standing as of the last day of employment. 
    
    In addition to the eligibility requirements above, to be eligible to receive a SERP Select Benefit, an Eligible Executive must, immediately preceding such Eligible Executive's Retirement Effective Date, have at least five continuous years of service as the Executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, an Executive Vice President, a Group Vice President or a Vice President of the Company (excluding any such person who is an employee of a foreign affiliate of the Company) or a Company employee assigned to Leadership Level Four or above, or its equivalent. 

In addition to the eligibility requirements above, to be eligible to receive an ESAP Select Benefit, an Eligible Executive must, immediately preceding such Eligible Executive's Retirement Effective Date, have at least five continuous years of service as a Company employee assigned to Leadership Level One or Two, or its equivalent. 
       
  2.10    "Eligible Surviving Spouse"   means a spouse, as defined by the Federal Defense of Marriage Act of 1996, to whom a Retired Employee has been married for at least one year at the date of the Retired Employee's death. 
    
  2.11    "ESAP Select Benefits"   means the benefits described in Section 4.03. 
    
  2.12    "Executive Separation Allowance Plan"   or   "ESAP"   means the Ford Motor Company Executive Separation Allowance Plan, as it may be amended. 
    
  2.13      "  Final Average Monthly Salary  " means "Final Average Monthly Salary" as defined in the General Retirement Plan. 
    
  2.14      "  Final Five Year Average Base Salary  " means the average of the final five year-end Monthly Base Salaries immediately preceding retirement of the Eligible Executive. 
    
  2.15    "General Retirement Plan"   or   "GRP"   means the Ford Motor Company General Retirement Plan, as it may be amended. 
    
  2.16    "GRP Select Benefits"   means the monthly benefits described in Section 4.01. 
    
  2.17      "  Monthly Base Salary  " means the monthly base salary paid to an Eligible Executive on December 31, prior to giving effect to any salary reduction agreement pursuant to an employee benefit plan, as defined in Section 3(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, (i) to which Code Section 125 or Code Section 402(e)(3) applies, or (ii) which provides for the elective deferral of compensation.  It does not include supplemental compensation or any other kind of extra or additional compensation. 
    
  2.18    "Plan"   means the Select Retirement Plan of Ford Motor Company, as it may be amended. 
    
  2.19    "Retired Executive"   means an Eligible Executive who has a Separation from Service from the Company under the terms and conditions of this Plan on the Retirement Effective Date.    
    
  2.20    "Retirement Effective Date"   means the date of Separation from Service designated by the Company.  Such Retirement Effective Date shall be only on the first of a month.  For purposes of determining the minimum 15% improvement described in Section 4.01, if a Retired Executive commences receiving a GRP benefit on or after the date on which the Retired Executive attains age 65, Retirement Effective Date means the date the Retired Executive commences receipt of the GRP benefit. 
    
  2.21    "Retirement Plans"   means the General Retirement Plan, the Benefit Equalization Plan, the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, the Executive Separation Allowance Plan and the Deferred Equalization Plan. 
    
  2.22    "Salary  " means salary at the basic salary rate without regard to the Code Section 401(a)(17) limit and not including supplemental compensation, premiums, pay for overtime, or any other kind of extra or additional compensation. 
    
  2.23    "Select Benefits"   means the retirement benefits described in Section 4. 
    
  2.24    "Separation From Service"   shall be determined to have occurred on the date on which an Eligible Executive incurs a  separation from service  within the meaning of Code Section 409A. 

2.25    "SERP Select Benefits"   means the benefits described in Section 4.02. 
    
  2.26    "Specified Employee "   means an employee of the Company who is a "Key Employee" as defined in Code Section 416(i)(1)(A)(i), (ii) or (iii), applied in accordance with the regulations thereunder and disregarding Subsection 416(i)(5).  A Specified Employee shall be identified as of December 31st of each calendar year and such identification shall apply to any Specified Employee who shall incur a Separation From Service in the 12-month period commencing April 1st of the immediately succeeding calendar year.  An employee who is determined to be a Specified Employee shall remain a Specified Employee throughout such 12-month period regardless of whether the employee meets the definition of "Specified Employee" on the date the employee incurs a Separation From Service.  This provision is effective for Specified Employees who incur a Separation From Service on or after January 1, 2005.  For purposes of determining Specified Employees, the definition of compensation under Treasury Regulation Section 1.415(c)-2(d)(3) shall be used, applied without the use of any of the special timing rules provided in Treasury Regulation Section 1.415(c)-2(e) or the special rule in Treasury Regulation Section 1.415(c)-2(g)(5)(i), but applied with the use of the special rule in Treasury Regulation Section 1.415(c)-2(g)(5)(ii). 
       
  2.27    "Subsidiary"   shall mean, as applied with respect to any person or legal entity specified, (i) a person or legal entity with a majority of the voting stock of which is owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the person or legal entity specified or (ii) any other type of business organization in which the person or legal entity specified owns or controls, directly or indirectly, a majority interest. 
    
  2.28    "Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan"   or   "SERP"   means the Ford Motor Company Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as it may be amended. 
    
    Section 3.  Agreement to Participate 
    
  Effective Agreement  .  To participate in the Plan, an Eligible Employee must submit to the Company a completed and signed agreement prior to receiving such Select Benefits.  The Company shall provide the applicable form agreement for this purpose and no other agreement form shall be used for this purpose. 
    
  Revocation of Agreements  .  An Eligible Executive may revoke an agreement provided in accordance with Section 3.01 by giving written notice to the Company no later than seven (7) days after the date on which the Eligible Executive submitted a signed agreement to the Company in accordance with Section 3.01.  The Company shall provide a revocation form for this purpose and no other revocation or form shall be used for this purpose. 
    
  Section 4.  Calculation of Select Benefits.     
    
  4.01        GRP Select Benefits.    The GRP Select Benefit payable to a Retired Executive shall be a monthly benefit in an amount equal to the difference between (X) and (Y) where (X) is the monthly GRP benefit for such Retired Executive, determined under the terms of the GRP in effect as of the Retirement Effective Date after giving effect to the following adjustments:  
    
  Add three years to the Retired Executive's attained age as of the Retirement Effective Date only for the purpose of determining the applicable early retirement reduction factors set forth in Appendix G to the GRP and three years to the Retired Executive's years of Contributory Service as of the Retirement Effective Date, without the requirement of employee contributions; and  
    
  Final Average Monthly Salary for a Retired  Executive under the terms of this Plan shall be determined as if the Retired Executive had been a Contributing member and received Contributory Service for three additional years after the Retirement Effective Date at the Retired Executive's Salary in effect as of the date immediately preceding the Retirement Effective Date; 

and (Y) is the monthly GRP benefit for such Retired Executive determined under the terms of the GRP in effect as of the Retirement Effective Date, regardless of whether an application for GRP benefits has been submitted or actual GRP benefit payments to the Retired Executive have commenced or been paid in full in a lump sum payment. 
    
  The GRP Select Benefit determined as of the Retirement Effective Date shall be an amount equal to at least a fifteen percent (15%) improvement to the monthly GRP benefit determined as provided above for such Retired Executive under the terms of the GRP in effect as of the Retirement Effective Date.  If the Retired Executive's benefit under the GRP is redetermined at Age 62 and One Month, the GRP Select Benefit shall be redetermined and adjusted such that the GRP Select Benefit shall be an amount equal to at least a fifteen percent (15%) improvement to the GRP benefit redetermined under the terms of the GRP then in effect as of the redetermination date.  
      
  For purposes of determining the amount of a Retired Executive's GRP Select Benefit, the Retired Executive shall be treated as if the Retired Executive elected to receive a GRP benefit in the form of the qualified joint and survivor annuity benefit under the GRP if married, or the single life annuity form of benefit under the GRP if unmarried (including, a divorced or widowed Retired Executive).  The amount of any GRP Select Benefit payable to a Retired Executive whose benefit under the ESAP is not offset or reduced by the amount of any GRP benefit payable to such Retired Executive prior to age 65 shall be increased upon the Retired Executive's attainment of age 65 to reflect an unreduced normal retirement benefit under the GRP.   
    
    4.02        SERP Select Benefits.    The SERP Select Benefit applicable to a Retired Executive who is otherwise eligible, or who becomes eligible, for a SERP benefit under the terms of the SERP in effect as of the Retirement Effective Date shall be an amount equal to the difference between (X) and (Y) where (X) is the SERP benefit determined under the terms of the SERP after giving effect to the following adjustments: 
    
  Add three years to the Retired Executive's attained age as of the Retirement Effective Date and three years of Credited Service to the Retired Executive's years of Credited Service as of the Retirement Effective Date; and 
    
  The Final Five Year Average Base Salary for a Retired Executive receiving Credited Service immediately preceding such Retired Executive's Retirement Effective Date under the terms of this Plan shall be determined as if the Retired Executive had continued to receive Credited Service for three additional years after the Retirement Effective Date at the Retired Executive's Monthly Base Salary; 
        
  and (Y) is the SERP benefit determined under the terms of the SERP in effect as of the Retirement Effective Date. 
    
  The SERP Select Benefit determined as of the Retirement Effective Date shall be an amount equal to at least a fifteen percent (15%) improvement to the SERP benefit determined under the terms of the SERP in effect as of the Retirement Effective Date.  
                   
    4.03        ESAP Select Benefits.    The ESAP Select Benefit applicable to a Retired Executive who is otherwise eligible, or who becomes eligible, for an ESAP benefit under the terms of the ESAP in effect as of the Retirement Effective Date shall be an amount equal to the difference between (X) and (Y) where (X) is the ESAP benefit determined under the terms of the ESAP in effect as of the Retirement Effective Date after giving effect to the following adjustments:  
       
  Add three years to the Retired Executive's attained age as of the Retirement Effective Date; and  
    
  Add three years of service to the Retired Executive's years of service as of the Retirement Effective Date; 

and (Y) is the ESAP benefit calculated under the terms of the ESAP in effect as of the Retirement Effective Date. 
    
  The ESAP Select Benefit determined as of the Retirement Effective Date shall be an amount equal to at least a fifteen percent (15%) improvement to the ESAP benefit determined under the terms of the ESAP in effect as of the Retirement Effective Date. 
                  
  The amount of any ESAP Select Benefit determined for any Leadership Level 1 or 2 employee (or such employee's Eligible Surviving Spouse) shall be reduced by any GRP Select Benefit determined for such Leadership Level 1 or 2 employee (or such employee's Eligible Surviving Spouse). 
    
  4.04        DEP Select Benefits.    The DEP Select Benefit applicable to a Retired Executive who is otherwise eligible for a DEP benefit under the terms of the DEP in effect as of the Retirement Effective Date, shall be an amount equal to the difference between (X) and (Y) where (X) is the DEP benefit determined under the terms of the DEP after adjusting Final Average Monthly Salary as if the Retired Executive had been a Contributing member and received Contributory Service for three additional years after the Retirement Effective Date at the Retired Executive's Salary and (Y) is the DEP benefit determined under the terms of the DEP in effect as of the Retirement Effective Date. 
    
  4.05        Special Select Benefits.    In addition to any other Select Benefits provided under this Plan, the Company may, in its sole discretion, provide special Select Benefits to certain Eligible Executives.  Special Select Benefits provided to Eligible Executives whose compensation is subject to the executive compensation disclosure rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 shall be set forth in Appendix A.  Special Select Benefits provided to Eligible Executives who are not subject to such disclosure rules shall be set forth in a separate confidential schedule to the Plan that is administered by the HR Director-Executive Personnel Office.  Any special Select Benefits provided pursuant to this Section shall be paid in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Plan, including without limitation Section 5. 
    
  Section 5.  Payment of Select Benefits.     
    
  5.01        Except as otherwise provided herein, payment of Select Benefits determined under Section 4 shall commence on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the first day of the month following the date on which the Eligible Executive has a Separation From Service. 
    
  5.02        Select Benefits shall be payable monthly from the Company's general funds. 
    
  5.03        Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, if a Specified Employee incurs a Separation From Service, other than as a result of such Specified Employee's death, payment of any Select Benefit to such Specified Employee shall commence on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the first day of the seventh month following such Specified Employee's Separation From Service, other than as a result of the Specified Employee's death.  Any Select Benefits to which a Specified Employee otherwise would have been entitled during the first six months following such Specified Employee's Separation From Service shall be accumulated and paid in a lump sum payment on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the first day of the seventh month following such Separation From Service.  Any payment delayed under this Section shall not bear interest. 
    
  5.04        Payments to a Retired Executive shall cease at the end of the month in which the Retired Executive dies.  Except as otherwise provided herein, survivor benefits, if any, payable with respect to any Select Benefits provided under this Plan shall be paid as follows: 
    
  (i)      GRP Select Benefits  .  Survivor benefits payable with respect to GRP Select Benefits shall be paid monthly to an Eligible Surviving Spouse as determined in accordance with Section 4.01.  GRP Select Benefits payable to a Retired Executive's Eligible Surviving Spouse shall commence as soon as reasonably practicable following the date of such Retired Executive's death, and continue until the death of the Eligible Surviving Spouse. 

(ii)      SERP Select Benefits  .  No survivor benefits are payable with respect to SERP Select Benefits. 
  (iv)      ESAP Select Benefits  .  In the event of death of a Retired Executive prior to attaining age 65, or in the event of death on or after January 1, 1981 of an Eligible Executive who (a) has not has a Separation From Service, (b) has at least five years of service at the Leadership Level One or Two, or its equivalent, has at least ten years of contributory membership in the GRP, and is at least age 55, ESAP Select Benefit payments shall be made to such Retired Executive's or Eligible Executive's, as applicable, Eligible Surviving Spouse, if any.  Such payments shall commence as soon as reasonably practicable following the date of such Retired Executive' s or Eligible Executive's death, and continue until the earlier of the death of such Eligible Surviving Spouse, or the end of the month in which such Retired Executive or Eligible Executive, as applicable, would have attained age 65. 
  (v)      DEP Select Benefits  .  Survivor benefits payable with respect to DEP Select Benefits shall be paid monthly to an Eligible Surviving Spouse as determined in accordance with Section 4.04.  DEP Select Benefits payable to a Retired Executive's Eligible Surviving Spouse shall commence as soon as reasonably practicable following the date of such Retired Executive's death, and continue until the death of the Eligible Surviving Spouse. 
    
    Section 6.  Reduction of Minimum Age Eligibility Requirement. 
    
    6.01        Authority to Reduce Minimum Age Eligibility.    The Executive Chairman of the Company shall have the authority, from time to time in such officer's sole and absolute discretion, to reduce the minimum age eligibility requirement specified in Section 2.09(i) of the Plan from age 55 to age 52.  
    
    6.02        Under Age 55 Select Benefits.    If an Eligible Executive becomes eligible to receive a Select Benefit under this Plan pursuant to Section 6.01, the Select Benefits payable to such Eligible Executive shall be determined as provided in Section 5 above as if the Eligible Executive were three years older and had met the age 55 minimum age eligibility requirement under Section 2.09(i).  For an Eligible Executive who becomes eligible to receive a GRP Select Benefit at age 52 in accordance with this Section, the GRP Select Benefit shall be payable exclusively under this Plan until such Eligible Executive reaches age 55.  When a benefit becomes payable to the Eligible Executive under the GRP, the amount of the GRP Select Benefits shall be reduced by the benefit amount payable from the GRP.  For an Eligible Executive who becomes eligible to receive a SERP Select Benefit and/or an ESAP Select Benefit at age 52 in accordance with this Section, the SERP Select Benefit and/or ESAP Select Benefit shall be payable exclusively under this Plan.  Select Benefits payable as a result of an Eligible Executive being selected to receive Select Benefits at age 52 in accordance with this Section are not an acceleration of benefits under this Plan in violation of Code Section 409A. 
    
    6.03        Subsidiary Retirement Plans.    If an Eligible Executive under age 55 would have become eligible for a regular early retirement benefit from a Subsidiary's retirement plan if the Eligible Executive had remained in Subsidiary employment until the minimum age or service eligibility requirements under such Subsidiary's plan were met, this Plan shall pay an additional benefit in an amount equal to the Subsidiary early retirement benefit that would have been paid if the minimum eligibility requirements had been met on the Retirement Effective Date.  The payment shall cease at such time as the regular early retirement benefit from the Subsidiary's plan becomes payable.  If the Subsidiary's plan shall pay only a deferred vested benefit at age 55, payment of any Select Benefit provided under this Plan to an Eligible Executive shall be reduced by the amount of the deferred vested or survivor's benefit payable under such Subsidiary plan.  Select Benefits provided under this Plan to an Eligible Executive shall cease upon the Eligible Executive's death.  Survivor benefits, if any, shall cease upon the Eligible Surviving Spouse's death.  The amounts payable pursuant to this paragraph shall be in addition to any other Select Benefits that otherwise may be payable under this Plan. 
    
    Section 7.  Application of ESAP and SERP Earning Out Provisions.    The earning out provisions of the ESAP and SERP, respectively, are hereby incorporated in full with respect to any ESAP Select Benefits and/or SERP Select Benefits payable under this Plan. 

Section 8.  General Provisions. 
    
    8.01        Plan Administration and Interpretation. 
    
           (i) 
    Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan to the contrary, the terms of the Plan shall determine the benefits payable to an Eligible Executive and no Eligible Executive shall be permitted to receive a benefit under the Plan that would be inconsistent with such terms. 
       
           (ii) 
    The Group Vice President - Human Resources and Corporate Services and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (or, in the event of a change in title, such officer's functional equivalent) shall have full power and authority on behalf of the Company to administer and interpret the Plan.  In the event of a change in a designated officer's title, the officer or officers with functional responsibility for the Retirement Plans shall have the power and authority to administer and interpret the Plan.  All decisions with respect to the administration and interpretation of the Plan shall be final and binding upon all persons. 
       
           (iii) 
    In the event that an Article, Section or paragraph of the Code, Treasury Regulations, GRP, ESAP or SERP is renumbered, such renumbered Article, Section or paragraph shall apply to applicable references in this Plan. 
       
    8.02        Local Payment Authorities.    The Vice President and Treasurer and the Assistant Treasurer (or, in the event of a change in title, such officer's functional equivalent) may act individually to delegate authority to administrative personnel to make benefit payments to employees in accordance with plan provisions. 
    
    8.03        Deductions.    The Company may deduct from any payment of Select Benefits to a Retired Executive or Eligible Surviving Spouse any and all amounts owed to it by such Retired Executive or Eligible Surviving Spouse for any reason, and all taxes required by law or government regulation to be deducted or withheld. 
    
    8.04        No Contract of Employment.    The Plan is an expression of the Company's present policy with respect to Eligible Executives.  It is not a part of any contract of employment.  No Eligible Executive, Retired Executive or any other person shall have any legal or other right to any Select Benefit. 
    
    8.05        No Company Reemployment.    A Retired Executive shall not be eligible for reemployment by the Company either directly or indirectly through an agency or otherwise.  This includes, but is not limited to, employment of a Retired Executive by the Company as a supplemental employee, independent contractor, consultant, advisor, or agency employee, regardless of the length of employment.  It also includes employment of a Retired Executive by a sole or single source supplier to the Company, or employment by any supplier of the Company if the responsibilities of the Retired Executive relate primarily to the Company's business with the supplier, and are not merely incidental to the performance of the Retired Executive's other job duties.   
    
  This re-employment prohibition may be waived if the proposed employment advances the strategic interests of the Company or is otherwise determined to be in the best interests of the Company provided that, under the waiver, the employment arrangement does not permit the Retired Executive to perform 50% or more of a full-time position and he/she receives less than 50% of any compensation earned during the final three full calendar years of employment (or if less, such lesser period).  Requests for reemployment of a Retired Executive may be reviewed by (i) for a Retired Executive employed at a Leadership Level of LL5 through LL3 prior to Separation From Service, the Director of Personnel Relations and Employee Policies (or, in the event of a change in title, such director's functional equivalent), or (ii) for a Retired Executive employed at a Leadership Level of LL2 or above prior to Separation From Service, the Director of Personnel Relations and Employee Policies, the Group Vice President, Human Resources   Corporate Services, and the Executive Personnel Committee (EPC) (or, in the event of a change in title or name, such officer's functional equivalent).  The Retired Executive shall furnish such information about the proposed reemployment as is reasonably requested to evaluate the request.  Said individuals and/or the EPC who are authorized to review requests for re-employment shall have sole and absolute discretion to  

determine whether the request for reemployment violates this provision and any such determination is final and binding on all parties and is not subject to further review. 
    
    In the event a Retired Executive becomes reemployed in violation of this Section without obtaining a waiver, the Company may take such action, other than suspending payment of Select Benefits, as is reasonably necessary, in the Company's sole discretion, to enforce the provisions of this Section.  Such action may include forfeiting a Retired Executive's Select Benefits, other than GRP Select Benefits, if the Retired Executive becomes employed by a sole or single source supplier to the Company, or employed by any supplier of the Company if the responsibilities of the Retired Executive relate primarily to the Company's business with the supplier, and are not merely incidental to the performance of the Retired Executive's other job duties, and the Retired Executive did not obtain a determination that such employment does not violate this Section or a wavier of the reemployment condition prior to commencing such employment. 
    
    Notwithstanding anything in this Section to the contrary, no determination or waiver shall permit reemployment if such reemployment would result in adverse tax consequences to the Retired Executive under Code Section 409A. 
    
    8.06        Select Benefits Not Funded.    The Company's obligations under this Plan are not funded.  Select Benefits under this Plan shall be payable only out of the general funds of the Company. 
    
  8.07        No Contract of Employment.    The Plan is an expression of the Company's present policy with respect to Eligible Executives; it is not a part of any contract of employment.  No Eligible Executive, Eligible Surviving Spouse, or any other person shall have any legal or other right to any benefit under this Plan. 
    
    8.08        Continuing Plan.    The Plan shall be an ongoing Plan and shall be made available at the discretion of the Company.  The Company may designate certain periods within a calendar year in which offers of Select Benefits may be made and may provide that no offers of Select Benefits may be accepted before or after designated dates within a calendar year.  The Company also may limit the offer of Select Benefits to those within a designated salary roll or band.  Select Benefits may be combined with additional types of termination incentives or separation programs upon the direction of the Company.  Provisions of such other termination incentives or separation programs are not governed by the terms of this Plan. 
    
    8.09        Governing Law.    Except as otherwise provided under federal law, the Plan and all rights thereunder shall be governed, construed and administered in accordance with the laws of the State of Michigan. 
    
    8.10        Amendment or Termination.    The Company reserves the right to modify or amend, in whole or in part, or to terminate this Plan, at any time without notice; provided, however, that no distribution of benefits shall occur upon termination of this Plan unless applicable requirements of Code Section 409A have been met. 
    
  8.11        Terms Not Otherwise Defined.    Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Plan shall have the same meanings ascribed to such terms under the applicable Retirement Plans.  
    
    Section 9.      Code Section 409A. 
    
  The provisions of Code Section 409A are incorporated into the Plan by reference to the extent necessary for any benefit provided under the Plan that is subject to Code Section 409A to comply with such requirements and, except as otherwise expressly determined by the Company, the Plan shall be administered in accordance with Code Section 409A as if the requirements of Code Section 409A were set forth herein.  The Company reserves the right to take such action, on a uniform and consistent basis, as the Company deems necessary or desirable to ensure compliance with Code Section 409A, and applicable additional regulatory guidance thereunder, or to achieve the goals of the Plan without having adverse tax consequences under this Plan for any employee or beneficiary.  Unless determined otherwise by the Company, any such action shall be taken in a manner that will enable any benefit provided under the Plan  

that is intended to be exempt from Code Section 409A to continue to be so exempt, or to enable any benefit provided under the Plan that is intended to comply with Code Section 409A to continue to so comply. 
    
  In no event shall any transfer of liabilities to or from this Plan result in an impermissible acceleration or deferral of Select Benefits under Code Section 409A. In the event such a transfer would cause an impermissible acceleration or deferral under Code Section 409A, such transfer shall not occur. 
    
  In no event will application of any eligibility requirements under this Plan cause an impermissible acceleration or deferral between any Plan benefits under Code Section 409A. 
    
  In the event a Retired Executive is reemployed following a Separation From Service, distribution of any Select Benefit shall not cease upon such Retired Executive's reemployment. 
  After receipt of Plan benefits, the obligations of the Company with respect to such benefits shall be satisfied and no Eligible Executive, Eligible Surviving Spouse, or beneficiary shall have any further claims against the Plan or the Company with respect to Plan benefits. 
    
    Section 10. Claim for Benefits 
    
  10.01        Denial of a Claim.    A claim for benefits under the Plan shall be submitted in writing to the plan administrator.  If a claim for benefits or participation is denied in whole or in part by the plan administrator, the Eligible Executive will receive written notification within a reasonable period from the date the claim for benefits or participation is received.  Such notice shall be deemed given upon mailing, full postage prepaid in the United States mail or on date sent electronically to the claimant.  If the plan administrator determines that an extension of time for processing is required, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the Eligible Executive as soon as practical.  
  10.02        Review of Denial of Claim  . In the event that the plan administrator denies a claim for benefits or participation, an Eligible Executive may request a review by filing a written appeal to the Group Vice President -Human Resources and Corporate Services and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (or, in the event of a change in title, such officer's functional equivalent), or such officer's designee(s), within sixty (60) days of receipt of the written notification of denial.  The appeal will be considered and a decision shall be rendered as soon as practical.  In the event a time extension is needed to consider the appeal and render the decision, written notice shall be provided to the Eligible Executive notifying them of such time extension.   
    
  10.03        Decision on Appeal.   The decision on review of the appeal shall be in writing. Such notice shall be deemed given upon mailing, full postage prepaid in the United States mail or on the date sent electronically to the Eligible Executive.  Decisions rendered on the appeal are final and conclusive and are only subject to the arbitrary and capricious standard of judicial review. 
    
  10.04        Limitations Period.    No legal action for benefits under the Plan may be brought against the Plan until after the claims and appeal procedures have been exhausted.  Legal actions under the Plan for benefits must be brought no later than two (2) years after the claim arises.  No other action may be brought against the Plan more than six (6) months after the claim arises. 

Appendix A 
  Special Select Benefits 
    
  Named Executive Officers 

Section 1.  Special Select Benefits Based on Notional Service and Salary.    Special Select Benefits will be provided to each Eligible Executive listed in Subsection 1.05 below for the period of time during which such Eligible Executive did not receive a cash base salary from the Company by determining the Select Benefits that otherwise would have been provided to such Eligible Executive for such period using notional service and salary as follows; provided that, in no event shall an Eligible Executive receive both Select Benefits and special Select Benefits for the same period of service: 
    
           1.01 
    Contributory Service.    Contributory Service, if any, for each such Eligible Executive for any period of time during which the Eligible Executive did not receive a cash base salary shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, based on the contributory service the Eligible Executive would have accrued had the Eligible Executive participated in the Ford Motor Company General Retirement Plan on a contributory basis during such period of time. 
       
           1.02 
    Credited Service.    Credited Service, if any, for each such Eligible Executive for any period of time during which the Eligible Executive did not receive a cash base salary shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, based on the service the Eligible Executive would have accrued had the Eligible Executive participated in, and accrued credited service under, the Ford Motor Company General Retirement Plan during such period of time. 
       
           1.03 
    Monthly Base Salary.    Monthly Base Salary for each such Eligible Executive shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, based on a notional monthly base salary for the period of time during which the Eligible Executive did not receive a cash base salary. 
       
           1.04 
    Final Average Monthly Salary.    Final Average Monthly Salary for each such Eligible Executive shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, based on a notional monthly base salary for the period of time during which the Eligible Executive did not receive a cash base salary. 
       
           1.05 
    Affected Eligible Executives.    The following Eligible Executives' special Select Benefits shall be determined in accordance with this Section: 
       
  William Clay Ford, Jr. 

</EX-10.L>

<EX-10.N-4>
 7
 f123112exhibit10-nx4.htm
 EXHIBIT

F 12.31.12 Exhibit 10-N-4 

Exhibit 10-N-4 

Annual Incentive Compensation Plan Metrics for 2013 

On February 13, 2013, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company approved the specific performance goals and business criteria to be used for purposes of determining any future cash awards for 2013 for participants, including executive officers, under the Company's shareholder-approved Annual Incentive Compensation Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008).  The Corporate performance criteria and weightings to be used for 2013 under the plan include attaining specified levels of: 

Automotive operating-related cash flow* (35%), 

Based on business performance results for 2013 against the targeted levels established for each metric, the Compensation Committee will determine the percentage of the target award that is earned, which could range between 0% and 200% depending on actual performance achieved relative to the target levels.   
    
  * Excludes special items 

</EX-10.N-4>

<EX-10.N-9>
 8
 f12312012exhibit10-nx9.htm
 EXHIBIT

F 12.31.2012 Exhibit 10-N-9 

Exhibit 10-N-9 

Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Award Metrics for 2013 

On February 13, 2013, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company approved the specific performance goals and business criteria to be used for purposes of determining any future performance-based restricted stock unit final awards for the 2013 performance-year for participants, including executive officers, under the Company's shareholder-approved 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008).   
    
  For all participants, the Corporate performance criteria to be used for 2013 under the plan include attaining specified levels of: 

Automotive operating-related cash flow* (35%), 

Based on business performance results for 2013 against the targeted levels established for each metric, the Compensation Committee will determine the percentage of the target award that is earned, which could range between 0% and 100% depending on actual performance achieved relative to the target levels.   
    
  * Excludes special items 

</EX-10.N-9>

<EX-10.V-4>
 9
 f12312012exhibit10-vx4.htm
 EXHIBIT

F 12.31.2012 Exhibit 10-V-4 

Exhibit 10-V-4 
    
  Form of Alan Mulally Agreement Amendment dated February 13, 2013  

Inter Office 

Group Vice President Human Resources   Corporate Services 

February 13, 2013 
  To:        Alan R. Mulally 
    
  Subject:         Retirement/Termination Agreement 
    
  Dear Alan,  
    
  This letter is to confirm our mutual understanding of the retirement/termination provisions in your employment offer letter, as well as to detail a new agreement.   
    
  Original Agreement 
  Your hiring agreement provided "for benefits and pension plan purposes, you will be credited four (4) additional years of service for every year of actual service."  As a result, upon completion of one year of employment, your benefits under the applicable retirement plans were vested. 
    
  Based on your agreement and date of hire, you are eligible to participate in following Company retirement plans: 
             
    Ford Retirement Plan   (FRP), a tax-qualified defined contribution plan to which the Company contributes a percentage of your annual base salary (based on your age)  
                
    Benefit Equalization Plan   (BEP), an unfunded, non-qualified plan to which the Company makes contributions that would have been made for the FRP but for limits under the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) 
       
  New Agreement 
  In consideration of your services rendered to the Company, the Company will provide you with a lump-sum cash payment upon termination of employment*, provided such termination is not for cause. The lump-sum amount shall be determined on the following basis: 
             
    Provide an additional pre-tax value equal to four times the amount of the Company's contributions to your FRP and FRP-BEP accounts for each year of service from hire through termination, pro-rated to the last day of the month of your termination 
                
    To be paid on, or as soon as reasonably practicable after, the first day of the seventh month after termination of employment* in compliance with IRC  409A 
       
  Due to the benefits provided under this agreement, you will not be eligible to participate in the proposed Defined Contribution Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, effective 1/1/2013. 
    
  Please indicate your acceptance of this new agreement by signing below and returning the original to my office.   Thank you. 
    
  /s/ Felicia Fields 
  Felicia J. Fields 
  Acknowledgement: 
    
  /s/ Alan Mulally            2/15/2013 
  Alan R. Mulally               Date 
    
  *For purposes of this agreement, termination of employment shall be determined to have occurred on the date on which you incur a "separation from service" within the meaning of IRC  409A. 

</EX-10.V-4>

<EX-10.W>
 10
 f12312012exhibit10-w.htm
 EXHIBIT

F 12.31.2012 Exhibit 10-W 

Exhibit 10-W 
    
  Accession Agreement between Ford Motor Company and  
  James D. Farley, Jr. as of October 9, 2007 

Joe W. Laymon 
  Group Vice President  
  Corporate Human Resources and Labor Affairs 

October 3, 2007 
  Mr. James Farley 
  518 10   th    Street 
  Santa Monica, CA   90402 
    
  Dear Jim, 
    
  I am pleased to offer you the position of Group Vice President, Chief Marketing and Communications Officer of Ford Motor Company, an at-will Leadership Level 1 position, reporting to Alan Mulally, President   Chief Executive Officer, subject to the approval of the Board of Directors.  We believe you will be an excellent addition to our senior leadership team.  The main features of our offer are detailed below. 
    
  Compensation 
             
    An annual base salary of $700,000 payable according to Ford's regular payroll practices. 

A signing bonus of $1,500,000.      This amount will be paid in cash within two weeks after your effective date of hire.  The payment may be deferred, in whole or part, into our Deferred Compensation Plan as long as you declare your election prior to your effective date of hire or within 30 days of the acceptance of this offer, whichever comes first.  If you voluntarily leave Ford Motor Company within two years of your date of hire or if you are discharged 'for Cause' within that period, the entire signing bonus must be repaid in full to the Company within two weeks of your departure.    

An initial stock grant valued at $1,000,000.      This grant will be made in the form of 50% stock options and 50% time-vested restricted stock units.      The quantity of stock options and restricted stock units will be determined by     the Fair Market Value (FMV) of Ford Common Stock using the average of high and low prices for Ford Motor Company Common Stock (trading the regular way on the NYSE) on November 15, 2007 which will be the grant date for these stock awards (assuming your effective date of hire is prior to this date).  The stock options will be non-qualified stock options that vest over a three-year period-33% would vest one year from grant date, another 33% two years from the grant date, and the remaining 34% three years from the grant date.  The options would have a ten-year term and be subject to the terms and provisions of the Company's Long Term Incentive Plan.  The restricted stock units will vest over a three-year period, similar to the stock options, and are also subject to the terms and conditions of the Company's Long Term Incentive Plan. 

As a member of the leadership team, you are eligible to participate in the Company's shareholder-approved Annual Incentive Compensation Plan (AICP).  The final AICP award is dependent on Company performance and may be adjusted by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors based on your individual performance.  Your annual incentive (bonus) target will be $630,000 (equivalent to 90% of your base salary) for performance years 2007 and 2008.      You are guaranteed full payment of the 2007 and 2008 AICP targets which will be paid in March 2008 and March 2009 respectively. 

You will be eligible to receive annual grants of stock options and performance-based restricted stock units (usually granted in March of each year) comparable to other Officers at your level, with the actual quantity determined by the Compensation Committee. 

Retirement 
  Upon your hire, you will be eligible to participate in the Company's primary retirement plan, the Ford Retirement Plan (FRP) and the associated Benefit Equalization Plan (BEP).  Additionally, you will be eligible to participate in Company-sponsored savings plan and any supplemental executive separation programs available to other similarly situated executives. Under the FRP, the Company will periodically contribute a percentage of your base annual salary (based on your age) into a tax-qualified defined contribution plan.  Where limited under the Tax Code, the FRP section of the BEP (an unfunded non-qualified plan) will be credited with contributions as if under the FRP.  Under each Plan, you will have the ability to determine and manage your investment elections.  Vesting under the FRP is at the third anniversary of your date of hire.  Your participation in each Plan will be subject to its terms and conditions.  For further information, please feel welcome to ask me for any Plan's summary description.   
    
  In consideration of the value of the retirement benefits that you may forfeit by leaving your present employer, the Company will provide you with a series of lump-sum cash payments designed to make-up the forfeited benefit amount.  The lump-sum amounts shall be determined on the following basis, less any retirement benefit otherwise payable by your present employer or the Company (including assumed investment returns): 
             
    Two identical lump-sum amounts, while on the active employment roll, payable on the 1st of the month you become age 50 and age 55, designed to provide equivalent value as if you had met your present employer's eligibility requirements for early retirement; and, 
                
    Additional lump-sum amounts, while on the active employment roll, payable on the 1st of the month you become age 58, 60 and 62, designed to provide the additional years of benefit accrual forfeit as an early retiree under your present employer's retirement plans. 
       
  We understand the following terms apply to your present arrangement and will be used in the lump-sum determination unless you or plan documentation advise to the contrary: 
             
    Age 55 early retirement eligibility 
                
    Pension Earnings pay: base plus 100% bonus 
                
    Salary/bonus increase: 4.5% per year 
                
    SERP: 2% final average base/bonus (less offsets) times years of service (maximum 30 years)  
                
    50% joint and survivor coverage 
                
    5% early retirement reduction from age 62 
       
  We may request additional information regarding your present employer's plan design or statements of your rights under the plans. 
    
  Health Care 
  You will have immediate eligibility for yourself and your eligible family members for the Ford Medical Plan-PPO.  This health care and prescription drug coverage is effective on your date of hire at no cost to you, except for applicable deductibles and co-payments.  You will become eligible to elect different health care coverage through the Ford Flex benefit program on the first day of the fourth month following your date of hire.  Other health care coverage may include additional out-of-pocket costs. 
    
  In addition to the above coverage, you may choose to maintain your present employer's health care coverage through COBRA for the time period allowed by law.  If you do choose to continue that health care under COBRA, the Company will pay you $15,000 to defer the costs of that coverage.  The payment will be made upon verification from you that you have elected COBRA coverage and the payment will be included in your signing bonus check. 
    
  Relocation 
  You will be eligible for relocation assistance under the Company Relocation Policy.  This includes home sale, house-hunting trip(s), relocation assistance, and home purchase assistance on your primary residence in Michigan.  If you choose to live in temporary housing in Southeast Michigan for the first year of your employment, we will reimburse you for the costs of temporary living and at the end of that period, when you relocate your household, you would be eligible for relocation assistance under the Company program.  Anticipated costs incurred for flights made during a temporary housing arrangement are included in your signing bonus.   
    
  Life Insurance 
  You will be eligible for life insurance in the amount of three times your base salary.  You also will have the opportunity to purchase up to an additional five time base salary at a cost of approximately $200/month. 

Country Club Membership 
  The Company does not offer country club memberships.  In light of your existing club membership, the Company will reimburse you the cost of the initiation fee upon verification from you that you have repaid it.   
    
  Additional Benefits Information 
  For benefits and pension plan purposes, you will be credited four (4) additional years of service for every year of actual service.  You were previously provided a summary of the broader range of compensation and benefits related to this offer.  Items described in this letter and that benefits summary, are subject to the terms, conditions and requirements of our existing benefit or pension plans and programs.  The terms of the benefit or pension plans may be amended or terminated from time-to-time in the future.  
    
  Severance Pay 
  In the event that the Company terminates your employment for any reason other than 'for Cause' during the first two years of your employment, the Company will pay you the equivalent of two years base salary plus the equivalent of two years of your annual incentive target as a separation payment.  Should you leave Ford under these circumstances and receive this separation payment, it is made on the condition that you do not join or otherwise perform work for a competitor for two years after the date of your termination and also sign and deliver an acceptable general claims release.   

For the purposes of this offer letter, the term 'for Cause' is described as: 
  (a) any material act of dishonesty or knowing and willful breach of fiduciary duty on your part which is intended to result in your personal enrichment or gain at the expense of Ford or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries; or (b) your commission of any felony, or any misdemeanor (or securities law violation) involving moral turpitude or unlawful, dishonest, or unethical conduct that a reasonable person would consider damaging to the reputation or image of Ford or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries; or (c) any material violation of the published standards of conduct applicable to Officers or executives of Ford or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries that warrants termination; or (d) insubordination or refusal to perform assigned duties or to comply with the lawful directions of your superiors; or (e) any deliberate, willful or intentional act that causes substantial harm, loss or injury to Ford or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries.  
    
  Tax Consequences and Possible Delays in Payment to Avoid Penalties 
  You are solely responsible and liable for all taxes that may arise in connection with the compensation and benefits that you receive from Ford.   This includes any tax arising under the newly-enacted Section 409A of the Code.  Ford may, however, delay any payment to you by up to six months and a day following termination, to the extent Ford reasonably determines that the delay is necessary or appropriate to avoid a violation of Section 409A.  Please consult your personal financial or tax advisor about the tax consequences of your compensation and benefits.  No one at Ford is authorized to provide this advice to you. 
    
  Conditions on Our Offer 
  This offer of at-will employment is subject to the following conditions.  First, you must successfully complete a drug screen test.  Second, you must provide a completed Health History Form.  Third, you must produce valid proof of identification and acceptable evidence that you are authorized to work in the United States.  Fourth, you must sign our standard Trade Secrets/Non-Compete Agreement.  Fifth, we must determine, to our satisfaction, that information provided by you in your job application or resume is valid.  Sixth, you must sign the documents we require all workers to execute before they start work.  Seventh, you must establish to Ford's reasonable satisfaction that your commencement of employment with Ford will not violate any agreement (such as a non-competition agreement) between you and any prior employer. 
    
  This offer remains in effect until October 19, 2007.  We anticipate that your effective date of hire will be the day following your acceptance of this offer, with the understanding that your first day in the office is likely to be     November 12, 2007.  Upon acceptance of this offer, please plan to provide proof of identification (e.g., passport, driver's license or other documentation with a photo or physical description) and proof of the ability to work in the Unites States (e.g., visa, work permit, etc.) when you report for your first day of work.  Michigan law will, of course, control all issues arising under this offer.  

Jim,     we are pleased to offer you this opportunity to join the Ford team and look forward to your favorable response. 
    
  Sincerely,  
    
  /s/ Joe Laymon 
  Joe Laymon 

I have read the foregoing offer of at-will employment.  I agree with, and accept, this offer of employment subject to the terms and conditions detailed above. 

Signed: 
    /s/ James D. Farley, Jr. 
    Date: 
    10/9/2007 

</EX-10.W>

<EX-10.W-1>
 11
 f12312012exhibit10-wx1.htm
 EXHIBIT

F 12.31.2012 Exhibit 10-W-1 

Exhibit 10-W-1 
    
  Form of James D. Farley, Jr.  Agreement Amendment,  
  effective as of October 12, 2008 

Inter Office 

Group Vice President Human Resources   Corporate Services 

To:        Jim Farley 
    
  Subject:    Retirement Provisions in Employment Agreement 
    
  This letter and its attachments are to confirm our mutual understanding of the retirement provisions in your employment offer letter.  As you will recall from your employment offer letter, there was an agreement to: 
             
    provide you a series of lump-sum cash payments designed to replace the value of the retirement benefits you forfeited at Toyota, offset by your Toyota deferred vested benefit and your Ford Retirement Plan benefit. 
                
    the payments would be made as long as you are on Ford active employment rolls at the specified payment dates. 
                
    the payment amounts would be based on information you provided from Toyota regarding your earnings, vested benefits, and other pertinent documentation. 
       
  Based on recent discussions between you and the Directors' of Benefits and Compensation, it is our mutual understanding that you will receive two equal lump sum payments of $1,695,000 each, payable on the first of the month you become age 50 and age 55.   
    
  These payments, including assumed investment returns (see attachments for detailed calculations), will make you whole for $4,185,000 at age 55 (pre-tax), which is the actuarial estimate of what you forfeited at Toyota. 
    
  Please indicate your agreement to this understanding by signing below and returning the original to my office.  Thank you. 

/s/ Felicia J. Fields 

Acknowledgement: 

/s/ James D. Farley, Jr.              10/12/2008 
  James D. Farley          Date 

</EX-10.W-1>

<EX-12>
 12
 f12312012exhibit12.htm
 EXHIBIT

F 12.31.2012 Exhibit 12 

Exhibit 12 

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CALCULATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 
  (in millions) 

__________ 
  (a)    One-third of all rental expense is deemed to be interest. 
  (b)    Earnings/(Losses) were inadequate to cover fixed interest charges in 2008 by $14.9 billion.     

</EX-12>

<EX-18>
 13
 f12312012exhibit18.htm
 EXHIBIT

F 12.31.2012 Exhibit 18 

Exhibit 18 
    
  Letter of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP,  
  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, 
  regarding Change in Accounting Principle  
    
  February 18, 2013 

Board of Directors 
  Ford Motor Company 
  1 American Road 
  Dearborn, MI 48126 
    
  Dear Directors: 
    
  We are providing this letter to you for inclusion as an exhibit to your Form 10-K filing pursuant to Item 601 of Regulation S-K. 
    
  We have audited the consolidated financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 and issued our report thereon dated February 18, 2013.  Note 16     to the financial statements describes a change in accounting principle associated with settlements of pension or other postretirement benefit obligations.  It should be understood that the preferability of one acceptable method of accounting over another for settlements of pension and other postretirement benefit obligations has not been addressed in any authoritative accounting literature, and in expressing our concurrence below we have relied on management's determination that this change in accounting principle is preferable.  Based on our reading of management's stated reasons and justification for this change in accounting principle in the Form 10-K, and our discussions with management as to their judgment about the relevant business planning factors relating to the change, we concur with management that such change represents, in the Company's circumstances, the adoption of a preferable accounting principle in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification 250,   Accounting Changes and Error Corrections  . 
    
  Very truly yours, 
    
  /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
    
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
  Detroit, Michigan 

</EX-18>

<EX-21>
 14
 f12312012exhibit21.htm
 EXHIBIT

F 12.31.2012 Exhibit 21 

Exhibit 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF FORD MOTOR COMPANY AS OF FEBRUARY 11, 2013* 

Organization 
      
    Jurisdiction 
      Ford Asia Pacific Automotive Holdings Ltd. 
      
    Mauritius 
      Ford Capital B.V. 
      
    The Netherlands 
        
    Ford Motor Company (Belgium) N.V. 
      
    Belgium 
        
    Ford Nederland B.V. 
      
    The Netherlands 
      Ford Component Sales, L.L.C. 
      
    Delaware, U.S.A. 
      Ford Espana S.L. 
      
    Spain 
        
    Ford Italia S.p.A. 
      
    Italy 
        
    Groupe FMC France SAS 
      
    France 

FMC Automobiles SAS 
      
    France 
      Ford European Holdings LLC 
      
    Delaware, U.S.A. 
        
    Ford Deutschland Holding GmbH 
      
    Germany 

Ford-Werke GmbH 
      
    Germany 

Ford Motor Company (Austria) GmbH 
      
    Austria 
      Ford Global Technologies, LLC 
      
    Delaware, U.S.A. 
        
    Ford VHC AB 
      
    Sweden 

Ford Argentina S.C.A. 
      
    Argentina 

Ford Motor Company Brasil Ltda. 
      
    Brazil 

Ford Motor de Venezuela, S.A. 
      
    Venezuela 
      Ford Global Treasury, Inc. 
      
    Delaware, U.S.A. 
      Ford Holdings LLC 
      
    Delaware, U.S.A. 
        
    Ford Motor Credit Company LLC 
      
    Delaware, U.S.A. 

Ford Automotive Finance (China) Limited 
      
    China 

Ford Credit International, Inc. 
      
    Delaware, U.S.A. 

FCE Bank plc 
      
    England 

Ford Credit Canada Limited 
      
    Canada 

Canadian Road Holdings Company 
      
    Canada 

Canadian Road Leasing Company 
      
    Canada 
        
    Ford Motor Land Development Corporation 
      
    Delaware, U.S.A. 
      Ford India Private Limited 
      
    India 
      Ford International Capital LLC 
      
    Delaware, U.S.A. 
        
    Blue Oval Holdings 
      
    England 

Ford International Liquidity Management Limited 
      
    England 

Ford Motor Company Limited 
      
    England 

Ford Retail Group Limited 
      
    England 
        
    Ford Sales   Service (Thailand) Co., Ltd. 
      
    Thailand 

SUBSIDIARIES   (Continued) 

Organization 
      
    Jurisdiction 
           Ford Investment Partnership 
      
    Michigan, U.S.A. 
           Ford Mexico Holdings, Inc. 
      
    Delaware, U.S.A. 
             
    Ford Motor Mexicana, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
      
    Mexico 

Ford Motor Company, S.A. de C.V. 
      
    Mexico 
           Ford Motor (China) Ltd. 
    China 
           Ford Motor Company of Australia Limited 
      
    Australia 
           Ford Motor Company of Canada, Limited 
      
    Ontario, Canada 
             
    FLH Holding, Inc. 
      
    Ontario, Canada 

Ford Lio Ho Motor Company Ltd. 
      
    Taiwan 
           Ford Motor Company of Southern Africa (Pty) Limited 
      
    South Africa 
           Ford Motor Company (Switzerland) S.A. 
      
    Switzerland 
           Ford Motor Service Company 
      
    Michigan, U.S.A. 
           Ford Trading Company, LLC 
      
    Delaware, U.S.A. 
           Volvo Car Holding Germany GmbH 
      
    Germany 
             
    Volvo Auto Bank Deutschland GmbH 
      
    Germany 

130 

Other U.S. Subsidiaries 

160 

Other Non-U.S. Subsidiaries 

*  Subsidiaries are not shown by name in the above list if, considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, they would not constitute a significant subsidiary. 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 15
 f12312012exhibit23.htm
 EXHIBIT

F 12.31.2012 Exhibit 23 

Exhibit 23 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Ford Motor Company Registration Statement Nos.     33-39402, 33-54348, 33-55847, 33-62227, 333-02735, 333-20725, 333-31466, 333-46295, 333-47733, 333-56660, 333-57596, 333-58697, 333-65703, 333-71380, 333-74313, 333-85138, 333-87619, 333-104063, 333-113584, 333-123251, 333-138819, 333-138821, 333-149453, 333-149456, 333-153815, 333-153816, 333-156630, 333-156631, 333-157584, 333-162992, 333-162993, 333-165100, 333-172491, and 333-179624 on Form S-8 and 333-174150 on Form S-3.  

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the aforementioned Registration Statements of Ford Motor Company of our report dated   February 18, 2013   relating to the financial statements, financial statement schedule and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K. 

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
    
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
  Detroit, Michigan 
  February 18, 2013    

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 16
 f12312012ex24.htm
 EXHIBIT

F 12.31.2012 Ex 24 

Exhibit 24 
    
  FORD MOTOR COMPANY 
    
  Certificate of Secretary 
    
  The undersigned, Bradley M. Gayton, Secretary of Ford Motor Company, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY that the following resolutions were adopted at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Company duly called and held on February 18, 2013 and that the same are in full force and effect: 
    
  WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Alan Mulally, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and Bob Shanks, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, each will execute certifications with respect to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 ("Form 10-K Report"), which certifications are to be set forth in the Form 10-K Report; and 
    
  WHEREAS, such certifications are made, in part, on reliance of the assurances given by the Company's Disclosure Committee, co-chaired by David G. Leitch, Group Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, and Stuart Rowley, Vice President and Controller of the Company, which committee oversees the preparation of the Company s annual and quarterly reports. 
    
  NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT: 
    
  RESOLVED, That the draft Form 10-K Report presented to this meeting to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, be and hereby is in all respects authorized and approved; that the directors and appropriate officers of the Company, and each of them, be and hereby are authorized to sign and execute in their own behalf, or in the name and on behalf of the Company, or both, as the case may be, the Form 10-K Report, and any and all amendments thereto, with such changes therein as such directors or officers may deem necessary, appropriate or desirable, as conclusively evidenced by their execution thereof; and that the appropriate officers of the Company, and each of them, be and hereby are authorized to cause the Form 10-K Report and any such amendments, so executed, to be filed with the Commission. 
    
  RESOLVED, That each officer and director who may be required to sign and execute the Form 10-K Report or any amendment thereto or document in connection therewith (whether in the name and on behalf of the Company, or as an officer or director of the Company, or otherwise), be and hereby is authorized to execute a power of attorney appointing S. J. Rowley, D. G. Leitch, B. M. Gayton, L. J. Ghilardi and R. Z. Richmond, and each of them, severally, his or her true and lawful attorney or attorneys to sign in his or her name, place, and stead in any such capacity the Form 10-K Report and any and all amendments thereto and documents in connection therewith, and to file the same with the Commission, each of said attorneys to have power to act with or without the other, and to have full power and authority to do and perform in the name and on behalf of each of said officers and directors who shall have executed such power of attorney, every act whatsoever which such attorneys, or any of them, may deem necessary, appropriate or desirable to be done in connection therewith as fully and to all intents and purposes as such officers or directors might or could do in person. 
    
  WITNESS my hand as of this 18   th    day of February, 2013. 
    
               /s/ Bradley M. Gayton 
      Bradley M. Gayton 
      Secretary 

(SEAL) 

Exhibit 24   (Continued) 
  POWER OF ATTORNEY WITH RESPECT TO 
  ANNUAL REPORT OF FORD MOTOR COMPANY ON 
  FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2012 
    
  Each of the undersigned, a director or officer of Ford Motor Company ("Ford"), appoints each of S. J. Rowley, D. G. Leitch, B. M. Gayton, L. J. Ghilardi and R. Z. Richmond his or her true and lawful attorney and agent to do any and all acts and things and execute any and all instruments which the attorney and agent may deem necessary or advisable in order to enable Ford to comply with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and any requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, in connection with the filing of Ford's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 and any and all amendments thereto, as authorized at a meeting of the Board of Directors of Ford duly called and held on February 18, 2013 including, but not limited to, power and authority to sign his or her name (whether on behalf of Ford, or as a director or officer of Ford, or by attesting the seal of Ford, or otherwise) to such instruments and to such Annual Report and any amendments thereto, and to file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Each of the undersigned ratifies and confirms all that any of the attorneys and agents shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  Any one of the attorneys and agents shall have, and may exercise, all the powers conferred by this instrument.  Each of the undersigned has signed his or her name as of the 18   th    day of February, 2013: 
    
                   /s/ William Clay Ford, Jr. 
      
    /s/ Jon M. Huntsman, Jr. 
      (William Clay Ford, Jr.) 
      
    (Jon M. Huntsman, Jr.) 

/s/ Stephen G. Butler 
      
    /s/ Richard A. Manoogian 
      (Stephen G. Butler) 
      
    (Richard A. Manoogian) 

/s/ Kimberly A. Casiano 
      
    /s/ Ellen R. Marram 
      (Kimberly A. Casiano) 
      
    (Ellen R. Marram) 

/s/ Anthony F. Earley, Jr. 
      
    /s/ Alan Mulally 
      (Anthony F. Earley, Jr.) 
      
    (Alan Mulally) 

/s/ Edsel B. Ford II 
      
    /s/ Homer A. Neal 
      (Edsel B. Ford II) 
      
    (Homer A. Neal) 

/s/ Richard A. Gephardt 
      
    /s/ Gerald L. Shaheen 
      (Richard A. Gephardt) 
      
    (Gerald L. Shaheen) 

/s/ James H. Hance, Jr. 
      
    /s/ John L. Thornton 
      (James H. Hance, Jr.) 
      
    (John L. Thornton) 

/s/ William W. Helman IV 
      
    /s/ Bob Shanks 
      (William W. Helman IV) 
      
    (Bob Shanks) 

/s/ Irvine O. Hockaday, Jr. 
      
    /s/ Stuart Rowley 
      (Irvine O. Hockaday, Jr.) 
      
    (Stuart Rowley) 

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 17
 f12312012ex311.htm
 EXHIBIT

F 12.31.2012 Ex 31.1 

Exhibit 31.1 
    
  CERTIFICATION 
    
  I, Alan Mulally, certify that: 

2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
       
           3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
       
           4. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
       
           (a)   
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
       
           (b)   
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
       
           (c)   
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
       
           (d)   
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
       
           5. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
       
  (a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
    
  (b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 
    
                   Dated:   
    February 18, 2013 
    /s/ Alan Mulally 

Alan Mulally 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 18
 f12312012ex312.htm
 EXHIBIT

F 12.31.2012 Ex 31.2 

Exhibit 31.2 
    
  CERTIFICATION 
    
  I, Bob Shanks, certify that: 

2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
       
           3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
       
           4. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
       
           (a)   
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
       
           (b)   
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
       
           (c)   
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
       
           (d)   
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
       
           5. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
       
  (a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
    
  (b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 
    
                   Dated: 
    February 18, 2013 
    /s/ Bob Shanks 

Bob Shanks 

Executive Vice President and 

Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 19
 f12312012ex321.htm
 EXHIBIT

F 12.31.2012 Ex 32.1 

Exhibit 32.1 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 

I, Alan Mulally, President and Chief Executive Officer of Ford Motor Company (the "Company"), hereby certify pursuant to Rule 13a-14(b) or 15d-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the United States Code that to my knowledge: 
    
           1. 
    The Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended   December 31, 2012  , to which this statement is furnished as an exhibit (the "Report"), fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and 
       
           2. 
    The information contained in this Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Dated: 
    February 18, 2013 
    /s/ Alan Mulally 

Alan Mulally 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 20
 f12312012ex322.htm
 EXHIBIT

F 12.31.2012 Ex 32.2 

Exhibit 32.2 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 

I, Bob Shanks, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Ford Motor Company (the "Company"), hereby certify pursuant to Rule 13a-14(b) or Rule 15d-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the United States Code that to my knowledge: 
    
           1. 
    The Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended   December 31, 2012  , to which this statement is furnished as an exhibit (the "Report"), fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and 
       
           2. 
    The information contained in this Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Dated: 
    February 18, 2013 
    /s/ Bob Shanks 

Bob Shanks 

Executive Vice President and 

Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 21
 f-20121231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 22
 f-20121231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 23
 f-20121231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 24
 f-20121231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 25
 f-20121231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 26
 f-20121231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

10-K
 27
 f1231201210k.pdf
 PRINTABLE PDF OF COMPLETE FORM10-K

