<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080828_10-K_edgar_data_80424_0000950152-08-006832_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>9689589</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>870661</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>7527481</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>842842</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>118</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>15</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950152-08-006832.hdr.sgml : 20080828
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080828160550
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950152-08-006832
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		65
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20080630
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080828
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080828

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PROCTER & GAMBLE CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000080424
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SOAP, DETERGENT, CLEANING PREPARATIONS, PERFUMES, COSMETICS [2840]
		IRS NUMBER:				310411980
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			OH
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0630

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-00434
		FILM NUMBER:		081045585

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE PROCTER & GAMBLE PLAZA
		CITY:			CINCINNATI
		STATE:			OH
		ZIP:			45202
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5139831100

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE PROCTER & GAMBLE PLAZA
		CITY:			CINCINNATI
		STATE:			OH
		ZIP:			45202

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 OmjoUmSv5IDCx2LpEo0eovBX58i6pCGqQBbsfVaD0gmZyp98WxfidbOrGd+5m5cc
 cVzK1ERoGzZWEOrDpEpyNg==

 0000950152-08-006832.txt : 20080828

10-K
 1
 l32996ae10vk.htm
 THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY   10-K

The Procter & Gamble Company   10-K 

Table of Contents   

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY 
AND SUBSIDIARIES

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K 
TO THE 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
FOR THE 
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2008

******************************************

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

Form 10-K 

(Mark one) 

For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2008 

OR 

For the transition period from                        to                       

Commission File No. 1-434 

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY 

One Procter   Gamble Plaza, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 
Telephone (513) 983-1100 
IRS Employer Identification No. 31-0411980 
State of Incorporation: Ohio

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each Exchange on which registered 

Common Stock, without Par Value

New York, Paris 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act. Yes          No    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
15(d) of the Act. Yes          No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes          No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge,
in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check
mark whether the
registrant is a
large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,  a non-accelerated
filer, or a

smaller reporting company.
See the definitions of  large accelerated
filer,   accelerated
filer 
and  smaller reporting company  in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer

Accelerated filer

Non-accelerated filer    
 
(Do not check if a smaller reporting company) 

Smaller reporting company

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act). Yes          No    

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates amounted to $226 billion on
December 31, 2007.

There were 3,034,310,829 shares of Common Stock outstanding as of July 31, 2008.

Documents Incorporated By Reference 

Portions of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 are
incorporated by reference into Part I, Part II and Part IV of this report to the extent described
herein.

Portions of the Proxy Statement for the 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by
reference into Part III of this report to the extent described herein.

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

PART I   
     Item 1. Business   
     Item 1A. Risk Factors   
     Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments   
     Item 2. Properties   
     Item 3. Legal Proceedings   
     Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
   PART II   
     Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
     Item 6. Selected Financial Data   
     Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
     Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
     Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
     Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
     Item 9A. Controls and Procedures   
     Item 9B. Other Information   
   PART III   
     Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant   
     Item 11. Executive Compensation   
     Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
     Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   
     Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services   
   PART IV   
     Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   
   SIGNATURES   
   EXHIBIT INDEX   
   EX-10.1   
   EX-10.2   
   EX-10.3   
   EX-10.5   
   EX-10.6   
   EX-10.10   
   EX-10.14   
   EX-11   
   EX-12   
   EX-13   
   EX-21   
   EX-23   
   EX-31   
   EX-32   
   EX-99.1   

Table of Contents   

PART I 

Item 1.  Business .

Additional information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to
Management s Discussion and Analysis, which appears on pages 39-55; Note 1, Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies, which appears on pages 60-63; Note 2, Acquisitions, which appears on page 63;
and Note 12, Segment Information, which appears on pages 74-75 of the Annual Report to Shareholders
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms the
 Company,   P G,   we,   our  or  us  as used herein refers to The Procter   Gamble Company (the
registrant) and its subsidiaries.

The Procter   Gamble Company is focused on providing branded consumer goods products of
superior quality and value to improve the lives of the world s consumers. The Company was
incorporated in Ohio in 1905, having been built from a business founded in 1837 by William Procter
and James Gamble. Today, we market our products in more than 180 countries.

Throughout this Form 10-K, we incorporate by reference information from other documents filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

The Company s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports
on Form 8-K are filed electronically with the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site that
contains these reports at:  http://www.sec.gov . You can also access these reports through links
from our website at: www.pg.com/investors/sectionmain.shtml.

Copies of these reports are also available, without charge, by contacting The Procter   Gamble
Company, Shareholder Services Department, P.O. Box 5572, Cincinnati, Ohio 45201-5572.

Financial Information About Segments  

In fiscal year 2008, the Company was organized into three Global Business Units: Beauty;
Health   Well-Being; and Household Care. We had six reportable segments under U.S. GAAP: Beauty;
Grooming; Health Care; Snacks, Coffee and Pet Care; Fabric Care and Home Care; and Baby Care and
Family Care. Many of the factors necessary for an understanding of these businesses are similar.
Operating margins of the individual businesses vary slightly due to the nature of materials and
processes used to manufacture the products, the capital intensity of the businesses and differences
in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales. Net sales growth by
business is also expected to vary slightly due to the underlying growth of the markets of each
business and products. While none of our reportable segments are highly seasonal, components
within certain of our reportable segments, such as batteries (Fabric Care and Home Care),
appliances (Grooming) and prestige fine fragrances (Beauty) are seasonal. In addition,
anticipation or occurrence of natural disasters, such as hurricanes, can drive unusually high
demand for batteries.

Additional information about our businesses can be found in Management s Discussion and
Analysis, pages 39-55, and Note 12, Segment Information, which appears on pages 74-75 of the Annual
Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008.

2 

Table of Contents   

Narrative Description of Business 

Business Model . Our business model relies on the continued growth and success of existing
brands and products, as well as the creation of new products. The markets and industry segments in
which we offer our products are highly competitive. Our products are sold in over 180 countries
around the world primarily through mass merchandisers, grocery stores, membership club stores, drug
stores and in  high-frequency stores,  the neighborhood stores which serve many consumers in
developing markets. We work collaboratively with our customers to improve the in-store presence of
our products and win the  first moment of truth    when a consumer is shopping in the store. We
must also win the  second moment of truth    when a consumer uses the product, evaluates how well
it met his or her expectations and whether it was a good value. We believe we must continue to
provide new, innovative products and branding to the consumer in order to grow our business.
Research and product development activities, designed to enable sustained organic growth, continued
to carry a high priority during the past fiscal year. While many of the benefits from these
efforts will not be realized until future years, we believe these activities demonstrate our
commitment to future growth.

Key Product Categories . In 2008, one product category accounted for 10% or more of
consolidated net sales. The laundry category constituted approximately 16% of net sales for fiscal
years 2008, 2007 and 2006.

Key Customers . Our customers include mass merchandisers, grocery stores, membership club
stores, drug stores and high-frequency stores. Sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates
represent approximately 15% of our total revenue in 2008, 2007 and 2006. No other customer
represents more than 10% of our net sales. Our top ten customers account for approximately 31% of
our total unit volume in 2008, compared to 30% of total unit volume in 2007 and 31% in 2006. The
nature of our business results in no material backlog orders or contracts with the government. We
believe our practices related to working capital items for customers and suppliers are consistent
with the industry segments in which we compete.

Sources and Availability of Materials . Almost all of the raw and packaging materials used by
the Company are purchased from others, some of whom are single-source suppliers. We produce raw
materials, primarily chemicals, for further use in the manufacturing process. In addition, fuel,
natural gas and derivative products are important commodities used in our plants, products and in
the trucks used to deliver our products to customers. The prices we pay for materials and other
commodities are subject to fluctuation. When prices for these items change, we may or may not pass
on the change to our customers, depending on the magnitude and expected duration of the change.
The Company purchases a substantial variety of other raw and packaging materials, no one of which
is material to our business taken as a whole.

Trademarks and Patents . We own or have licenses under patents and registered trademarks which
are used in connection with our activity in all businesses. Some of these patents or licenses
cover significant product formulation and processes used to manufacture our products. The
trademarks are important to the overall marketing and branding of our products.
All major products and trademarks in each business are registered. In part, our success can be
attributed to the existence and continued protection of these trademarks, patents and licenses.

3 

Table of Contents   

Competitive Condition.  The markets in which our products are sold are highly competitive. Our
products compete against similar products of many large and small companies, including well-known
global competitors. We market our products with advertising, promotions and other vehicles to
build awareness of our brands in conjunction with an extensive sales force. We believe this
combination provides the most efficient method of marketing for these types of products. Product
quality, performance, value and packaging are also important competitive factors.

Research
and Development Expenditures.  Research and development
expenditures enable us to
develop technologies and obtain patents across all categories in order to meet the needs and
improve the lives of our consumers. Total research and development expenses were $2,226 million in
2008, $2,112 million in 2007 and $2,075 million in 2006.

Expenditures for Environmental Compliance . Expenditures for compliance with federal, state and
local environmental laws and regulations are fairly consistent from year to year and are not
material to the Company. No material change is expected in fiscal year 2009.

Employees . The Company has approximately 138,000 employees.

Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations 

Net sales in the United States account for approximately 40% of total net sales. No other
individual country had net sales exceeding 10% of total net sales. Operations outside the United
States are generally characterized by the same conditions discussed in the description of the
business above and may also be affected by additional factors including changing currency values,
different rates of inflation, economic growth and political and economic uncertainties and
disruptions. Our sales by geography for the fiscal years ended June 30 were as follows:

Developing markets include Latin America, Central   Eastern Europe/Middle East and Africa,
Greater China, and ASEAN/Australasia/India.

Net sales and assets in the United States and internationally were as follows (in millions):

4 

Table of Contents   

Development of the Business 

The discussion below provides insight to the general development of our business, including
the material acquisitions and disposition of assets over the past five years.

Gillette Acquisition.  On October 1, 2005, we completed the acquisition of The Gillette
Company. Pursuant to the acquisition agreement, which provided for the exchange of 0.975 shares
of The Procter   Gamble Company common stock, on a tax-free basis, for each share of The Gillette
Company, we issued 962 million shares of The Procter   Gamble Company common stock. We also issued
79 million stock options in exchange for The Gillette Company s outstanding stock options. Under
the purchase method of accounting, the total consideration was approximately $53.43 billion
including common stock, the fair value of vested stock options and acquisition costs.

The acquisition of The Gillette Company provided us with global market leadership in male
grooming, selected female grooming products, alkaline batteries and in manual and power
toothbrushes. Total sales for The Gillette Company during its most recent pre-acquisition year
ended December 31, 2004 were $10.5 billion.

In order to obtain regulatory approval of the transaction, we were required to divest certain
overlapping businesses. We completed the divestiture of the Spinbrush toothbrush business,
Rembrandt (a Gillette oral care product line) and Right Guard and other Gillette deodorant brands
during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006.

Juice Divestiture.  In August 2004 the Company completed the divestiture of its Juice business.

Wella Acquisition . In September 2003, the Company acquired a controlling interest in Wella.
Through a stock purchase agreement with the majority shareholders of Wella and a tender offer made
on the remaining shares, we acquired approximately 81% of the outstanding Wella shares (99% of the
voting class shares and 45% of the preference shares). In June 2004, a Company s subsidiary and
Wella entered into a Domination and Profit Transfer Agreement (the Domination Agreement). Under
the Domination Agreement, we are entitled to exercise full operating control and receive 100% of
the future earnings of Wella. As consideration for the Domination Agreement, we agreed to pay the
remaining shareholders of Wella a guaranteed annual dividend payment. Alternatively, the remaining
Wella shareholders could have elected to tender their shares to the Company for an agreed price.
The fair value of the total guaranteed annual dividend payments was $1.11 billion, which is the
approximate cost if all remaining shares were tendered. During the year ended June 30, 2006, a
portion of the remaining shares were tendered, resulting in a $944 million reduction in our
liability under the Domination Agreement. In December 2005, the Wella shareholder meeting approved
the squeeze-out of the remaining shareholders. Upon the registration of the squeeze-out in the
commercial register on November 12, 2007, the remaining shares of the minority shareholders were
transferred to the Company in exchange for a pre-determined cash consideration. While the
Domination Agreement transaction, including the guaranteed dividend payment and the cash offer, as
well as
the squeeze-out transaction, including the cash consideration, have been challenged by the
former minority shareholders, the Company now owns 100% of the Wella stock.

5 

Table of Contents   

The total purchase price for Wella, including acquisition costs and the costs of the
guaranteed dividend and squeeze-out payments, was $6.27 billion based on exchange rates at the
acquisition dates. The acquisition was financed by a mixture of available cash balances, debt and
the liability recorded under the Domination Agreement.

Hutchison Acquisition . In June 2004, we purchased the remaining 20% stake of our China venture
from our partner, Hutchison Whampoa China Ltd. (Hutchison), giving us full ownership of our
operations in China. The net purchase price was $1.85 billion, which is the purchase price of
$2.00 billion net of minority interest and certain obligations that were eliminated as a result of
the transaction. The acquisition was funded by debt.

Item 1A.  Risk Factors. 

We discuss our expectations regarding future performance, events and outcomes, such as our
business outlook and objectives in this Form 10-K, the Annual Report to Shareholders, quarterly
reports, press releases and other written and oral communications. All statements, except for
historical and present factual information, are  forward-looking statements  and are based on
financial data and business plans available only as of the time the statements are made, which may
become out of date or incomplete. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements
as a result of new information, future events, or other factors. Forward-looking statements are
inherently uncertain, and investors must recognize that events could significantly differ from our
expectations.

The following discussion of  risk factors  identifies the most significant factors that may
adversely affect our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance.
This information should be read in conjunction with Management s Discussion and Analysis (MD A) and
the consolidated financial statements and related notes incorporated by reference into this report.
The following discussion of risks is not all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we
believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our expectations. These factors could
cause our future results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements and from historical
trends.

A material change in consumer demand for our products could have a significant impact on our
business. 

We are a consumer products company and rely on continued global demand for our brands and
products. To achieve business goals, we must develop and sell products that appeal to consumers.
This is dependent on a number of factors including our ability to develop effective sales,
advertising and marketing programs in an increasingly fragmented media environment. We expect to
achieve our financial targets, in part, by shifting our portfolio towards faster growing, higher
margin businesses. If demand and growth rates fall substantially below expected levels or our
market share declines significantly in these businesses, our results could be negatively impacted.
This could occur due to unforeseen negative economic or political events or to changes in consumer
trends and habits. In addition, our continued success is dependent on leading-edge innovation,
with respect to both products and operations. This means we must be able to obtain patents that
lead to the development of products that appeal to our consumers across the world.

The ability to achieve our business objectives is dependent on how well we can respond to our local
and global competitors. 

6 

Table of Contents   

Across all of our categories, we compete against a wide variety of global and local
competitors. As a result, there are ongoing competitive product and pricing pressures in the
environments in which we operate, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins. To address
these challenges, we must be able to successfully respond to competitive factors, including
pricing, promotional incentives and trade terms, as well as technological advances and patents
granted to competition.

Our ability to successfully integrate key acquisitions, such as Gillette, could impact our business
results. 

Since our goals include a growth component tied to acquisitions, we must be able to
successfully manage and integrate key acquisitions, such as the acquisition of The Gillette
Company. Specifically, we must be able to integrate acquisitions without any significant
disruption to our ability to manage and execute business plans on our base businesses. In
addition, our financial results could be adversely impacted if we are not able to deliver the
expected cost and growth synergies associated with our acquisitions.

Our businesses face cost pressures which could affect our business results. 

Our costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in commodity prices, raw
materials, cost of labor, foreign exchange and interest rates. Our costs in 2008 were impacted by
higher commodity costs and this trend is likely to continue in 2009. Therefore, our success is
dependent, in part, on our continued ability to manage these fluctuations through pricing actions,
cost savings projects (including outsourcing projects), sourcing decisions and certain hedging
transactions. In the manufacturing and general overhead areas, we need to maintain key
manufacturing and supply arrangements, including any key sole supplier and sole manufacturing plant
arrangements.

We face risks associated with significant international operations. 

We conduct business across the globe with a significant portion of our sales outside the
United States. We expect to achieve our financial targets, in part, by achieving disproportionate
growth in developing regions. Should growth rates or our market share fall substantially below
expected levels in these regions, our results could be negatively impacted. In addition, economic
changes, terrorist activity and political unrest may result in business interruption, inflation,
deflation or decreased demand for our products. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability
to manage continued global political and/or economic uncertainty, especially in our significant
geographical markets, as well as any political or economic disruption due to terrorist and other
hostile activities.

Our business is subject to regulation in the U.S. and abroad. 

Changes in laws, regulations and the related interpretations may alter the environment in
which we do business. This includes changes in environmental, competitive and product-related
laws, as well as changes in accounting standards and taxation requirements. Accordingly, our
ability to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters (including product liability, patent, and
intellectual property matters), and to resolve pending legal matters without significant
liability, including the competition law and antitrust investigations described in Part I, Item 3
of this Form
10-K, which could require the Company to take significant reserves or pay significant fines
during a reporting period, may materially impact our results.

If the reputation of one or more of our leading brands erodes significantly, it could have a
material impact on our financial results .

7 

Table of Contents   

Our Company s financial success is directly dependent on the success of our brands,
particularly our billion-dollar brands. The success of these brands can suffer if our marketing
plans or product initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand s image or its ability to
attract consumers. Further, our Company s results could be negatively impacted if one of our
leading brands suffers a substantial impediment to its reputation due to real or perceived quality
issues.

A material change in customer relationships or in customer demand for our products could have a
significant impact on our business. 

Our success is dependent on our ability to successfully manage relationships with our retail
trade customers. This includes our ability to offer trade terms that are acceptable to our
customers and are aligned with our pricing and profitability targets. Our business could suffer if
we cannot reach agreement with a key customer based on our trade terms and principles. Further,
there is a continuing trend towards retail trade consolidation and this leads to more complex work
across broader geographic boundaries for both us and key retailers. This can be particularly
difficult when major customers are addressing local trade pressures or local law and regulation
changes. Further, our business would be negatively impacted if a key customer were to significantly
reduce the range or inventory level of our products.

Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments. 

None.

Item 2.  Properties. 

In the United States, we own and operate 39 manufacturing facilities located in 23 different
states. In addition, we own and operate 103 manufacturing facilities in 42 other countries. Many
of the domestic and international facilities produce products for multiple businesses. Beauty
products are manufactured at 42 of these locations; Grooming products are manufactured at 13 of
these locations; Fabric Care and Home Care products at 49; Baby Care and Family Care products at
29; Pet Care, Snacks and Coffee products at 15; and Health Care products at 37. Management
believes that the Company s production facilities are adequate to support the business efficiently
and that the properties and equipment have been well maintained.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings. 

The Company is subject, from time to time, to certain legal proceedings and claims arising out
of our business, which cover a wide range of matters, including antitrust and trade regulation,
product liability, advertising, contracts, environmental issues, patent and trademark matters, and
taxes.

Recently, the Company has become subject to a variety of investigations into potential
competition law violations in the European Union. In July 2006, French authorities, in connection
with an inquiry into potential competition law violations in France, entered the premises of two of
the Company s French subsidiaries and seized a variety of documents. In April 2008, UK authorities
initiated an investigation concerning potential antitrust violations in the UK involving one of the
Company s subsidiaries. In June 2008, European Commission officials, with the
assistance of the national authorities from a variety of countries, started an investigation into
potential competition law violations in a variety of countries across the European Union. At the
same time, the national authorities in Spain and Italy initiated additional investigations into
potential antitrust concerns within those countries. In connection with these investigations, a
number of the Company s subsidiaries were visited and documents seized. The Company or its

8 

Table of Contents   

subsidiaries are also involved in other competition law investigations in Belgium, Romania and
Greece. We believe that all of the above matters involve a number of other consumer products
companies and/or retail customers. The Company s policy is to comply with all laws and
regulations, including all antitrust and competition laws.

Competition and antitrust law investigations often continue for several years and, if
violations are found, can result in substantial fines. At this point, no formal claims have been
made against the Company or any of our subsidiaries in connection with any of above inquiries.

During the fiscal year just ended, certain of the Company s subsidiaries in Germany received a
formal complaint alleging violations of the antitrust laws. We are now discussing the situation
with the German authorities.

Although the Company cannot accurately predict what financial impact may ultimately result
from the totality of these matters, we have taken and will take reserves as appropriate. Please
refer to the Company s Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Form 10-K for additional information.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. 

Not Applicable.

9 

Table of Contents   

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The names, ages and positions held by the executive officers of the Company on August 28, 2008
are:

10 

Table of Contents   

All of the Executive Officers named above, excluding Mr. Shirley, have been employed by the
Company for more than five years. During the previous five years, Mr. Shirley has held the
following positions within the Company: Vice Chairman   Global Beauty and Grooming (July 1, 2008 -
present), Group President   North America (April 17, 2006   June 30, 2008) and President -
Commercial Operations   Gillette International (October 11, 2005   April 16, 2006). Mr. Shirley
also held the following positions with The Gillette Company prior to its acquisition by the Company
in October 2005: President   Gillette International Commercial Operations (June 2004   October 11,
2005) and Senior Vice President, Gillette Global Value Chain   Global Marketing Resources (June
2002   May 2004).

11 

Table of Contents   

PART II 

Item 5.  Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities. 

ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 

(1) 
       
     The total number of shares purchased was 29,760,427 for the quarter. All transactions were made in the open market or
pursuant to prepaid forward agreements with large financial institutions. Under these agreements, the Company prepaid
large financial institutions to deliver shares at a future date in exchange for a discount. The number of shares purchased
other than through a publicly announced repurchase plan was 55,650 for the quarter. These shares were acquired by the
Company under various compensation and benefit plans. This table excludes shares withheld from employees to satisfy
minimum tax withholding requirements on option exercises and other equity-based transactions. The Company administers
cashless exercises through an independent, third party broker and does not repurchase stock in connection with cashless
exercise. 

(2) 
       
     Average price paid per share is calculated on a settlement basis and excludes commission. 

(3) 
       
     On August 3, 2007, the Company announced a share repurchase plan. Pursuant to the share repurchase plan, the Board of
Directors authorized the Company and its subsidiaries to acquire in open market and/or private transactions $24 to $30
billion of shares of Company common stock over the subsequent three years to be financed by issuing a combination of
long-term and short-term debt. Certain purchases were made prior to announcement of program but are considered purchases
against the program. 

(4) 
       
     The dollar values listed in this column include commissions to be paid to brokers to execute the transactions. 

Additional information required by this item is incorporated by reference to Shareholder
Information, which appears on page 79 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year
ended June 30, 2008, and Part III, Item 12 of this Form 10-K.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data. 

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to Note 1, Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies, which appears on pages 60-63; Note 12, Segment Information,
which appears on pages 74-75; and Financial Summary, which appears on page 80 of the Annual Report
to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008.

12 

Table of Contents   

Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations. 

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to Management s Discussion
and Analysis, which appears on pages 39-55; Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,
which appears on pages 60-63; Note 2, Acquisitions, which appears on page 63; Note 11, Commitments
and Contingencies, which appears on pages 73-74; and Note 12, Segment Information, which appears on
pages 74-75 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008.

The Company has made certain forward-looking statements in the Annual Report to Shareholders
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 and in other contexts relating to volume and net sales
growth, increases in market shares, financial goals and cost reduction, among others.

These forward-looking statements are based on assumptions and estimates regarding competitive
activity, pricing, product introductions, economic conditions, customer and consumer trends,
technological innovation, currency movements, governmental action and the development of certain
markets available at the time the statements are made. There are a number of key factors that
could cause our actual results to materially differ from the forward-looking statements made herein
and in other contexts. Please see Item 1A  Risk Factors  of this Form 10-K for a discussion of
these important factors.

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section entitled
Other Information, which appears on pages 54-55, and Note 6, Risk Management Activities, which
appears on pages 65-66 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30,
2008.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

The financial statements and supplementary data are incorporated by reference to pages 56-76
and 79-81 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, but
excluding the section entitled Shareholder Return Performance Graphs on page 81.

Note 5 (Short-Term and Long-Term Debt) to the consolidated financial statements incorporated
by reference herein includes: The Procter   Gamble Company fully and unconditionally guarantees the
registered debt securities issued by its 100% owned finance subsidiaries.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure. 

Not applicable.

Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures. 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures. 

The Company s Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, A. G. Lafley, and the
Company s Chief Financial Officer, Clayton C. Daley, Jr., performed an evaluation of the Company s
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 ( Exchange Act )) as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

Messrs. Lafley and Daley have concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures
were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports we file or submit
under the Exchange Act is (1) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and

13 

Table of Contents   

(2) accumulated and
communicated to our management, including Messrs. Lafley and Daley, to allow their timely decisions
regarding required disclosure.

Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. 

Management s annual report on internal control over financial reporting and the report of the
independent registered public accounting firm are incorporated by reference to page 37 of the
Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008.

Changes
in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. 

There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
the Company s fourth fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.  Other Information. 

Not applicable.

14 

Table of Contents   

PART III 

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant. 

The Board of Directors has determined that Mr. Charles R. Lee, Chairman of the Audit
Committee, is independent and an audit committee financial expert, as defined by SEC guidelines.

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to pages 4-10, up to but
not  including the section entitled Board and Committee Meeting Attendance; to the section entitled
Code of Ethics, which appears on pages 10-11; and to the section entitled
Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance, which appears on page 53 of the Proxy Statement filed since the
close of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, pursuant to Regulation 14A which involved the
election of directors. Pursuant to Instruction 3 of Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K, Executive
Officers of the Registrant are reported in Part I of this report.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation. 

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to pages 13-51 of the Proxy
Statement filed since the close of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, pursuant to Regulation 14A
which involved the election of directors, beginning with the section
entitled Director Compensation up to but not including the section entitled Security
Ownership of Management and Certain Beneficial Owners.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters. 

The following table gives information about the Company s common stock that may be issued upon
the exercise of options, warrants and rights under all of the Company s equity compensation plans
as of June 30, 2008. The table includes the following plans: The 1968 Procter   Gamble Plan for
the Use of Shares in Payment of Remuneration; The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan; The Procter  
Gamble 1992 Stock Plan (Belgian Version); The Procter   Gamble 1993 Non-Employee Directors  Stock
Plan; The Procter   Gamble Future Shares Plan; The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive
Compensation Plan; The Procter   Gamble 2003 Non-Employee Directors  Stock Plan; The Gillette
Company 1971 Stock Option Plan and The Gillette Company 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan.

15 

Table of Contents   

(1)   
       
       Includes The 1968 Procter   Gamble Plan for the Use of Shares in Payment of Remuneration; The Procter   Gamble 1992
Stock Plan; The Procter   Gamble 1993 Non-Employee Directors Stock Plan; The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive
Compensation Plan; and The Procter   Gamble 2003 Non-Employee Directors Stock Plan.   

(2)   
       
       Of the plans listed in (1), only The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan and The 2003 Non-
Employee Directors Stock Plan allow for future grants of securities. The maximum number of shares that may be granted
under these plans is 229 million shares, of which no more than 36 million in shares may be available for awards of restricted
and unrestricted stock. Total shares available for future issuance under these plans is approximately 50 million.   

(3)   
       
       Includes The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan (Belgian version); The Procter   Gamble Future Shares Plan;
The Gillette Company 1971 Stock Option Plan; and The Gillette Company 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan.   

(4)   
       
       Of the plans listed in (3), only The Gillette Company
2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan allows for future grants of securities.
The maximum number of shares that may be granted under this plan is 20 million shares. Total shares available for future
issuance under this plan is approximately 12 million.   

The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan (Belgian Version) 

No further grants can be made under the plan, although unexercised stock options previously
granted under this plan remain outstanding. This plan was approved by the Company s Board of
Directors on February 14, 1997. Although the plan has not been submitted to shareholders for
approval, it is nearly identical to The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan, approved by the Company s
shareholders on October 13, 1992, except for a few minor changes designed to comply with the
Belgian tax laws.

The plan was designed to attract, retain and motivate key Belgian employees. Under the plan,
eligible participants were: (i) granted or offered the right to purchase stock options, (ii)
granted stock appreciation rights and/or (iii) granted shares of the Company s common stock.
Except in the case of death of the recipient, all stock options and stock appreciation rights must
vest in no less than one year from the date of grant and must expire no later than fifteen years
from the date of grant. The exercise price for all stock options granted under the plan is the
average price of the Company s stock on the date of grant. If a recipient of a grant leaves
the Company while holding an unexercised option or right, any unexercisable portions immediately
become void, except in the case of death, and any exercisable portions become void within one month
of departure, except in the case of death or retirement. Any common stock awarded under the plan
may be subject to restrictions on sale or transfer while the recipient is employed, as the
committee administering the plan may determine.

16 

Table of Contents   

The Procter   Gamble Future Shares Plan 

On October 14, 1997, the Company s Board of Directors approved The Procter   Gamble Future
Shares Plan pursuant to which options to purchase shares of the Company s common stock may be
granted to employees worldwide. The purpose of this plan is to advance the interests of the
Company by giving substantially all employees a stake in the Company s future growth and success
and to strengthen the alignment of interests between employees and the Company s shareholders
through increased ownership of shares of the Company s stock. The plan has not been submitted to
shareholders for approval.

Subject to adjustment for changes in the Company s capitalization, the number of shares to be
granted under the plan is not to exceed 17 million shares. Under the plan s regulations,
recipients are granted options to acquire 100 shares of the Company s common stock at an exercise
price equal to the average price of the Company s common stock on the date of the grant. These
options vest five years after the date of grant and expire ten years following the date of grant.
If a recipient leaves the employ of the Company prior to the vesting date for a reason other than
disability, retirement or special separation (as defined in the plan), then the award is forfeited.

At the time of the first grant following Board approval of the plan, each employee of the
Company not eligible for an award under the 1992 Stock Plan was granted options for 100 shares.
From the date of this first grant through June 30, 2003, each new employee of the Company has also
received options for 100 shares. Following the grant of options on June 30, 2003, the Company
suspended this part of the plan and intends to make no further grants under this part of the plan.
The plan terminated on October 13, 2007.

In addition to the grants above, annual grants of options for 100 shares are granted to
approximately 3,000 employees who are not eligible for participation in the 2001 Stock and
Incentive Compensation Plan in recognition of outstanding performance. The Company s key managers
are not eligible for such grants.

The Gillette Company 1971 Stock Option Plan 

No further grants can be made under the plan after April 25, 2005, although unexercised stock
options previously granted under this plan remain outstanding. The plan was approved by
shareholders of The Gillette Company and assumed by the Company upon the merger between The Procter
  Gamble Company and The Gillette Company. All options became immediately vested and exercisable on
October 1, 2005 as a result of the merger. After the merger, all outstanding options became options
to purchase shares of The Procter   Gamble Company subject to an exchange ratio of 0.975 shares of
P G stock per share of Gillette stock.

The plan was designed to attract, retain and motivate key salaried employees of The Gillette
Company and non-employee members of its Board of Directors. Under the plan, eligible
participants receive the option to purchase Company stock at a pre-determined price which
cannot be less than 100% of the fair market value per share at the time that the option is granted.
The period of any option may not exceed ten years from the date of grant. Subject to adjustment for
changes in the Company s capitalization, the number of shares granted under the plan was not to
exceed 198 million shares.

17 

Table of Contents   

If a recipient leaves the employ of the Company for any reason other than death or discharge
for cause, the recipient is permitted to exercise any vested options granted under the plan for a period
between thirty days and five years after termination, depending on the circumstances of his/her
departure. If a participant is discharged for cause, all options are immediately cancelled. If a
participant dies while holding options, the options are exercisable for a period of one to three
years depending on the date of grant. In addition, the plan allows Gillette employees whose
employment is terminated for  Good Reason  within two years after the effective date of the merger
the ability to exercise remaining options for the shorter of five years following their termination
date or the original life of the grant. Employees terminated for  Good Reason  who are also
eligible to retire under a Company plan are allowed to exercise their options subject to the
original terms of the grant.

The Gillette Company 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan 

Shareholders of The Gillette Company approved The Gillette Company 2004 Long Term Incentive
Plan on May 20, 2004, and the plan was assumed by the Company upon the merger between The Procter  
Gamble Company and The Gillette Company. All options became immediately vested and exercisable on
October 1, 2005 as a result of the merger. After the merger, all outstanding options became options
to purchase shares of The Procter   Gamble Company subject to an exchange ratio of 0.975 shares of
P G stock per share of Gillette stock. Only employees previously employed by the Gillette Company
prior to October 1, 2005 are eligible to receive grants under this plan.

The plan was designed to attract, retain and motivate employees of The Gillette Company, and
until the effective date of the merger between The Gillette Company and The Procter   Gamble
Company, non-employee members of the Gillette Board of Directors. Under the plan, eligible
participants are: (i) granted or offered the right to purchase stock options, (ii) granted stock
appreciation rights and/or (iii) granted shares of the Company s common stock or restricted stock
units (and dividend equivalents). Subject to adjustment for changes in the Company s
capitalization and the addition of any shares authorized but not issued or redeemed under The
Gillette Company 1971 Stock Option Plan, the number of shares to be granted under the plan is not
to exceed 19 million shares.

Except in the case of death of the recipient, all stock options and stock appreciation rights
must expire no later than ten years from the date of grant. The exercise price for all stock
options granted under the plan must be equal to or greater than the fair market value of the
Company s stock on the date of grant. Any common stock awarded under the plan may be subject to
restrictions on sale or transfer while the recipient is employed, as the committee administering
the plan may determine.

If a recipient of a grant leaves the Company while holding an unexercised option or right: (1)
any unexercisable portions immediately become void, except in the case of death, retirement,
special separation (as those terms are defined in the plan) or any grants as to which the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors has waived the termination provisions; and
(2) any exercisable portions immediately become void, except in the case of death, retirement,
special separation, voluntary resignation that is not for Good Reason (as those terms are defined
in the plan) or any grants as to which the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors has
waived the termination provisions. In addition, the plan allows Gillette employees whose
employment was terminated for  Good Reason  within two years of the effective date of the merger
the ability to exercise their options for the shorter of five years following their

18 

Table of Contents   

termination
date or the original life of the grant. Employees terminated for  Good Reason  who are also
eligible to retire under a Company plan are allowed to exercise their options subject to the
original terms of the grant.

Additional information required by this item is incorporated by reference to pages 51-53,
beginning with the section entitled Security Ownership of Management and Certain Beneficial Owners
and up to but not including the section entitled Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance, of the Proxy Statement filed since the close of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008,
pursuant to Regulation 14A which involved the election of directors, including footnotes referenced
therein.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions. 

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the sections entitled
Director Independence and Review and Approval of Transactions with Related Persons which appear on
pages 10 and 11, respectively, of the Proxy Statement filed since the close of the fiscal year
ended June 30, 2008, pursuant to Regulation 14A which involved the election of directors.

Item 14.  Principal Accounting Fees and Services. 

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to pages 54-55 of the Proxy
Statement filed since the close of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, pursuant to Regulation 14A
which involved the election of directors, beginning with the section entitled Report of the Audit
Committee and ending with the section entitled Services Provided by Deloitte.

19 

Table of Contents   

PART IV 

Item 15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. 

1. 
       
     Financial Statements: 

The following Consolidated Financial Statements of The Procter   Gamble Company and
subsidiaries, management s report and the reports of the independent registered public
accounting firm are incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 

2. 
       
     Financial Statement Schedules: 

These schedules are omitted because of the absence of the conditions under which they
are required or because the information is set forth in the financial statements or
notes thereto. 

Exhibits: 

Exhibit (3-1)  

Amended Articles of Incorporation (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit (3-1) of the Company s  
Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended September 30, 2005). 

(3-2)  

Regulations (as amended by shareholders at
the annual meeting on October 10, 2006) (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit (3-2) of the Company s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 2006). 

Exhibit (4)  

Registrant agrees to file a copy of documents defining
the rights of holders of long-term debt upon request of
the Commission. 

Exhibit (10-1)  

The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive
Compensation Plan (as amended on August 14, 2007) which
was originally adopted by shareholders at the annual
meeting on October 9, 2001 (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit (10-1) of the Company s Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended March 31, 2008), and related correspondence and
terms and conditions.* 

20 

Table of Contents   

(10-2)  

The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan (as amended December 11,
2001) which was originally adopted by the shareholders at the annual
meeting on October 12, 1992.* 

(10-3)  

The Procter   Gamble Executive Group Life Insurance Policy (each
executive officer is covered for an amount equal to annual salary plus
bonus).* 

(10-4)  

The Procter   Gamble Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors (as
amended December 12, 2006) which was originally adopted by the Board of
Directors on September 9, 1980 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10-3) of the Company s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31,
2006).* 

(10-5)  

The Procter   Gamble 1993 Non-Employee Directors  Stock Plan (as
amended September 10, 2002) which was originally adopted by the
shareholders at the annual meeting on October 11, 1994.* 

(10-6)  

The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan (Belgian Version) (as amended
December 11, 2001) which was originally adopted by the Board of
Directors on February 14, 1997.* 

(10-7)  

The Procter   Gamble Future Shares Plan (as adjusted for the stock
split effective May 21, 2004) which was originally adopted by the Board
of Directors on October 14, 1997 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10-2) of the Company s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2005).* 

(10-8)  

The Procter   Gamble 2003 Non-Employee Directors  Stock Plan (as
amended in August 2007) which was originally adopted by the
shareholders at the annual meeting on October 14, 2003 , and related
correspondence and terms and conditions (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit (10-3) of the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended September 30, 2007).* 

(10-9)  

The Procter   Gamble Company Executive Deferred Compensation Plan
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10-1) of the Company s Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended December 31, 2005).* 

(10-10)  

Summary of the Company s Short Term Achievement Reward Program and
related correspondence and terms and conditions.* 

(10-11)  

Summary of the Company s Business Growth Program and related
correspondence and terms and conditions (Incorporated 

21 

Table of Contents   

22 

Table of Contents   

23 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit (11)  

Computation of earnings per share. 

Exhibit (12)  

Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges. 

Exhibit (13)  

Annual Report to Shareholders (pages 1-82). 

Exhibit (21)  

Subsidiaries of the registrant. 

Exhibit (23)  

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 

Exhibit (31)  

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications. 

Exhibit (32)  

Section 1350 Certifications. 

Exhibit (99-1)  

Summary of Directors and Officers Insurance Program. 

* 
       
     Compensatory plan or arrangement 

24 

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized in the city of Cincinnati, State of Ohio.

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY 

By

A.G. LAFLEY 

(A.G. Lafley) 

Chairman of the Board
 
and Chief Executive Officer 

August 28, 2008 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature 
       
     Title 
       
     Date 

A.G. LAFLEY

(A.G. Lafley)

Chairman of the Board
 
and Chief Executive Officer 
(Principal Executive Officer) 
       
     August 28, 2008 

CLAYTON C. DALEY, JR.

(Clayton C. Daley, Jr.)

Chief Financial Officer 
(Principal Financial Officer) 
       
     August 28, 2008 

VALARIE L. SHEPPARD

(Valarie L. Sheppard)

Vice President and Comptroller 
(Principal Accounting Officer) 
       
     August 28, 2008 

KENNETH I. CHENAULT

(Kenneth I. Chenault)

Director  
       
     August 28, 2008 

SCOTT D. COOK

(Scott D. Cook)

Director  
       
     August 28, 2008 

RAJAT K. GUPTA

(Rajat K. Gupta)

Director  
       
     August 28, 2008 

25 

Table of Contents   

26 

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX 

Table of Contents   

Table of Contents   

Table of Contents   

(10-26)  

Form of Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement in connection with the
$10 Billion commercial paper program initiated by Procter   Gamble
International Funding S.C.A. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10-9) of the Company s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
2006). 

(10-27)  

Form of Issuing and Paying Agent Agreement in connection with the
$10 Billion commercial paper program initiated by Procter   Gamble
International Funding S.C.A. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10-10) of the Company s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
2006). 

(10-28)  

Senior Executive Recoupment Policy (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 99 of the Company s Form 8-K filed on December 15, 2006). 

(10-29)  

The Gillette Company Deferred Compensation Plan (for salary
deferrals prior to January 1, 2005) as amended through August 21, 2006.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10-29) of the Company s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2007). 

Exhibit (11)  

Computation of earnings per share. 

Exhibit (12)  

Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges. 

Exhibit (13)  

Annual Report to Shareholders (pages 1-82). 

Exhibit (21)  

Subsidiaries of the registrant. 

Exhibit (23)  

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 

Exhibit (31)  

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications. 

Exhibit (32)  

Section 1350 Certifications. 

Exhibit  (99-1)  

Summary of Directors and Officers Insurance Program. 

<EX-10.1>
 2
 l32996aexv10w1.htm
 EX-10.1

EX-10.1 

EXHIBIT (10-1)

The
Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan
  related 
correspondence and terms and conditions

Appendix 1

GRANT_DATE                    GLOBALID  

FIRST_NAME   MIDDLE_NAME   LAST_NAME   

Subject:  NON-STATUTORY STOCK OPTION SERIES 08-AA 

In recognition of your contributions to the future success of the business, The Procter  
Gamble Company ( Company ) hereby grants to you an option to purchase shares of Procter  
Gamble Common Stock as follows:

Grant Value:

$  DELIVERED _ GRANT_VALUE   

Option Price per Share:

$  STOCK_PRCE   

Number of Shares:

SHARES   

Date of Grant:

GRANT_DATE   

Expiration of Option:

EXPIRATION_DATE   

Option Vest Date:

100% after   VEST_DATE   

Acceptance Deadline:

ACCEPTANCE_DATE   

This stock option is granted in accordance with and subject to the terms of The Procter  
Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (including any applicable sub-plan) (the
 Plan ), the Regulations of the Compensation and Leadership Development Committee of the
Board of Directors ( Committee ), and the Exercise Instructions in place as may be revised
from time to time.

You may access, download and/or print the terms, or any portion thereof, of the Plan by
activating this hyperlink:  The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation
Plan . Specific portions of the Plan are also hyperlinked below for your ease in
reviewing. Nonetheless, if you would prefer to receive a paper copy of The Procter   Gamble
2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan, please send a written request via email to
Execcomp.IM@pg.com. Please understand that you will continue to receive future Plan
materials and information via electronic mail even though you may have requested a paper
copy.

The option is not transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution
and is exercisable during your life only by you. This option will become void upon any
separation (including retirement) from the Company or any of its subsidiaries within 6
months of the grant date. This option may also become void upon separation from the Company
or any of its subsidiaries at any time later than 6 months after the grant date (see
 Article G, paragraph 4  of the Plan). For the purposes of this option, separation
from the Company or any of its subsidiaries and termination of employment will be effective
as of the date that you are no longer actively employed and will not be extended by any
notice period required under local law.

Appendix 1

Please note that when the issue or transfer of the Common Stock covered by this option may,
in the opinion of the Company, conflict or be inconsistent with any applicable law or
regulation of any governmental agency, the Company reserves the right to refuse to issue or
transfer said Common Stock and that any outstanding options may be suspended or terminated
if you engage in actions that are significantly contrary to the best interests of the
Company or any of its subsidiaries.

This option to purchase shares of Common Stock of the Company is subject to the Employee
Acknowledgement and Consent Form below and to the terms of the Plan, with which you
acknowledge you are familiar by accepting this award, including the non-compete provision
and other terms of  Article F . The option is also subject to and bound by the
actions of the Compensation and Leadership Development Committee and of the Company s Board
of Directors. This option grant and the Plan together constitute an agreement between the
Company and you in accordance with the terms thereof and hereof, and no other understandings
and/or agreements have been entered by you with the Company regarding this specific stock
option grant. Any legal action related to this option, including Article F, may be brought
in any federal or state court located in Hamilton County, Ohio, USA, and you hereby agree to
accept the jurisdiction of these courts and consent to service of process from said courts
solely for legal actions related to this option grant.

Under IRS standards of professional practice, certain tax advice must meet requirements as
to form and substance. To assure compliance with these standards, we disclose to you that
this communication is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, for the
purpose of avoiding penalties or promoting, marketing, or recommending to another party any
transaction or matter addressed herein.

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY

James J. Johnson  

Secretary for the Compensation and Leadership 
Development Committee

ATTACHMENTS 

To
Accept Your Stock Option     
Read and check each of the boxes below:

I have read, understand and
agree to be bound by each of:

the terms of this letter; The Procter   Gamble 2001
Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan; and the
Employee Acknowledgement and Consent Form
(below). 

I accept the stock option grant detailed above. (To accept this option, you must also
check the box above.) 

To
Reject Your Stock Option     
Read and check the box below:

Appendix 1

I have read and understand the terms noted above. I do not agree to be
bound by these terms, and hereby reject the stock option grant detailed above. 

SUBMIT  

Employee Acknowledgement and Consent Form  

I understand that I am eligible to receive a grant of stock options or restricted stock units
( RSUs ) under The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan or The Gillette
Company 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan (together, referred to as the  Plans ).

Data Privacy  

I hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or
other form, of my personal data as described in this document by and among, as applicable, my
employer ( Employer ) and The Procter   Gamble Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates ( P G )
for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing my participation in the
Plans.

I understand that P G and my Employer hold certain personal information about me, including, but
not limited to, my name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number
or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or
directorships held in P G, details of all options or RSUs or any other entitlement to shares of
stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in my favor, for the purpose of
implementing, administering and managing the Plans ( Data ). I understand that Data may be
transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of
the Plans, that these recipients may be located in my country or elsewhere, and that the
recipient s country may have different data privacy laws and protections than my country. I
understand that I may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of
the Data by contacting my local human resources representative. I authorize the recipients to
receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes
of implementing, administering and managing my participation in the Plans, including any requisite
transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party with whom I may elect to
deposit any shares of stock acquired upon exercise of the option or settlement of the RSU. I
understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage
my participation in the Plans. I understand that I may, at any time, view Data, request additional
information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or
refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing my local
human resources representative. I understand, however, that refusing or withdrawing my consent may
affect my ability to participate in the Plans. For more information on the consequences of my
refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, I understand that I may contact my local human
resources representative.

Nature of Grant  

By completing this form and accepting the grant of the stock options or RSUs evidenced hereby, I
acknowledge that: i) the Plans are established voluntarily by The Procter   Gamble Company, it is
discretionary in nature and it may be amended, suspended or terminated at any time; ii) the grant
of options or RSUs under the Plans is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual
or other right to receive future grants of options or RSUs, or benefits in lieu of options or RSUs,
even if options or RSUs have been granted repeatedly in the past; iii) all decisions with respect
to future grants of options or RSUs, if any, will be at the sole discretion of P  iv) my
participation in the Plans is voluntary; v) the option or RSU is an extraordinary item and not part
of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes including, but not limited to,
calculating any termination, severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses,
long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments; vi) in the event that my
employer is not P G, the grant of options or RSUs will not be interpreted to form an employment
relationship with P  and furthermore, the grant of options or RSUs will not be interpreted to
form an employment contract with my Employer; vii) the future value of the shares purchased under
the Plans is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty, may increase or decrease in value,
even below the exercise price and, if the underlying shares do not increase in value, the option
will have no value; iix) my participation in the Plans shall not create a right to further
employment with my

Appendix 1

Employer and shall not interfere with the ability of my Employer to terminate my
employment relationship at any time, with or without cause; ix) and no claim or entitlement to
compensation or damages arises from the termination of the option or RSU or the diminution in value
of the option or RSU or shares purchased and I irrevocably release P G and my Employer from any
such claim that may arise.

Responsibility for Taxes  

Regardless of any action P G or my Employer takes with respect to any or all income tax, social
insurance, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related withholding ( Tax-Related Items ),
I acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items is and remains my
responsibility and that P G and/or my Employer (1) make no representations or undertakings
regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the option or RSU
grant, including the grant, vesting or exercise of the option, settlement of the shares from the
RSU, the subsequent sale of shares acquired and the receipt of any dividends or the potential
impact of current or future tax legislation in any jurisdiction; and (2) do not commit to structure
the terms of the grant or any aspect of the option or RSU to reduce or eliminate my liability for
Tax-Related Items.

Prior to exercise of the option or settlement of the shares from the RSU, I shall pay or make
adequate arrangements satisfactory to P G and/or my Employer to satisfy all withholding and payment
on account obligations of P G and/or my Employer. In this regard, I authorize P G and/or my
Employer to withhold all applicable Tax-Related Items from my wages or other cash compensation paid
to me by P G and/or my Employer or from proceeds of the sale of the shares. Alternatively, or in
addition, if permissible under local law, P G may (1) sell or arrange for the sale of shares that I
acquire to meet the withholding obligation for Tax-Related Items, and/or (2) withhold in shares,
provided that P G only withholds the amount of shares necessary to satisfy the minimum withholding
amount. Finally, I shall pay to P G or my Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that P G or my
Employer may be required to withhold as a result of my participation in the Plan or my purchase of
shares that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. P G may refuse to honor the
exercise and refuse to deliver the shares if I fail to comply with my obligations in connection
with the Tax-Related Items as described in this section.

Appendix 2

Payment Preference Materials for Key Manager Awards  

DATE  
 NAME 

Subject : Payment Form Elections for STAR, BGP and Key Manager Awards 

Your choices for the awards are: 

February  YEAR  Key Manager Long-Term Incentive Award   

September  YEAR  STAR Award    

Cash 

Stock Options 

Restricted Stock Units (for BGP participants only)  no forfeiture
provision 

Deferred Compensation (for BGP participants only) 

September  YEAR  BGP Award   

Three-Year Restricted Stock Units (50% of award required in this form) 

Cash, Restricted Stock Units   no forfeiture provision, or Deferred
Compensation (50% of award subject to this election) 

Attached you will find an election form to be returned to  NAME . Please note Form A now includes
the Senior Executive Officer Recoupment Policy.

It is strongly recommended that you consult legal/tax/financial advisors to determine the
appropriate award form(s) for your personal situation.

While your selection will be given consideration, it is not binding on the Company until approved
by the Compensation and Leadership Development Committee of the Board of Directors. IF YOU MISS THE
 DATE  DEADLINE, CURRENT LAWS REQUIRED US TO DEFAULT YOUR AWARDS. The Key Manager Stock Option
grant will default to 100% stock options; the STAR award will default to 100% cash; and the BGP
award will default to 50% 3-year RSUs and 50% cash.

GLOBAL EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Appendix 2

Payment Preference Materials for Key Manager Awards  

YEAR  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION AWARD FORM PREFERENCES 

You must be an active employee as of  DATE  to receive any non-cash award  

All elections are irrevocable after  DATE   

YEAR  Key Manager Long-Term Incentive Award Payable  DATE   YEAR  

Stock Options

%

Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)

% 
(maximum of 50%)

Shares will deliver
100% in  YEARS  years
( DATE ,  YEAR ). Key
Manager RSUs have no
dividend equivalents
and no deferral past 5
years. 

Total

100%

YEAR  STAR Award Payable  DATE   YEAR  

Cash

%

Stock Options

%

Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)

%

(Select year you
want shares delivered, e.g.
 YEAR , or one year after
retirement.) 

Deferred Compensation

%

Total

100%

YEAR  BGP Award Payable  DATE   YEAR   (Complete for remaining 50%)

3-Year Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
  
(If you leave the Company within 3
years of grant for reasons other
than retirement, you forfeit these
units.) 

50% (required)

(Select
year you want
shares delivered,
e.g.  three years
after grant date,
any year later than
three years after
grant date, or one
year after
retirement  

Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)

%

(Select
year you want
shares delivered,
e.g.,  YEAR , or
one year after
retirement) 

Cash

%

Deferred Compensation

%

Total

100%

PLEASE NOTE: Any election by you to delay the settlement date of your RSUs does not in any way
alter or amend the terms of The Procter   Gamble Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan and/or the
Statement of Terms and Conditions for Restricted Stock Units pursuant to which the subject RSUs
were granted.

Your signature below indicates your agreement that any awards granted or paid pursuant to the STAR
and/or BGP programs will be subject to the terms of the Senior Executive Officer Recoupment Policy.
This Policy provides that in the event of a significant restatement of financial results, if
compensation paid pursuant to STAR and/or BGP would have been lower based on restated results, the
Compensation and Leadership Development Committee may seek to recoup from the senior executive
officers some or all of the compensation paid pursuant to STAR and/or BGP. A copy of the policy is
available from  NAME .

Signature) 

(Date)

Return form to  NAME .

Appendix 3

Form RTN 

INSERT DATE 

INSERT NAME 

Subject:
Award of Restricted Stock Units 

This is to advise you that The Procter   Gamble Company, an Ohio corporation, is awarding you with
Restricted Stock Units, on the dates and in the amounts listed below, pursuant to The Procter  
Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan, and subject to the attached Statement of Terms
and Conditions Form RTN.

Grant Date:

INSERT DATE OF GRANT  

Forfeiture Date:

INSERT DATE FORFEITURE ENDS  

Original Settlement Date:

INSERT DATE RSUs BECOME SHARES  

Number of Restricted Stock Units:

INSERT NUMBER GRANTED  

Paragraph 3(a) of Statement of Terms and Conditions Form RTN  is/is not  waived.

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY

James J. Johnson, Secretary 
For the Compensation Committee

I hereby accept the Award of Restricted Stock Units set forth above in accordance with and subject to
the terms of The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan and the attached Statement
of Terms and Conditions for Restricted Stock Units, with which I am familiar. I agree that the Award of
Restricted Stock Units, The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan, and the attached
Statement of Terms and Conditions for Restricted Stock Units together constitute an agreement between the
Company and me in accordance with the terms thereof and hereof, and I further agree that any legal action
related to this Award of Restricted Stock Units may be brought in any federal or state court located in
Hamilton County, Ohio, USA, and I hereby accept the jurisdiction of these courts and consent to service
of process from said courts solely for legal actions related to this Award of Restricted Stock Units. 

I hereby reject the Award of Restricted Stock Units set forth above. 

Date

Signature

P G E-mail Address

Appendix 3

Form RTN 

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY 

STATEMENT OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS 

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE 2001 STOCK AND INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 

The Restricted Stock Units awarded to you as set forth in the letter you received from the
Company (your  Award Letter ), and your ownership thereof, are subject to the following terms and
conditions.

1. Definitions. 

For purposes of this Statement of Terms and Conditions for Restricted Stock Units ( Terms and
Conditions ), all capitalized terms not defined in these Terms and Conditions will have the
meanings described in The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ),
and the following terms will have the following meanings.

(a)   Data   has the meaning described in Section 10;

(b)   Disability   means termination of employment under the permanent disability provision of
any retirement plan of Procter   Gamble;

(c)   Dividend Equivalents   has the meaning described in Section 

(d)   Forfeiture Date   is the date identified as such in your Award Letter;

(e)   Forfeiture Period   means the period from the Grant Date until the Forfeiture Date.

(f)   Grant Date   means the date a Restricted Stock Unit was awarded to you, as identified in
your Award Letter;

(g)   Original Settlement Date   is the date identified as such in your Award Letter, as
adjusted, if applicable, by Section 

(h)   Post-Forfeiture Period   means the period from the Forfeiture Date until the Original
Settlement Date;

(i)   Procter   Gamble   means the Company and/or its Subsidiaries;

(j)   Restricted Stock Unit   means an unfunded, unsecured promise by the Company, in
accordance with these Terms and Conditions and the provisions of the Plan, to issue to you
one share of Common Stock on the Original Settlement Date.

2. Transfer and Restrictions. 

(a) Neither Restricted Stock Units nor your interest in them may be sold, exchanged,
transferred, pledged, hypothecated, given or otherwise disposed of by you at any time,
except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Any attempted transfer of a
Restricted Stock Unit, whether voluntary or involuntary on your part, will result in the
immediate forfeiture to the Company, and cancellation, of the Restricted Stock Unit
(including all rights to receive Dividend Equivalents).

Appendix 3

Form RTN 

(b) During the Forfeiture Period, your Restricted Stock Units (including all rights to
receive Dividend Equivalents) will be forfeited and cancelled if you leave your employment
with Procter   Gamble for any reason, except due to: (i) your Disability; or (ii) in
certain circumstances, your Special Separation. In the event of your Disability during the
Forfeiture Period, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the Company, your Original
Settlement Date will automatically and immediately become, without any further action by you
or the Company, the date of your Disability. In the event of your Special Separation during
the Forfeiture Period, your Restricted Stock Units will be forfeited and cancelled unless
otherwise agreed to in writing by the Company.

(c) During the Post-Forfeiture Period, if you leave your employment with Procter   Gamble
for any reason other than: (i) Disability; (ii) Special Separation; or (iii) retirement in
accordance with the provisions of any appropriate retirement plan of Procter   Gamble, your
Original Settlement Date will automatically and immediately become, without any further
action by you or the Company, the date of your termination of employment. In the event of
your Disability or Special Separation during the Post-Forfeiture Period, unless otherwise
agreed to in writing by the Company, your Original Settlement Date will automatically and
immediately become, without any further action by you or the Company, the date of your
Disability or Special Separation, as applicable. In the event of your retirement in
accordance with the provisions of any appropriate retirement plan of Procter   Gamble during
the Post-Forfeiture Period, you will retain your Restricted Stock Units subject to the Plan
and these Terms and Conditions.

(d) Upon your death or the occurrence of a Change in Control at any time while you hold
Restricted Stock Units and/or Dividend Equivalents, your Original Settlement Date will
automatically and immediately become, without any further action by you or the Company, the
date of your death or of the Change in Control, as applicable.

(e) From time to time, the Company and/or the Committee may establish procedures with which
you must comply in order to accept an award of Restricted Stock Units, or to settle your
Restricted Stock Units, including requiring you to do so by means of electronic signature,
or charging you an administrative fee for doing so.

(f) Once your Restricted Stock Units have been settled by delivery to you of an equivalent
number of shares of Common Stock, the Restricted Stock Units will have no further value,
force or effect and you will cease to receive Dividend Equivalents associated with the
Restricted Stock Units.

3. Confidentiality and Non-Competition 

(a) In order to better protect the goodwill of Procter   Gamble and to prevent the
disclosure of Procter   Gamble s trade secrets and confidential information, and thereby
help ensure the long-term success of Procter   Gamble s business, in consideration of your
being awarded Restricted Stock Units, you (without prior written consent of Procter  
Gamble), will not engage in any activity or provide any services, whether as a director,
manager, supervisor, employee, advisor, consultant or otherwise, for a period of three (3)
years following the date your employment with Procter   Gamble is terminated in connection
with the manufacture, development, advertising, promotion, or sale of any product which is
the same as or similar to or competitive with any products of Procter   Gamble (including
both existing products as well as products known to you, as a consequence of your employment
with Procter   Gamble, to be in development):

Appendix 3

Form RTN 

(i) with respect to which your work has been directly concerned at any time during
the two (2) years preceding the termination of your employment with Procter  
Gamble; or

(ii) with respect to which, during the two (2) years preceding the termination of
your employment with Procter   Gamble, you, as a consequence of your job performance
and duties, acquired knowledge of trade secrets or other confidential information of
Procter   Gamble.

For purposes of this Section 3(a), it will be conclusively presumed that you have knowledge
of information you were directly exposed to through actual receipt or review of memoranda or
documents containing such information, or through attendance at meetings at which such
information was discussed or disclosed.

(b) The provisions of Section 3(a) are not in lieu of, but are in addition to your
continuing obligation (which you acknowledge by accepting an award of Restricted Stock
Units) to not use or disclose Procter   Gamble s trade secrets or confidential information
known to you until any particular trade secret or confidential information becomes generally
known (through no fault of yours). As used in this Section 3(b),  generally known  means
known throughout the domestic United States industry or, if you have job responsibilities
partially or entirely outside of the United States, the appropriate domestic United States
and/or appropriate foreign country or countries  industry(ies). Information regarding
products in development, in test marketing, or being marketed or promoted in a discrete
geographic region, which information Procter   Gamble is considering for broader use, will
not be deemed to be  generally known  until such broader use is actually commercially
implemented. As used in this Section,  trade secrets or other confidential information 
also includes personnel knowledge about a manager, or managers, of Procter   Gamble or its
subsidiaries gained in the course of your employment with Procter   Gamble or its
subsidiaries (including personnel ratings or rankings, manager or peer evaluations,
performance records, special skills or abilities, compensation, work and development plans,
training, nature of specific project and work assignments, or specialties developed as a
result of such assignments) which directly or indirectly affords you a confidential basis to
solicit, encourage, or participate in soliciting any manager, or managers, of Procter  
Gamble or any subsidiary to terminate his or her relationship with Procter   Gamble or that
subsidiary.

(c) By accepting an award of Restricted Stock Units, you agree that, if you were, without
authority, to use or disclose Procter   Gamble s trade secrets or confidential information
or threaten to do so, Procter   Gamble would be entitled to injunctive and other appropriate
relief to prevent you from doing so. You further agree that the harm caused to Procter  
Gamble by the breach or anticipated breach of this Section 3(c) is, by its nature,
irreparable because, among other things, it is not readily susceptible of proof as to the
monetary harm that would ensue. You agree that any interim or final equitable
relief entered by a court of competent jurisdiction will, at the request of Procter  
Gamble, be entered on consent and enforced by any court having jurisdiction over you,
without prejudice to any rights you or Procter   Gamble may have to appeal from the
proceedings which resulted in any grant of such relief.

(d) If any of the provisions contained in Sections 3(a) through (c) are for any reason,
whether by application of existing law or law which may develop after your acceptance of an
award of Restricted Stock Units, determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
overly broad as to scope of activity, duration, or territory, then by accepting an award of
Restricted Stock Units you agree to join Procter   Gamble in requesting such court to
construe such provision by limiting or reducing it so as to be enforceable to the extent
compatible with then-applicable law. If any one or more of the provisions contained in

Appendix 3

Form RTN 

Section 3(a) through (c) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid,
void or unenforceable, then the remainder of the provisions will remain in full force and
effect and will not be affected, impaired or invalidated in any way.

4. Dividend Equivalents. 

As a holder of Restricted Stock Units, during the period from the Grant Date until the
Original Settlement Date, each time a cash dividend or other cash distribution is paid with
respect to Common Stock, you will receive additional Restricted Stock Units ( Dividend
Equivalents ). The number of such additional Restricted Stock Units will be determined as
follows: multiply the number of Restricted Stock Units currently held by the per share
amount of the cash dividend or other cash distribution on the Common Stock, and then divide
the result by the price of the Common Stock on the date of the dividend or distribution.
These Dividend Equivalent Restricted Stock Units will be subject to the same terms and
conditions as the original Restricted Stock Units that gave rise to them, including
forfeiture and settlement terms, except that if there is a fractional number of Dividend
Equivalent Restricted Stock Units on the date they are to be settled, you will receive one
share of Common Stock for the fractional Dividend Equivalent Restricted Stock Units.

5. Voting and Other Shareholder Rights. 

A Restricted Stock Unit is not a share of Common Stock, and thus you are not entitled to any
voting, dividend or other rights as a shareholder of the Company with respect to the Restricted
Stock Units you hold.

6. Adjustments in Case of Stock Dividends, Stock Splits, Etc. 

In the event of a future reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend,
combination of shares, merger, consolidation, rights offering, share exchange, reclassification,
distribution, spin-off, or other change affecting the corporate structure, capitalization or Common
Stock, the number of Restricted Stock Units you hold will be adjusted appropriately and equitably
to prevent dilution or enlargement of your rights.

7. Tax Withholding. 

To the extent Procter   Gamble is required to withhold federal, state, local or foreign taxes
in connection with your Restricted Stock Units or Dividend Equivalents, the Committee may require
you to make such arrangements as Procter   Gamble may deem appropriate for the payment of such
taxes required to be withheld, including without limitation, relinquishment of some of the shares
of Common Stock that would otherwise be given to you. However, regardless of any action taken by
Procter   Gamble with respect to any income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, or other tax, by
accepting a Restricted Stock Unit or Dividend Equivalent, you acknowledge that the ultimate
liability for any such tax owed by you is and remains your responsibility, and that Procter  
Gamble makes no representations about the tax treatment of your Restricted Stock Units or Dividend
Equivalents, and does not commit to structure any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units or Dividend
Equivalents to reduce or eliminate your tax liability.

8. Suspension Periods and Termination. 

The Company reserves the right from time to time to temporarily suspend your right to settle
your Restricted Stock Units for shares of Common Stock where such suspension is deemed by the
Company as necessary or appropriate.

Appendix 3

Form RTN 

9. Procter   Gamble Right to Terminate Employment and Other Remedies. 

(a) Nothing in these Terms and Conditions, or the fact that you have been awarded Restricted
Stock Units, affects in any way the right or power of Procter   Gamble to terminate your
employment at any time for any reason, with or without cause, or precludes Procter   Gamble
from taking any action or enforcing any remedy available to it with respect to any action or
conduct on your part. Without limiting the previous sentence, the Committee may, for
example, suspend or terminate any outstanding Restricted Stock Units for actions taken by
you if the Committee determines that you have acted significantly contrary to the best
interests of Procter   Gamble or its subsidiaries. For purposes of this paragraph, an
action taken  significantly contrary to the best interests of Procter   Gamble or its
subsidiaries  includes without limitation any action taken or threatened by you that the
Committee determines has, or is reasonably likely to have, a significant adverse impact on
the reputation, goodwill, stability, operation, personnel retention and management, or
business of Procter   Gamble or any subsidiary. This paragraph is in addition to any remedy
Procter   Gamble or a subsidiary may have at law or in equity, including without limitation
injunctive and other appropriate relief.

(b) By accepting a Restricted Stock Unit, you acknowledge that: (i) the Plan is established
voluntarily by The Procter   Gamble Company, is discretionary in nature, and may be amended,
suspended or terminated at any time; (ii) the award of Restricted Stock Units is voluntary
and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards
of Restricted Stock Units, or benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock Units, even if Restricted
Stock Units have been awarded repeatedly in the past; (iii) all decisions with respect to
future Restricted Stock Unit awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;
(iv) your participation in the Plan is voluntary; (v) Restricted Stock Units are an
extraordinary item and not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any
purpose, including without limitation calculating any termination,
severance, resignation, redundancy, or end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-service
awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments; (vi) in the event that your
employer is not the Company, the award of Restricted Stock Units will not be interpreted to
form an employment relationship with the Company; and, furthermore, the award of Restricted
Stock Units will not be interpreted to form an employment contract with any Procter   Gamble
entity; (vii) the future value of Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with
certainty; and (viii) no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from
termination or forfeiture of Restricted Stock Units, or diminution in value of Restricted
Stock Units or Common Stock received in settlement thereof, and you irrevocably release
Procter   Gamble from any such claim that may arise.

10. Data Privacy. 

By accepting a Restricted Stock Unit, you explicitly and unambiguously consent to the
collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in
this document by and among, as applicable, any Procter   Gamble entity or third party for the
purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand
that Procter   Gamble holds certain personal information about you, including without limitation
your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other
identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in
a Procter   Gamble entity, details of all options, Restricted Stock Units, or any other entitlement
to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for
the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ( Data ). You understand that
Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and
management of the Plan, that these recipients may be

Appendix 3

Form RTN 

located in your country or elsewhere, and that
the recipient s country may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country.
You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients
of Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to
receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes
of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite
transfer of such Data to any broker or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any
shares of Common Stock in connection with the settlement of your Restricted Stock Units. You
understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage
your participation in the plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request
additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments
to Data, or refuse or withdraw the consents contained in this paragraph, in any case without cost,
by contacting in writing your local human resources representative. You understand, however, that
refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. For more
information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand
that you may contact your local human resources representative.

11. Notices. 

(a) Any notice to Procter   Gamble that is required or appropriate with respect to
Restricted Stock Units held by you must be in writing and addressed to:

The Procter   Gamble Company 
ATTN: Corporate Secretary s Office 
P.O. Box 599 
Cincinnati, OH 45201

or such other address as Procter   Gamble may from time to time provide to you in writing.

(b) Any notice to you that is required or appropriate with respect to Restricted Stock Units
held or to be awarded to you will be provided to you in written or electronic form at any
physical or electronic mail address for you that is on file with Procter   Gamble.

12. Successors and Assigns. 

These Terms and Conditions are binding on, and inure to the benefit of, (a) the Company and
its successors and assigns; and (b) you and, if applicable, the representative of your estate.

13. Governing Law. 

The validity, interpretation, performance and enforcement of these Terms and Conditions, the
Plan and your Restricted Stock Units will be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, U.S.A.
without giving effect to any other jurisdiction s conflicts of law principles. With respect to any
dispute concerning these Terms and Conditions, the Plan and your Restricted Stock Units, you
consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the federal or state courts located in Hamilton County,
Ohio, U.S.A.

14. The Plan. 

All Restricted Stock Units awarded to you have been awarded under the Plan. Certain
provisions of the Plan may have been repeated or emphasized in these Terms and Conditions;

Appendix 3

Form RTN 

however,
all terms of the Plan apply to you and your Restricted Stock Units whether or not they have been
called out in these Terms and Conditions.

15. Effect of These Terms and Conditions. 

These Terms and Conditions and the terms of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by
reference, describe the contractual rights awarded to you in the form of Restricted Stock Units,
and the obligations imposed on you in connection with those rights. No right exists with respect
to Restricted Stock Units except as described in these Terms and Conditions and the Plan.

Appendix 4

Form KM 

INSERT DATE 

INSERT NAME 

Subject: Award of Restricted Stock Units 

This is to advise you that The Procter   Gamble Company, an Ohio corporation, is awarding you with
Restricted Stock Units, on the dates and in the amounts listed below, pursuant to The Procter  
Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan, and subject to the attached Statement of Terms
and Conditions Form KM.

Grant Date:

INSERT DATE OF GRANT  

Forfeiture Date:

INSERT DATE FORFEITURE ENDS  

Original Settlement Date:

INSERT DATE RSUs BECOME SHARES  

Number of Restricted Stock Units:

INSERT NUMBER GRANTED  

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY 

James J. Johnson, Secretary 

For the Compensation Committee 

I hereby accept the Award of Restricted Stock Units set forth above in accordance with and subject to
the terms of The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan and the attached Statement
of Terms and Conditions for Restricted Stock Units, with which I am familiar. I agree that the Award of
Restricted Stock Units, The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan, and the attached
Statement of Terms and Conditions for Restricted Stock Units together constitute an agreement between the
Company and me in accordance with the terms thereof and hereof, and I further agree that any legal action
related to this Award of Restricted Stock Units may be brought in any federal or state court located in
Hamilton County, Ohio, USA, and I hereby accept the jurisdiction of these courts and consent to service
of process from said courts solely for legal actions related to this Award of Restricted Stock Units. 

I hereby reject the Award of Restricted Stock Units set forth above. 

Date

Signature

P G E-mail Address 

Appendix 4

Form KM 

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY 

STATEMENT OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR KEY MANAGER RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS 

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE 2001 STOCK AND INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 

The Restricted Stock Units awarded to you as set forth in the letter you received from the
Company (your  Award Letter ), and your ownership thereof, are subject to the following terms and
conditions.

1. Definitions. 

For purposes of this Statement of Terms and Conditions for Restricted Stock Units ( Terms and
Conditions ), all capitalized terms not defined in these Terms and Conditions will have the
meanings described in The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ),
and the following terms will have the following meanings.

(a)   Data   has the meaning described in Section 

(b)   Forfeiture Date   is the date identified as such in your Award Letter;

(c)   Forfeiture Period   means the period from the Grant Date until the Forfeiture Date.

(d)   Grant Date   means the date a Restricted Stock Unit was awarded to you, as identified in
your Award Letter;

(e)   Original Settlement Date   is the date identified as such in your Award Letter, as
adjusted, if applicable, by Section 

(f)   Procter   Gamble   means the Company and/or its Subsidiaries;

(g)   Restricted Stock Unit   means an unfunded, unsecured promise by the Company, in
accordance with these Terms and Conditions and the provisions of the Plan, to issue to you
one share of Common Stock on the Original Settlement Date.

2. Transfer and Restrictions. 

(a) Neither Restricted Stock Units nor your interest in them may be sold, exchanged,
transferred, pledged, hypothecated, given or otherwise disposed of by you at any time,
except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Any attempted transfer of a
Restricted Stock Unit, whether voluntary or involuntary on your part, will result in the
immediate forfeiture to the Company, and cancellation, of the Restricted Stock Unit.

(b) During the Forfeiture Period, your Restricted Stock Units will be forfeited and
cancelled if you leave your employment with Procter   Gamble for any reason, except due to:
(i) Retirement in accordance with the provisions of any appropriate Retirement plan of
Procter   Gamble that occurs more than six months from the Grant Date; or (ii)
Special Separation that occurs more than six months from the Grant Date. In the event of
your Retirement or Special Separation that occurs more than six months from the Grant Date,
you will retain your Restricted Stock Units subject to the Plan and these terms and
conditions.

Appendix 4

Form KM 

(c) Upon your death or the occurrence of a Change in Control at any time while you hold
Restricted Stock Units, your Original Settlement Date will automatically and immediately
become, without any further action by you or the Company, the date of your death or of the
Change in Control, as applicable.

(d) From time to time, the Company and/or the Committee may establish procedures with which
you must comply in order to accept an award of Restricted Stock Units, or to settle your
Restricted Stock Units, including requiring you to do so by means of electronic signature,
or charging you an administrative fee for doing so.

(e) Once your Restricted Stock Units have been settled by delivery to you of an equivalent
number of shares of Common Stock, the Restricted Stock Units will have no further value,
force or effect.

3. Confidentiality and Non-Competition 

(a) In order to better protect the goodwill of Procter   Gamble and to prevent the
disclosure of Procter   Gamble s trade secrets and confidential information, and thereby
help ensure the long-term success of Procter   Gamble s business, in consideration of your
being awarded Restricted Stock Units, you (without prior written consent of Procter  
Gamble), will not engage in any activity or provide any services, whether as a director,
manager, supervisor, employee, advisor, consultant or otherwise, for a period of three (3)
years following the date your employment with Procter   Gamble is terminated in connection
with the manufacture, development, advertising, promotion, or sale of any product which is
the same as or similar to or competitive with any products of Procter   Gamble (including
both existing products as well as products known to you, as a consequence of your employment
with Procter   Gamble, to be in development):

(i) with respect to which your work has been directly concerned at any time during
the two (2) years preceding the termination of your employment with Procter  
Gamble; or

(ii) with respect to which, during the two (2) years preceding the termination of
your employment with Procter   Gamble, you, as a consequence of your job performance
and duties, acquired knowledge of trade secrets or other confidential information of
Procter   Gamble.

For purposes of this Section 3(a), it will be conclusively presumed that you have knowledge
of information you were directly exposed to through actual receipt or review of memoranda or
documents containing such information, or through attendance at meetings at which such
information was discussed or disclosed.

(b) The provisions of Section 3(a) are not in lieu of, but are in addition to your
continuing obligation (which you acknowledge by accepting an award of Restricted Stock
Units) to not use or disclose Procter   Gamble s trade secrets or confidential information
known to you until any particular trade secret or confidential information becomes generally
known (through no fault of yours). As used in this Section 3(b),  generally known  means
known throughout the domestic United States industry or, if you have job responsibilities
partially or entirely outside of the United States, the appropriate domestic United States
and/or appropriate foreign country or countries  industry(ies). Information regarding
products in development, in test marketing, or being marketed or promoted in a discrete
geographic region, which information Procter   Gamble is considering for broader use, will
not be deemed to be  generally known  until such broader use is actually commercially
implemented. As used in this Section,  trade secrets or other

Appendix 4

Form KM 

confidential information 
also includes personnel knowledge about a manager, or managers, of Procter   Gamble or its
subsidiaries gained in the course of your employment with Procter   Gamble or its
subsidiaries (including personnel ratings or rankings, manager or peer evaluations,
performance records, special skills or abilities, compensation, work and development plans,
training, nature of specific project and work assignments, or specialties developed as a
result of such assignments) which directly or indirectly affords you a confidential basis to
solicit, encourage, or participate in soliciting any manager, or managers, of Procter  
Gamble or any subsidiary to terminate his or her relationship with Procter   Gamble or that
subsidiary.

(c) By accepting an award of Restricted Stock Units, you agree that, if you were, without
authority, to use or disclose Procter   Gamble s trade secrets or confidential information
or threaten to do so, Procter   Gamble would be entitled to injunctive and other appropriate
relief to prevent you from doing so. You further agree that the harm caused to Procter  
Gamble by the breach or anticipated breach of this Section 3(c) is, by its nature,
irreparable because, among other things, it is not readily susceptible of proof as to the
monetary harm that would ensue. You agree that any interim or final equitable relief
entered by a court of competent jurisdiction will, at the request of Procter   Gamble, be
entered on consent and enforced by any court having jurisdiction over you, without prejudice
to any rights you or Procter   Gamble may have to appeal from the proceedings which resulted
in any grant of such relief.

(d) If any of the provisions contained in Sections 3(a) through (c) are for any reason,
whether by application of existing law or law which may develop after your acceptance of an
award of Restricted Stock Units, determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
overly broad as to scope of activity, duration, or territory, then by accepting an award of
Restricted Stock Units you agree to join Procter   Gamble in requesting such court to
construe such provision by limiting or reducing it so as to be enforceable to the extent
compatible with then-applicable law. If any one or more of the provisions contained in
Section 3(a) through (c) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid,
void or unenforceable, then the remainder of the provisions will remain in full force and
effect and will not be affected, impaired or invalidated in any way.

4. Voting and Other Shareholder Rights. 

A Restricted Stock Unit is not a share of Common Stock, and thus you are not entitled to any
voting, dividend or other rights as a shareholder of the Company with respect to the Restricted
Stock Units you hold.

5. Adjustments in Case of Stock Splits, Etc. 

In the event of a future reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, combination of shares,
merger, consolidation, rights offering, share exchange, reclassification, distribution, spin-off,
or other change affecting the corporate structure, capitalization or Common Stock, the number of
Restricted Stock Units you hold will be adjusted appropriately and equitably to prevent dilution or
enlargement of your rights.

6. Tax Withholding. 

To the extent Procter   Gamble is required to withhold federal, state, local or foreign taxes
in connection with your Restricted Stock Units, the Committee may require you to make such
arrangements as Procter   Gamble may deem appropriate for the payment of such taxes required to be
withheld, including without limitation, relinquishment of some of the shares of Common Stock that
would otherwise be given to you. However, regardless of any action taken

Appendix 4

Form KM 

by Procter   Gamble with
respect to any income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, or other tax, by accepting a Restricted
Stock Unit, you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for any such tax owed by you is and remains
your responsibility, and that Procter   Gamble makes no representations about the tax treatment of
your Restricted Stock Units, and does not commit to structure any aspect of the Restricted Stock
Units to reduce or eliminate your tax liability.

7. Suspension Periods and Termination. 

The Company reserves the right from time to time to temporarily suspend your right to settle
your Restricted Stock Units for shares of Common Stock where such suspension is deemed by the
Company as necessary or appropriate.

8. Procter   Gamble Right to Terminate Employment and Other Remedies. 

(a) Nothing in these Terms and Conditions, or the fact that you have been awarded Restricted
Stock Units, affects in any way the right or power of Procter   Gamble to terminate your
employment at any time for any reason, with or without cause, or precludes Procter   Gamble
from taking any action or enforcing any remedy available to it with respect to any action or
conduct on your part. Without limiting the previous sentence, the Committee may, for
example, suspend or terminate any outstanding Restricted Stock Units for actions taken by
you if the Committee determines that you have acted significantly contrary to the best
interests of Procter   Gamble or its subsidiaries. For purposes of this paragraph, an
action taken  significantly contrary to the best interests of Procter   Gamble or its
subsidiaries  includes without limitation any action taken or threatened by you that the
Committee determines has, or is reasonably likely to have, a significant adverse impact on
the reputation, goodwill, stability, operation, personnel retention and management, or
business of Procter   Gamble or any subsidiary. This paragraph is in addition to any remedy
Procter   Gamble or a subsidiary may have at law or in equity, including without limitation
injunctive and other appropriate relief.

(b) By accepting a Restricted Stock Unit, you acknowledge that: (i) the Plan is established
voluntarily by The Procter   Gamble Company, is discretionary in nature, and may be amended,
suspended or terminated at any time; (ii) the award of Restricted Stock Units is voluntary
and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right
to receive future awards of Restricted Stock Units, or benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock
Units, even if Restricted Stock Units have been awarded repeatedly in the past; (iii) all
decisions with respect to future Restricted Stock Unit awards, if any, will be at the sole
discretion of the Company; (iv) your participation in the Plan is voluntary; (v) Restricted
Stock Units are an extraordinary item and not part of normal or expected compensation or
salary for any purpose, including without limitation calculating any termination, severance,
resignation, redundancy, or end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension
or retirement benefits or similar payments; (vi) in the event that your employer is not the
Company, the award of Restricted Stock Units will not be interpreted to form an employment
relationship with the Company; and, furthermore, the award of Restricted Stock Units will
not be interpreted to form an employment contract with any Procter   Gamble entity; (vii)
the future value of Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty; and
(viii) no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from termination or
forfeiture of Restricted Stock Units, or diminution in value of Restricted Stock Units or
Common Stock received in settlement thereof, and you irrevocably release Procter   Gamble
from any such claim that may arise.

9. Data Privacy. 

Appendix 4

Form KM 

By accepting a Restricted Stock Unit, you explicitly and unambiguously consent to the
collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in
this document by and among, as applicable, any Procter   Gamble entity or third party for the
purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand
that Procter   Gamble holds certain personal information about you, including without limitation
your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other
identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in
a Procter   Gamble entity, details of all options, Restricted Stock Units, or any other entitlement
to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for
the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ( Data ). You understand that
Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and
management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, and that
the recipient s country may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country.
You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients
of Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to
receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes
of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite
transfer of such Data to any broker or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any
shares of Common Stock in connection with the settlement of your Restricted Stock Units. You
understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage
your participation in the plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request
additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments
to Data, or refuse or withdraw the consents contained in this paragraph, in any case without cost,
by contacting in writing your local human resources representative. You understand, however, that
refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. For more
information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand
that you may contact your local human resources representative.

10. Notices. 

(a) Any notice to Procter   Gamble that is required or appropriate with respect to
Restricted Stock Units held by you must be in writing and addressed to:

The Procter   Gamble Company 
ATTN: Corporate Secretary s Office 
P.O. Box 599 
Cincinnati, OH 45201

or such other address as Procter   Gamble may from time to time provide to you in writing.

(b) Any notice to you that is required or appropriate with respect to Restricted Stock Units
held or to be awarded to you will be provided to you in written or electronic form at any
physical or electronic mail address for you that is on file with Procter   Gamble.

11. Successors and Assigns. 

These Terms and Conditions are binding on, and inure to the benefit of, (a) the Company and
its successors and assigns; and (b) you and, if applicable, the representative of your estate.

12. Governing Law. 

Appendix 4

Form KM 

The validity, interpretation, performance and enforcement of these Terms and Conditions, the
Plan and your Restricted Stock Units will be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, U.S.A.
without giving effect to any other jurisdiction s conflicts of law principles. With respect to any
dispute concerning these Terms and Conditions, the Plan and your Restricted Stock Units, you
consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the federal or state courts located in Hamilton County,
Ohio, U.S.A.

13. The Plan. 

All Restricted Stock Units awarded to you have been awarded under the Plan. Certain
provisions of the Plan may have been repeated or emphasized in these Terms and Conditions; however,
all terms of the Plan apply to you and your Restricted Stock Units whether or not they have been
called out in these Terms and Conditions.

14. Effect of These Terms and Conditions. 

These Terms and Conditions and the terms of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by
reference, describe the contractual rights awarded to you in the form of Restricted Stock Units,
and the obligations imposed on you in connection with those rights. No right exists with respect
to Restricted Stock Units except as described in these Terms and Conditions and the Plan.

Appendix 5

Form KMG 

INSERT DATE 

INSERT NAME 

Subject: Award of Restricted Stock Units 

This is to advise you that The Procter   Gamble Company, an Ohio corporation, is awarding you with
Restricted Stock Units, on the dates and in the amounts listed below, pursuant to The Gillette
Company 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan, and subject to the attached Statement of Terms and
Conditions Form KMG.

Grant Date:

INSERT DATE OF GRANT  

Forfeiture Date:

INSERT DATE FORFEITURE ENDS  

Original Settlement Date:

INSERT DATE RSUs BECOME SHARES  

Number of Restricted Stock Units:

INSERT NUMBER GRANTED  

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY 

James J. Johnson, Secretary 

For the Compensation Committee 

I hereby accept the Award of Restricted Stock Units set forth above in accordance with and subject to
the terms of The Gillette Company 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the attached Statement of Terms and
Conditions for Restricted Stock Units, with which I am familiar. I agree that the Award of Restricted
Stock Units, The Gillette Company 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan, and the attached Statement of Terms and
Conditions for Restricted Stock Units together constitute an agreement between the Company and me in
accordance with the terms thereof and hereof, and I further agree that any legal action related to this
Award of Restricted Stock Units may be brought in any federal or state court located in Hamilton County,
Ohio, USA, and I hereby accept the jurisdiction of these courts and consent to service of process from
said courts solely for legal actions related to this Award of Restricted Stock Units. 

I hereby reject the Award of Restricted Stock Units set forth above. 

Date

Signature

P G E-mail Address 

Appendix 5

Form KMG 

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY 

STATEMENT OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR KEY MANAGER RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS 

THE GILLETTE COMPANY 2004 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 

The Restricted Stock Units awarded to you as set forth in the letter you received from the
Company (your  Award Letter ), and your ownership thereof, are subject to the following terms and
conditions.

1. Definitions. 

For purposes of this Statement of Terms and Conditions for Restricted Stock Units ( Terms and
Conditions ), all capitalized terms not defined in these Terms and Conditions will have the
meanings described in The Gillette Company 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), and the
following terms will have the following meanings.

(a)   Data   has the meaning described in Section 

(b)   Forfeiture Date   is the date identified as such in your Award Letter;

(c)   Forfeiture Period   means the period from the Grant Date until the Forfeiture Date.

(d)   Grant Date   means the date a Restricted Stock Unit was awarded to you, as identified in
your Award Letter;

(e)   Original Settlement Date   is the date identified as such in your Award Letter, as
adjusted, if applicable, by Section 

(f)   Procter   Gamble   means the Company and/or its Subsidiaries;

(g)   Restricted Stock Unit   means an unfunded, unsecured promise by the Company, in
accordance with these Terms and Conditions and the provisions of the Plan, to issue to you
one share of Common Stock on the Original Settlement Date.

2. Transfer and Restrictions. 

(a) Neither Restricted Stock Units nor your interest in them may be sold, exchanged,
transferred, pledged, hypothecated, given or otherwise disposed of by you at any time, except
by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Any attempted transfer of a Restricted
Stock Unit, whether voluntary or involuntary on your part, will result in the immediate
forfeiture to the Company, and cancellation, of the Restricted Stock Unit.

(b) During the Forfeiture Period, your Restricted Stock Units will be forfeited and cancelled
if you leave your employment with Procter   Gamble for any reason, except due to: (i)
Retirement in accordance with the provisions of any appropriate Retirement plan of Procter  
Gamble that occurs more than six months from the Grant Date; or (ii) Special Separation that
occurs more than six months from the Grant Date. In the event of your Retirement or Special
Separation that occurs more than six
months from the Grant Date, you will retain your Restricted Stock Units subject to the Plan
and these terms and conditions.

Appendix 5

Form KMG 

(c) Upon your death or the occurrence of a Change in Control at any time while you hold
Restricted Stock Units, your Original Settlement Date will automatically and immediately
become, without any further action by you or the Company, the date of your death or of the
Change in Control, as applicable.

(d) From time to time, the Company and/or the Committee may establish procedures with which
you must comply in order to accept an award of Restricted Stock Units, or to settle your
Restricted Stock Units, including requiring you to do so by means of electronic signature, or
charging you an administrative fee for doing so.

(e) Once your Restricted Stock Units have been settled by delivery to you of an equivalent
number of shares of Common Stock, the Restricted Stock Units will have no further value,
force or effect.

3. Confidentiality and Non-Competition 

(a) In order to better protect the goodwill of Procter   Gamble and to prevent the disclosure
of Procter   Gamble s trade secrets and confidential information, and thereby help ensure the
long-term success of Procter   Gamble s business, in consideration of your being awarded
Restricted Stock Units, you (without prior written consent of Procter   Gamble), will not
engage in any activity or provide any services, whether as a director, manager, supervisor,
employee, advisor, consultant or otherwise, for a period of three (3) years following the
date your employment with Procter   Gamble is terminated in connection with the manufacture,
development, advertising, promotion, or sale of any product which is the same as or similar
to or competitive with any products of Procter   Gamble (including both existing products as
well as products known to you, as a consequence of your employment with Procter   Gamble, to
be in development):

(i) with respect to which your work has been directly concerned at any time during the
two (2) years preceding the termination of your employment with Procter   Gamble; or

(ii) with respect to which, during the two (2) years preceding the termination of your
employment with Procter   Gamble, you, as a consequence of your job performance and
duties, acquired knowledge of trade secrets or other confidential information of
Procter   Gamble.

For purposes of this Section 3(a), it will be conclusively presumed that you have knowledge
of information you were directly exposed to through actual receipt or review of memoranda or
documents containing such information, or through attendance at meetings at which such
information was discussed or disclosed.

(b) The provisions of Section 3(a) are not in lieu of, but are in addition to your continuing
obligation (which you acknowledge by accepting an award of Restricted Stock Units) to not use
or disclose Procter   Gamble s trade secrets or confidential information known to you until
any particular trade secret or confidential information becomes generally known (through no
fault of yours). As used in this Section 3(b),  generally known  means known throughout the
domestic United States industry or, if you have job responsibilities partially or entirely
outside of the United States, the appropriate domestic United States and/or appropriate
foreign country or countries  industry(ies). Information regarding products in development,
in test marketing, or being marketed or promoted in a discrete geographic region, which
information Procter   Gamble is considering for broader use, will not be deemed to be
 generally known  until such broader use is actually commercially implemented. As used in
this Section,  trade secrets or other

Appendix 5

Form KMG 

confidential information  also includes personnel
knowledge about a manager, or managers, of Procter   Gamble or its subsidiaries gained in the
course of your employment with Procter   Gamble or its subsidiaries (including personnel
ratings or rankings, manager or peer evaluations, performance records, special skills or
abilities, compensation, work and development plans, training, nature of specific project and
work assignments, or specialties developed as a result of such assignments) which directly or
indirectly affords you a confidential basis to solicit, encourage, or participate in
soliciting any manager, or managers, of Procter   Gamble or any subsidiary to terminate his
or her relationship with Procter   Gamble or that subsidiary.

(c) By accepting an award of Restricted Stock Units, you agree that, if you were, without
authority, to use or disclose Procter   Gamble s trade secrets or confidential information or
threaten to do so, Procter   Gamble would be entitled to injunctive and other appropriate
relief to prevent you from doing so. You further agree that the harm caused to Procter  
Gamble by the breach or anticipated breach of this Section 3(c) is, by its nature,
irreparable because, among other things, it is not readily susceptible of proof as to the
monetary harm that would ensue. You agree that any interim or final equitable relief entered
by a court of competent jurisdiction will, at the request of Procter   Gamble, be entered on
consent and enforced by any court having jurisdiction over you, without prejudice to any
rights you or Procter   Gamble may have to appeal from the proceedings which resulted in any
grant of such relief.

(d) If any of the provisions contained in Sections 3(a) through (c) are for any reason,
whether by application of existing law or law which may develop after your acceptance of an
award of Restricted Stock Units, determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be overly
broad as to scope of activity, duration, or territory, then by accepting an award of
Restricted Stock Units you agree to join Procter   Gamble in requesting such court to
construe such provision by limiting or reducing it so as to be enforceable to the extent
compatible with then-applicable law. If any one or more of the provisions contained in
Section 3(a) through (c) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid,
void or unenforceable, then the remainder of the provisions will remain in full force and
effect and will not be affected, impaired or invalidated in any way.

4. Voting and Other Shareholder Rights. 

A Restricted Stock Unit is not a share of Common Stock, and thus you are not entitled to any
voting, dividend or other rights as a shareholder of the Company with respect to the Restricted
Stock Units you hold.

5. Adjustments in Case of Stock Splits, Etc. 

In the event of a future reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, combination of shares,
merger, consolidation, rights offering, share exchange, reclassification, distribution, spin-off,
or other change affecting the corporate structure, capitalization or Common Stock, the number of
Restricted Stock Units you hold will be adjusted appropriately and equitably to prevent dilution or
enlargement of your rights.

6. Tax Withholding. 

To the extent Procter   Gamble is required to withhold federal, state, local or foreign taxes
in connection with your Restricted Stock Units, the Committee may require you to make such
arrangements as Procter   Gamble may deem appropriate for the payment of such taxes required to be
withheld, including without limitation, relinquishment of some of the shares of Common Stock that
would otherwise be given to you. However, regardless of any action taken

Appendix 5

Form KMG 

by Procter   Gamble with
respect to any income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, or other tax, by accepting a Restricted
Stock Unit, you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for any such tax owed by you is and remains
your responsibility, and that Procter   Gamble makes no representations about the tax treatment of
your Restricted Stock Units, and does not commit to structure any aspect of the Restricted Stock
Units to reduce or eliminate your tax liability.

7. Suspension Periods and Termination. 

The Company reserves the right from time to time to temporarily suspend your right to settle
your Restricted Stock Units for shares of Common Stock where such suspension is deemed by the
Company as necessary or appropriate.

8. Procter   Gamble Right to Terminate Employment and Other Remedies. 

(a) Nothing in these Terms and Conditions, or the fact that you have been awarded Restricted
Stock Units, affects in any way the right or power of Procter   Gamble to terminate your
employment at any time for any reason, with or without cause, or precludes Procter   Gamble
from taking any action or enforcing any remedy available to it with respect to any action or
conduct on your part. Without limiting the previous sentence, the Committee may, for
example, suspend or terminate any outstanding Restricted Stock Units for actions taken by you
if the Committee determines that you have acted significantly contrary to the best interests
of Procter   Gamble or its subsidiaries. For purposes of this paragraph, an action taken
 significantly contrary to the best interests of Procter   Gamble or its subsidiaries 
includes without limitation any action taken or threatened by you that the Committee
determines has, or is reasonably likely to have, a significant adverse impact on the
reputation, goodwill, stability, operation, personnel retention and management, or business
of Procter   Gamble or any subsidiary. This paragraph is in addition to any remedy Procter  
Gamble or a subsidiary may have at law or in equity, including without limitation injunctive
and other appropriate relief.

(b) By accepting a Restricted Stock Unit, you acknowledge that: (i) the Plan is established
voluntarily by The Procter   Gamble Company, is discretionary in nature, and may be amended,
suspended or terminated at any time; (ii) the award of Restricted Stock Units is voluntary
and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards of
Restricted Stock Units, or benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock Units, even if Restricted
Stock Units have been awarded repeatedly in the past; (iii) all decisions with respect to
future Restricted Stock Unit awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;
(iv) your participation in the Plan is voluntary; (v) Restricted Stock Units are an
extraordinary item and not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose,
including without limitation calculating any termination, severance, resignation, redundancy,
or end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or
similar payments; (vi) in the event that your employer is not the Company, the award of
Restricted Stock Units will not be interpreted to form an employment relationship with the
Company; and, furthermore, the award of Restricted Stock Units will not be interpreted to
form an employment contract with any Procter   Gamble entity; (vii) the future value of
Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty; and (viii) no claim or
entitlement to compensation or damages arises from termination or
forfeiture of Restricted Stock Units, or diminution in value of Restricted Stock Units or
Common Stock received in settlement thereof, and you irrevocably release Procter   Gamble
from any such claim that may arise.

9. Data Privacy. 

Appendix 5

Form KMG 

By accepting a Restricted Stock Unit, you explicitly and unambiguously consent to the
collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in
this document by and among, as applicable, any Procter   Gamble entity or third party for the
purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand
that Procter   Gamble holds certain personal information about you, including without limitation
your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other
identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in
a Procter   Gamble entity, details of all options, Restricted Stock Units, or any other entitlement
to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for
the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ( Data ). You understand that
Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and
management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, and that
the recipient s country may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country.
You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients
of Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to
receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes
of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite
transfer of such Data to any broker or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any
shares of Common Stock in connection with the settlement of your Restricted Stock Units. You
understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage
your participation in the plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request
additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments
to Data, or refuse or withdraw the consents contained in this paragraph, in any case without cost,
by contacting in writing your local human resources representative. You understand, however, that
refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. For more
information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand
that you may contact your local human resources representative.

10. Notices. 

(a) Any notice to Procter   Gamble that is required or appropriate with respect to Restricted
Stock Units held by you must be in writing and addressed to:

The Procter   Gamble Company 
ATTN: Corporate Secretary s Office 
P.O. Box 599 
Cincinnati, OH 45201

or such other address as Procter   Gamble may from time to time provide to you in writing.

(b) Any notice to you that is required or appropriate with respect to Restricted Stock Units
held or to be awarded to you will be provided to you in written or electronic form at any
physical or electronic mail address for you that is on file with Procter   Gamble.

11. Successors and Assigns. 

These Terms and Conditions are binding on, and inure to the benefit of, (a) the Company and
its successors and assigns; and (b) you and, if applicable, the representative of your estate.

Appendix 5

Form KMG 

12. Governing Law. 

The validity, interpretation, performance and enforcement of these Terms and Conditions, the
Plan and your Restricted Stock Units will be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, U.S.A.
without giving effect to any other jurisdiction s conflicts of law principles. With respect to any
dispute concerning these Terms and Conditions, the Plan and your Restricted Stock Units, you
consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the federal or state courts located in Hamilton County,
Ohio, U.S.A.

13. The Plan. 

All Restricted Stock Units awarded to you have been awarded under the Plan. Certain
provisions of the Plan may have been repeated or emphasized in these Terms and Conditions; however,
all terms of the Plan apply to you and your Restricted Stock Units whether or not they have been
called out in these Terms and Conditions.

14. Effect of These Terms and Conditions. 

These Terms and Conditions and the terms of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by
reference, describe the contractual rights awarded to you in the form of Restricted Stock Units,
and the obligations imposed on you in connection with those rights. No right exists with respect
to Restricted Stock Units except as described in these Terms and Conditions and the Plan.

Appendix 6

Form KMW 

INSERT DATE 

INSERT NAME 

Subject:  
       
      Award of Restricted Stock Units  

This is to advise you that The Procter   Gamble Company, an Ohio corporation, is awarding you with
Restricted Stock Units, on the dates and in the amounts listed below, pursuant to The Procter  
Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan, and subject to the attached Statement of Terms
and Conditions Form KMW.

Grant Date:

INSERT DATE OF GRANT  

Forfeiture Date:

INSERT DATE FORFEITURE ENDS  

Original Settlement Date:

INSERT DATE RSUs BECOME SHARES  

Number of Restricted Stock Units:

INSERT NUMBER GRANTED  

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY 

James J. Johnson, Secretary 

For the Compensation Committee 

I hereby accept the Award of Restricted Stock Units set forth above in accordance with and
subject to the terms of The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan and the
attached Statement of Terms and Conditions for Restricted Stock Units, with which I am
familiar. I agree that the Award of Restricted Stock Units, The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock
and Incentive Compensation Plan, and the attached Statement of Terms and Conditions for
Restricted Stock Units together constitute an agreement between the Company and me in
accordance with the terms thereof and hereof, and I further agree that any legal action related
to this Award of Restricted Stock Units may be brought in any federal or state court located in
Hamilton County, Ohio, USA, and I hereby accept the jurisdiction of these courts and consent to
service of process from said courts solely for legal actions related to this Award of
Restricted Stock Units. 

I hereby reject the Award of Restricted Stock Units set forth above. 

Date

Signature

P G E-mail Address 

Appendix 6

Form KMW 

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY 

STATEMENT OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR KEY MANAGER RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS 

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE 2001 STOCK AND INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 

The Restricted Stock Units awarded to you as set forth in the letter you received from the
Company (your  Award Letter ), and your ownership thereof, are subject to the following terms and
conditions.

1. Definitions. 

For purposes of this Statement of Terms and Conditions for Restricted Stock Units ( Terms and
Conditions ), all capitalized terms not defined in these Terms and Conditions will have the
meanings described in The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ),
and the following terms will have the following meanings.

(a)   Data   has the meaning described in Section 

(b)   Forfeiture Date   is the date identified as such in your Award Letter;

(c)   Forfeiture Period   means the period from the Grant Date until the Forfeiture Date.

(d)   Grant Date   means the date a Restricted Stock Unit was awarded to you, as identified in
your Award Letter;

(e)
  Original Settlement Date   is the date identified as
such in your Award Letter, as adjusted,  if applicable, by Section 

(f)   Procter   Gamble   means the Company and/or its Subsidiaries;

(g)   Restricted Stock Unit   means an unfunded, unsecured promise by the Company, in
accordance with these Terms and Conditions and the provisions of the Plan, to issue to you
one share of Common Stock on the Original Settlement Date.

2. Transfer and Restrictions. 

(a) Neither Restricted Stock Units nor your interest in them may be sold, exchanged,
transferred, pledged, hypothecated, given or otherwise disposed of by you at any time,
except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Any attempted transfer of a
Restricted Stock Unit, whether voluntary or involuntary on your part, will result in the
immediate forfeiture to the Company, and cancellation, of the Restricted Stock Unit.

(b) During the Forfeiture Period, your Restricted Stock Units will be forfeited and
cancelled if you leave your employment with Procter   Gamble for any reason, except due to:
(i) Retirement in accordance with the provisions of any appropriate Retirement plan of
Procter   Gamble; or (ii) Special Separation. In the event of your Retirement or Special
Separation, you will retain your Restricted Stock Units subject to the Plan and these terms
and conditions.

Appendix 6

Form KMW 

(c) Upon your death or the occurrence of a Change in Control at any time while you hold
Restricted Stock Units, your Original Settlement Date will automatically and
immediately become, without any further action by you or the Company, the date of your death
or of the Change in Control, as applicable.

(d) From time to time, the Company and/or the Committee may establish procedures with which
you must comply in order to accept an award of Restricted Stock Units, or to settle your
Restricted Stock Units, including requiring you to do so by means of electronic signature,
or charging you an administrative fee for doing so.

(e) Once your Restricted Stock Units have been settled by delivery to you of an equivalent
number of shares of Common Stock, the Restricted Stock Units will have no further value,
force or effect.

3. Confidentiality and Non-Competition 

(a) In order to better protect the goodwill of Procter   Gamble and to prevent the
disclosure of Procter   Gamble s trade secrets and confidential information, and thereby
help ensure the long-term success of Procter   Gamble s business, in consideration of your
being awarded Restricted Stock Units, you (without prior written consent of Procter  
Gamble), will not engage in any activity or provide any services, whether as a director,
manager, supervisor, employee, advisor, consultant or otherwise, for a period of three (3)
years following the date your employment with Procter   Gamble is terminated in connection
with the manufacture, development, advertising, promotion, or sale of any product which is
the same as or similar to or competitive with any products of Procter   Gamble (including
both existing products as well as products known to you, as a consequence of your employment
with Procter   Gamble, to be in development):

(i) with respect to which your work has been directly concerned at any time during
the two (2) years preceding the termination of your employment with Procter  
Gamble; or

(ii) with respect to which, during the two (2) years preceding the termination of
your employment with Procter   Gamble, you, as a consequence of your job performance
and duties, acquired knowledge of trade secrets or other confidential information of
Procter   Gamble.

For purposes of this Section 3(a), it will be conclusively presumed that you have knowledge
of information you were directly exposed to through actual receipt or review of memoranda or
documents containing such information, or through attendance at meetings at which such
information was discussed or disclosed.

(b) The provisions of Section 3(a) are not in lieu of, but are in addition to your
continuing obligation (which you acknowledge by accepting an award of Restricted Stock
Units) to not use or disclose Procter   Gamble s trade secrets or confidential information
known to you until any particular trade secret or confidential information becomes generally
known (through no fault of yours). As used in this Section 3(b),  generally known  means
known throughout the domestic United States industry or, if you have job responsibilities
partially or entirely outside of the United States, the appropriate domestic United States
and/or appropriate foreign country or countries  industry(ies). Information regarding
products in development, in test marketing, or being marketed or promoted in a discrete
geographic region, which information Procter   Gamble is considering for broader use, will
not be deemed to be  generally known  until such broader use is actually commercially
implemented. As used in this Section,  trade secrets or other confidential information 
also includes personnel knowledge about a manager, or

Appendix 6

Form KMW 

managers,
of Procter   Gamble or its
subsidiaries gained in the course of your employment with Procter   Gamble or its
subsidiaries (including personnel ratings or rankings, manager or peer evaluations,
performance records, special skills or abilities,
compensation, work and development plans, training, nature of specific project and work
assignments, or specialties developed as a result of such assignments) which directly or
indirectly affords you a confidential basis to solicit, encourage, or participate in
soliciting any manager, or managers, of Procter   Gamble or any subsidiary to terminate his
or her relationship with Procter   Gamble or that subsidiary.

(c) By accepting an award of Restricted Stock Units, you agree that, if you were, without
authority, to use or disclose Procter   Gamble s trade secrets or confidential information
or threaten to do so, Procter   Gamble would be entitled to injunctive and other appropriate
relief to prevent you from doing so. You further agree that the harm caused to Procter  
Gamble by the breach or anticipated breach of this Section 3(c) is, by its nature,
irreparable because, among other things, it is not readily susceptible of proof as to the
monetary harm that would ensue. You agree that any interim or final equitable relief
entered by a court of competent jurisdiction will, at the request of Procter   Gamble, be
entered on consent and enforced by any court having jurisdiction over you, without prejudice
to any rights you or Procter   Gamble may have to appeal from the proceedings which resulted
in any grant of such relief.

(d) If any of the provisions contained in Sections 3(a) through (c) are for any reason,
whether by application of existing law or law which may develop after your acceptance of an
award of Restricted Stock Units, determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
overly broad as to scope of activity, duration, or territory, then by accepting an award of
Restricted Stock Units you agree to join Procter   Gamble in requesting such court to
construe such provision by limiting or reducing it so as to be enforceable to the extent
compatible with then-applicable law. If any one or more of the provisions contained in
Section 3(a) through (c) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid,
void or unenforceable, then the remainder of the provisions will remain in full force and
effect and will not be affected, impaired or invalidated in any way.

4. Voting and Other Shareholder Rights. 

A Restricted Stock Unit is not a share of Common Stock, and thus you are not entitled to any
voting, dividend or other rights as a shareholder of the Company with respect to the Restricted
Stock Units you hold.

5. Adjustments in Case of Stock Splits, Etc. 

In the event of a future reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, combination of shares,
merger, consolidation, rights offering, share exchange, reclassification, distribution, spin-off,
or other change affecting the corporate structure, capitalization or Common Stock, the number of
Restricted Stock Units you hold will be adjusted appropriately and equitably to prevent dilution or
enlargement of your rights.

6. Tax Withholding. 

To the extent Procter   Gamble is required to withhold federal, state, local or foreign taxes
in connection with your Restricted Stock Units, the Committee may require you to make such
arrangements as Procter   Gamble may deem appropriate for the payment of such taxes required to be
withheld, including without limitation, relinquishment of some of the shares of Common Stock that
would otherwise be given to you. However, regardless of any action taken by Procter   Gamble with
respect to any income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, or other tax,

Appendix 6

Form KMW 

by accepting a Restricted
Stock Unit, you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for any such tax owed by you is and remains
your responsibility, and that Procter   Gamble makes no representations about the tax treatment of
your Restricted Stock Units, and does not commit to structure any aspect of the Restricted Stock
Units to reduce or eliminate your tax liability.

7. Suspension Periods and Termination. 

The Company reserves the right from time to time to temporarily suspend your right to settle
your Restricted Stock Units for shares of Common Stock where such suspension is deemed by the
Company as necessary or appropriate.

8. Procter   Gamble Right to Terminate Employment and Other Remedies. 

(a) Nothing in these Terms and Conditions, or the fact that you have been awarded Restricted
Stock Units, affects in any way the right or power of Procter   Gamble to terminate your
employment at any time for any reason, with or without cause, or precludes Procter   Gamble
from taking any action or enforcing any remedy available to it with respect to any action or
conduct on your part. Without limiting the previous sentence, the Committee may, for
example, suspend or terminate any outstanding Restricted Stock Units for actions taken by
you if the Committee determines that you have acted significantly contrary to the best
interests of Procter   Gamble or its subsidiaries. For purposes of this paragraph, an
action taken  significantly contrary to the best interests of Procter   Gamble or its
subsidiaries  includes without limitation any action taken or threatened by you that the
Committee determines has, or is reasonably likely to have, a significant adverse impact on
the reputation, goodwill, stability, operation, personnel retention and management, or
business of Procter   Gamble or any subsidiary. This paragraph is in addition to any remedy
Procter   Gamble or a subsidiary may have at law or in equity, including without limitation
injunctive and other appropriate relief.

(b) By accepting a Restricted Stock Unit, you acknowledge that: (i) the Plan is established
voluntarily by The Procter   Gamble Company, is discretionary in nature, and may be amended,
suspended or terminated at any time; (ii) the award of Restricted Stock Units is voluntary
and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards
of Restricted Stock Units, or benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock Units, even if Restricted
Stock Units have been awarded repeatedly in the past; (iii) all decisions with respect to
future Restricted Stock Unit awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;
(iv) your participation in the Plan is voluntary; (v) Restricted Stock Units are an
extraordinary item and not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any
purpose, including without limitation calculating any termination, severance, resignation,
redundancy, or end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement
benefits or similar payments; (vi) in the event that your employer is not the Company, the
award of Restricted Stock Units will not be interpreted to form an employment relationship
with the Company; and, furthermore, the award of Restricted Stock Units will not be
interpreted to form an employment contract with any Procter   Gamble entity; (vii) the
future value of Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty; and (viii)
no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from termination or forfeiture of
Restricted Stock Units, or diminution in value of Restricted Stock Units or Common Stock
received in settlement thereof, and you irrevocably release Procter   Gamble from any such
claim that may arise.

9. Data Privacy. 

Appendix 6

Form KMW 

By accepting a Restricted Stock Unit, you explicitly and unambiguously consent to the
collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in
this document by and among, as applicable, any Procter   Gamble entity or third party for the
purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand
that Procter   Gamble holds certain personal information about you, including without limitation
your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social
insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of
stock or directorships held in a Procter   Gamble entity, details of all options, Restricted Stock
Units, or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested
or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan
( Data ). You understand that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the
implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in
your country or elsewhere, and that the recipient s country may have different data privacy laws
and protections than your country. You understand that you may request a list with the names and
addresses of any potential recipients of Data by contacting your local human resources
representative. You authorize the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the
Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing
your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data to any broker or
other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any shares of Common Stock in connection with
the settlement of your Restricted Stock Units. You understand that Data will be held only as long
as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the plan. You understand
that you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and
processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data, or refuse or withdraw the consents
contained in this paragraph, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing your local human
resources representative. You understand, however, that refusing or withdrawing your consent may
affect your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your
refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human
resources representative.

10. Notices. 

(a) Any notice to Procter   Gamble that is required or appropriate with respect to
Restricted Stock Units held by you must be in writing and addressed to:

The Procter   Gamble Company 
ATTN: Corporate Secretary s Office 
P.O. Box 599 
Cincinnati, OH 45201

or such other address as Procter   Gamble may from time to time provide to you in writing.

(b) Any notice to you that is required or appropriate with respect to Restricted Stock Units
held or to be awarded to you will be provided to you in written or electronic form at any
physical or electronic mail address for you that is on file with Procter   Gamble.

11. Successors and Assigns. 

These Terms and Conditions are binding on, and inure to the benefit of, (a) the Company and
its successors and assigns; and (b) you and, if applicable, the representative of your estate.

12. Governing Law. 

Appendix 6

Form KMW 

The validity, interpretation, performance and enforcement of these Terms and Conditions, the
Plan and your Restricted Stock Units will be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, U.S.A.
without giving effect to any other jurisdiction s conflicts of law principles. With respect to any
dispute concerning these Terms and Conditions, the Plan and your Restricted Stock Units, you
consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the federal or state courts located in Hamilton County,
Ohio, U.S.A.

13. The Plan. 

All Restricted Stock Units awarded to you have been awarded under the Plan. Certain
provisions of the Plan may have been repeated or emphasized in these Terms and Conditions; however,
all terms of the Plan apply to you and your Restricted Stock Units whether or not they have been
called out in these Terms and Conditions.

14. Effect of These Terms and Conditions. 

These Terms and Conditions and the terms of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by
reference, describe the contractual rights awarded to you in the form of Restricted Stock Units,
and the obligations imposed on you in connection with those rights. No right exists with respect
to Restricted Stock Units except as described in these Terms and Conditions and the Plan.

Appendix 7

Form OPN 

INSERT DATE 

INSERT NAME 

Subject: Award of Restricted Stock Units 

This is to advise you that The Procter   Gamble Company, an Ohio corporation, is awarding you with
Restricted Stock Units, on the dates and in the amounts listed below, pursuant to The Procter  
Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan, and subject to the attached Statement of Terms
and Conditions Form OPN.

Grant Date:

INSERT DATE OF GRANT  

Original Settlement Date:

INSERT DATE RSUs BECOME SHARES  

Number of Restricted Stock Units:

INSERT NUMBER GRANTED  

Paragraph 3(a) of Statement of Terms and Conditions Form OPN  is/is not  waived.

As you will see from the Statement of Terms and Conditions Form OPN, under certain circumstances
you may agree with The Procter   Gamble Company to delay the settlement of your Restricted Stock
Units beyond the Original Settlement Date. You may want to consult your personal tax advisor
before making a decision about this matter.

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY 

James J. Johnson, Secretary 

For the Compensation Committee 

I hereby accept the Award of Restricted Stock Units set forth above in accordance with and
subject to the terms of The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan and the
attached Statement of Terms and Conditions for Restricted Stock Units, with which I am
familiar. I agree that the Award of Restricted Stock Units, The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock
and Incentive Compensation Plan, and the attached Statement of Terms and Conditions for
Restricted Stock Units together constitute an agreement between the Company and me in
accordance with the terms thereof and hereof, and I further agree that any legal action related
to this Award of Restricted Stock Units may be brought in any federal or state court located in
Hamilton County, Ohio, USA, and I hereby accept the jurisdiction of these courts and consent to
service of process from said courts solely for legal actions related to this Award of
Restricted Stock Units. 

I hereby reject the Award of Restricted Stock Units set forth above. 

Date

Signature

P G E-mail Address 

Appendix 7

Form OPN 

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY 

STATEMENT OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS 

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE 2001 STOCK AND INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 

The Restricted Stock Units awarded to you as set forth in the letter you received from the
Company (your  Award Letter ), and your ownership thereof, are subject to the following terms and
conditions.

1. Definitions. 

For purposes of this Statement of Terms and Conditions for Restricted Stock Units ( Terms and
Conditions ), all capitalized terms not defined in these Terms and Conditions will have the
meanings described in The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ),
and the following terms will have the following meanings.

(a)   Agreed Settlement Date   has the meaning described in Section 2(b);

(b)   Data   has the meaning described in Section 10;

(c)   Disability   means termination of employment under the permanent disability provision of
any retirement plan of Procter   Gamble;

(d)   Dividend Equivalents   has the meaning described in Section 

(e)   Grant Date   means the date a Restricted Stock Unit was awarded to you, as identified in
your Award Letter;

(f)   Original Settlement Date   is the date identified as such in your Award Letter, as
adjusted, if applicable, by Section 

(g)   Procter   Gamble   means the Company and/or its Subsidiaries;

(h)   Restricted Stock Unit   means an unfunded, unsecured promise by the Company, in
accordance with these Terms and Conditions and the provisions of the Plan, to issue to you
one share of Common Stock on the later of the Original Settlement Date or the Agreed
Settlement Date.

(i)   Settlement Period   means the period from the Grant Date until the later of the Original
Settlement Date or the Agreed Settlement Date.

2. Transfer and Restrictions. 

(a) Neither Restricted Stock Units nor your interest in them may be sold, exchanged,
transferred, pledged, hypothecated, given or otherwise disposed of by you at any time,
except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Any attempted transfer of a
Restricted Stock Unit, whether voluntary or involuntary on your part, will result in the
immediate forfeiture to the Company, and cancellation, of the Restricted Stock Unit
(including all rights to Dividend Equivalents).

(b) At any time at least one calendar year prior to the Original Settlement Date, you and
the Company may agree to postpone the date on which you are entitled to receive

Appendix 7

Form OPN 

one share of
Common Stock for each Restricted Stock Unit you hold, according to the
deferral terms in place at the time, and provided the new date (the  Agreed Settlement
Date ) is at least five years from the Original Settlement Date. During the Settlement
Period, if you leave your employment with Procter   Gamble for any reason other than: (i)
Disability; (ii) Special Separation; or (iii) retirement in accordance with the provisions
of any appropriate retirement plan of Procter   Gamble, your Original Settlement Date or
Agreed Settlement Date, as applicable, will automatically and immediately become, without
any further action by you or the Company, the date of your termination of employment. In
the event of your Disability or Special Separation during the Settlement Period, unless
otherwise agreed to in writing by the Company, your Original Settlement Date or Agreed
Settlement Date, as applicable, will automatically and immediately become, without any
further action by you or the Company, the date of your Disability or Special Separation, as
applicable. In the event of your retirement in accordance with the provisions of any
appropriate retirement plan of Procter   Gamble during the Settlement Period, you will
retain your Restricted Stock Units subject to the Plan and these Terms and Conditions.

(c) Upon your death or the occurrence of a Change in Control at any time while you hold
Restricted Stock Units and/or Dividend Equivalents, your Original Settlement Date or Agreed
Settlement Date, as applicable, will automatically and immediately become, without any
further action by you or the Company, the date of your death or of the Change in Control, as
applicable.

(d) From time to time, the Company and/or the Committee may establish procedures with which
you must comply in order to accept an award of Restricted Stock Units, to agree to an Agreed
Settlement Date, or to settle your Restricted Stock Units, including requiring you to do so
by means of electronic signature, or charging you an administrative fee for doing so.

(e) Once your Restricted Stock Units have been settled by delivery to you of an equivalent
number of shares of Common Stock, the Restricted Stock Units will have no further value,
force or effect and you will cease to receive Dividend Equivalents associated with the
Restricted Stock Units.

3. Confidentiality and Non-Competition 

(a) In order to better protect the goodwill of Procter   Gamble and to prevent the
disclosure of Procter   Gamble s trade secrets and confidential information, and thereby
help ensure the long-term success of Procter   Gamble s business, in consideration of your
being awarded Restricted Stock Units, you (without prior written consent of Procter  
Gamble), will not engage in any activity or provide any services, whether as a director,
manager, supervisor, employee, advisor, consultant or otherwise, for a period of three (3)
years following the date your employment with Procter   Gamble is terminated in connection
with the manufacture, development, advertising, promotion, or sale of any product which is
the same as or similar to or competitive with any products of Procter   Gamble (including
both existing products as well as products known to you, as a consequence of your employment
with Procter   Gamble, to be in development):

(i) with respect to which your work has been directly concerned at any time during
the two (2) years preceding the termination of your employment with Procter  
Gamble; or

(ii) with respect to which, during the two (2) years preceding the termination of
your employment with Procter   Gamble, you, as a consequence of your job

Appendix 7

Form OPN 

performance
and duties, acquired knowledge of trade secrets or other confidential information of
Procter   Gamble.

For purposes of this Section 3(a), it will be conclusively presumed that you have knowledge
of information you were directly exposed to through actual receipt or review of memoranda or
documents containing such information, or through attendance at meetings at which such
information was discussed or disclosed.

(b) The provisions of Section 3(a) are not in lieu of, but are in addition to your
continuing obligation (which you acknowledge by accepting an award of Restricted Stock
Units) to not use or disclose Procter   Gamble s trade secrets or confidential information
known to you until any particular trade secret or confidential information becomes generally
known (through no fault of yours). As used in this Section 3(b),  generally known  means
known throughout the domestic United States industry or, if you have job responsibilities
partially or entirely outside of the United States, the appropriate domestic United States
and/or appropriate foreign country or countries  industry(ies). Information regarding
products in development, in test marketing, or being marketed or promoted in a discrete
geographic region, which information Procter   Gamble is considering for broader use, will
not be deemed to be  generally known  until such broader use is actually commercially
implemented. As used in this Section,  trade secrets or other confidential information 
also includes personnel knowledge about a manager, or managers, of Procter   Gamble or its
subsidiaries gained in the course of your employment with Procter   Gamble or its
subsidiaries (including personnel ratings or rankings, manager or peer evaluations,
performance records, special skills or abilities, compensation, work and development plans,
training, nature of specific project and work assignments, or specialties developed as a
result of such assignments) which directly or indirectly affords you a confidential basis to
solicit, encourage, or participate in soliciting any manager, or managers, of Procter  
Gamble or any subsidiary to terminate his or her relationship with Procter   Gamble or that
subsidiary.

(c) By accepting an award of Restricted Stock Units, you agree that, if you were, without
authority, to use or disclose Procter   Gamble s trade secrets or confidential information
or threaten to do so, Procter   Gamble would be entitled to injunctive and other appropriate
relief to prevent you from doing so. You further agree that the harm caused to Procter  
Gamble by the breach or anticipated breach of this Section 3(c) is, by its nature,
irreparable because, among other things, it is not readily susceptible of proof as to the
monetary harm that would ensue. You agree that any interim or final equitable relief
entered by a court of competent jurisdiction will, at the request of Procter   Gamble, be
entered on consent and enforced by any court having jurisdiction over you, without prejudice
to any rights you or Procter   Gamble may have to appeal from the proceedings which resulted
in any grant of such relief.

(d) If any of the provisions contained in Sections 3(a) through (c) are for any reason,
whether by application of existing law or law which may develop after your acceptance of an
award of Restricted Stock Units, determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
overly broad as to scope of activity, duration, or territory, then by accepting an award of
Restricted Stock Units you agree to join Procter   Gamble in requesting such court to
construe such provision by limiting or reducing it so as to be enforceable to the extent
compatible with then-applicable law. If any one or more of the provisions contained in
Section 3(a) through (c) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid,
void or unenforceable, then the remainder of the provisions will remain in full force and
effect and will not be affected, impaired or invalidated in any way.

Appendix 7

Form OPN 

4. Dividend Equivalents. 

As a holder of Restricted Stock Units, during the Settlement period, each time a cash dividend
or other cash distribution is paid with respect to Common Stock, you will receive
additional Restricted Stock Units ( Dividend Equivalents ). The number of such additional
Restricted Stock Units will be determined as follows: multiply the number of Restricted Stock
Units currently held by the per share amount of the cash dividend or other cash distribution on the
Common Stock, and then divide the result by the price of the Common Stock on the date of the
dividend or distribution. These Dividend Equivalent Restricted Stock Units will be subject to the
same terms and conditions as the original Restricted Stock Units that gave rise to them, including
forfeiture and settlement terms, except that if there is a fractional number of Dividend Equivalent
Restricted Stock Units on the date they are to be settled, you will receive one share of Common
Stock for the fractional Dividend Equivalent Restricted Stock Units.

5. Voting and Other Shareholder Rights. 

A Restricted Stock Unit is not a share of Common Stock, and thus you are not entitled to any
voting, dividend or other rights as a shareholder of the Company with respect to the Restricted
Stock Units you hold.

6. Adjustments in Case of Stock Dividends, Stock Splits, Etc. 

In the event of a future reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend,
combination of shares, merger, consolidation, rights offering, share exchange, reclassification,
distribution, spin-off, or other change affecting the corporate structure, capitalization or Common
Stock, the number of Restricted Stock Units you hold will be adjusted appropriately and equitably
to prevent dilution or enlargement of your rights.

7. Tax Withholding. 

To the extent Procter   Gamble is required to withhold federal, state, local or foreign taxes
in connection with your Restricted Stock Units or Dividend Equivalents, the Committee may require
you to make such arrangements as Procter   Gamble may deem appropriate for the payment of such
taxes required to be withheld, including without limitation, relinquishment of some of the shares
of Common Stock that would otherwise be given to you. However, regardless of any action taken by
Procter   Gamble with respect to any income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, or other tax, by
accepting a Restricted Stock Unit or Dividend Equivalent, you acknowledge that the ultimate
liability for any such tax owed by you is and remains your responsibility, and that Procter  
Gamble makes no representations about the tax treatment of your Restricted Stock Units or Dividend
Equivalents, and does not commit to structure any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units or Dividend
Equivalents to reduce or eliminate your tax liability.

8. Suspension Periods and Termination. 

The Company reserves the right from time to time to temporarily suspend your right to settle
your Restricted Stock Units for shares of Common Stock where such suspension is deemed by the
Company as necessary or appropriate.

9. Procter   Gamble Right to Terminate Employment and Other Remedies. 

(a) Nothing in these Terms and Conditions, or the fact that you have been awarded Restricted
Stock Units, affects in any way the right or power of Procter   Gamble to terminate your
employment at any time for any reason, with or without cause, or

Appendix 7

Form OPN 

precludes Procter   Gamble
from taking any action or enforcing any remedy available to it with respect to any action or
conduct on your part. Without limiting the previous sentence, the Committee may, for
example, suspend or terminate any outstanding Restricted Stock Units for actions taken by
you if the Committee determines that you have acted significantly contrary to the best
interests of Procter   Gamble or its
subsidiaries. For purposes of this paragraph, an action taken  significantly contrary to
the best interests of Procter   Gamble or its subsidiaries  includes without limitation any
action taken or threatened by you that the Committee determines has, or is reasonably likely
to have, a significant adverse impact on the reputation, goodwill, stability, operation,
personnel retention and management, or business of Procter   Gamble or any subsidiary. This
paragraph is in addition to any remedy Procter   Gamble or a subsidiary may have at law or
in equity, including without limitation injunctive and other appropriate relief.

(b) By accepting a Restricted Stock Unit, you acknowledge that: (i) the Plan is established
voluntarily by the Company, is discretionary in nature, and may be amended, suspended or
terminated at any time; (ii) the award of Restricted Stock Units is voluntary and occasional
and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards of Restricted
Stock Units, or benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock Units, even if Restricted Stock Units
have been awarded repeatedly in the past; (iii) all decisions with respect to future
Restricted Stock Unit awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company; (iv)
your participation in the Plan is voluntary; (v) Restricted Stock Units are an extraordinary
item and not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose, including
without limitation calculating any termination, severance, resignation, redundancy, or
end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or
similar payments; (vi) in the event that your employer is not the Company, the award of
Restricted Stock Units will not be interpreted to form an employment relationship with the
Company; and, furthermore, the award of Restricted Stock Units will not be interpreted to
form an employment contract with any Procter   Gamble entity; (vii) the future value of
Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty; and (viii) no claim or
entitlement to compensation or damages arises from termination or forfeiture of Restricted
Stock Units, or diminution in value of Restricted Stock Units or Common Stock received in
settlement thereof, and you irrevocably release Procter   Gamble from any such claim that
may arise.

10. Data Privacy. 

By accepting a Restricted Stock Unit, you explicitly and unambiguously consent to the
collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in
this document by and among, as applicable, any Procter   Gamble entity or third party for the
purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand
that Procter   Gamble holds certain personal information about you, including without limitation
your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other
identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in
a Procter   Gamble entity, details of all options, Restricted Stock Units, or any other entitlement
to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for
the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ( Data ). You understand that
Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and
management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, and that
the recipient s country may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country.
You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients
of Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to
receive, possess, use, retain and

Appendix 7

Form OPN 

transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes
of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite
transfer of such Data to any broker or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any
shares of Common Stock in connection with the settlement of your Restricted Stock Units. You
understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage
your participation in the plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request
additional information
about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data, or refuse
or withdraw the consents contained in this paragraph, in any case without cost, by contacting in
writing your local human resources representative. You understand, however, that refusing or
withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information
on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you
may contact your local human resources representative.

11. Notices. 

(a) Any notice to Procter   Gamble that is required or appropriate with respect to
Restricted Stock Units held by you must be in writing and addressed to:

The Procter   Gamble Company 
ATTN: Corporate Secretary s Office 
P.O. Box 599 
Cincinnati, OH 45201

or such other address as Procter   Gamble may from time to time provide to you in writing.

(b) Any notice to you that is required or appropriate with respect to Restricted Stock Units
held or to be awarded to you will be provided to you in written or electronic form at any
physical or electronic mail address for you that is on file with Procter   Gamble.

12. Successors and Assigns. 

These Terms and Conditions are binding on, and inure to the benefit of, (a) the Company and
its successors and assigns; and (b) you and, if applicable, the representative of your estate.

13. Governing Law. 

The validity, interpretation, performance and enforcements of these Terms and Conditions, the
Plan and your Restricted Stock Units will be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, U.S.A.
without giving effect to any other jurisdiction s conflicts of law principles. With respect to any
dispute concerning these Terms and Conditions, the Plan and your Restricted Stock Units, you
consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the federal or state courts located in Hamilton County,
Ohio, U.S.A.

14. The Plan. 

All Restricted Stock Units awarded to you have been awarded under the Plan. Certain
provisions of the Plan may have been repeated or emphasized in these Terms and Conditions; however,
all terms of the Plan apply to you and your Restricted Stock Units whether or not they have been
called out in these Terms and Conditions.

15. Effect of These Terms and Conditions. 

Appendix 7

Form OPN 

These Terms and Conditions and the terms of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by
reference, describe the contractual rights awarded to you in the form of Restricted Stock Units,
and the obligations imposed on you in connection with those rights. No right exists with respect
to Restricted Stock Units except as described in these Terms and Conditions and the Plan.

Appendix 8

Form RTD 

INSERT DATE 

INSERT NAME 

Subject: Award of Restricted Stock Units 

This is to advise you that The Procter   Gamble Company, an Ohio corporation, is awarding you with
Restricted Stock Units, on the dates and in the amounts listed below, pursuant to The Procter  
Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan, and subject to the attached Statement of Terms
and Conditions Form RTD.

Grant Date:

INSERT DATE OF GRANT  

Forfeiture Date:

INSERT DATE FORFEITURE ENDS  

Original Settlement Date:

INSERT DATE RSUs BECOME SHARES  

Number of Restricted Stock Units:

INSERT NUMBER GRANTED  

Paragraph 3(a) of Statement of Terms and Conditions Form RTD  is/is not  waived.

As you will see from the Statement of Terms and Conditions Form RTD, under certain circumstances
you may agree with The Procter   Gamble Company to delay the settlement of your Restricted Stock
Units beyond the Original Settlement Date. You may want to consult your personal tax advisor
before making a decision about this matter.

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY 

James J. Johnson, Secretary 

For the Compensation Committee 

I hereby accept the Award of Restricted Stock Units set forth above in accordance with and
subject to the terms of The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan and the
attached Statement of Terms and Conditions for Restricted Stock Units, with which I am
familiar. I agree that the Award of Restricted Stock Units, The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock
and Incentive Compensation Plan, and the attached Statement of Terms and Conditions for
Restricted Stock Units together constitute an agreement between the Company and me in
accordance with the terms thereof and hereof, and I further agree that any legal action related
to this Award of Restricted Stock Units may be brought in any federal or state court located in
Hamilton County, Ohio, USA, and I hereby accept the jurisdiction of these courts and consent to
service of process from said courts solely for legal actions related to this Award of
Restricted Stock Units. 

I hereby reject the Award of Restricted Stock Units set forth above. 

Date

Signature

P G E-mail Address 

Appendix 8

Form RTD 

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY 

STATEMENT OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS 

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE 2001 STOCK AND INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 

The Restricted Stock Units awarded to you as set forth in the letter you received from the
Company (your  Award Letter ), and your ownership thereof, are subject to the following terms and
conditions.

1. Definitions. 

For purposes of this Statement of Terms and Conditions for Restricted Stock Units ( Terms and
Conditions ), all capitalized terms not defined in these Terms and Conditions will have the
meanings described in The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ),
and the following terms will have the following meanings.

(a)   Agreed Settlement Date   has the meaning described in Section 2(c);

(b)   Data   has the meaning described in Section 10;

(c)   Disability   means termination of employment under the permanent disability provision of
any retirement plan of Procter   Gamble;

(d)   Dividend Equivalents   has the meaning described in Section 

(e)   Forfeiture Date   is the date identified as such in your Award Letter;

(f)   Forfeiture Period   means the period from the Grant Date until the Forfeiture Date.

(g)   Grant Date   means the date a Restricted Stock Unit was awarded to you, as identified in
your Award Letter;

(h)   Original Settlement Date   is the date identified as such in your Award Letter, as
adjusted, if applicable, by Section 

(i)   Post-Forfeiture Period   means the period from the Forfeiture Date until the later of
the Original Settlement Date or the Agreed Settlement Date;

(j)   Procter   Gamble   means the Company and/or its Subsidiaries;

(k)   Restricted Stock Unit   means an unfunded, unsecured promise by the Company, in
accordance with these Terms and Conditions and the provisions of the Plan, to issue to you
one share of Common Stock on the later of the Original Settlement Date or the Agreed
Settlement Date.

2. Transfer and Restrictions. 

(a) Neither Restricted Stock Units nor your interest in them may be sold, exchanged,
transferred, pledged, hypothecated, given or otherwise disposed of by you at any time,
except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Any attempted transfer of a
Restricted Stock Unit, whether voluntary or involuntary on your part, will result in the

Appendix 8

Form RTD 

immediate forfeiture to the Company, and cancellation, of the Restricted Stock Unit
(including all rights to Dividend Equivalents).

(b) During the Forfeiture Period, your Restricted Stock Units (including all rights to
receive Dividend Equivalents) will be forfeited and cancelled if you leave your employment
with Procter   Gamble for any reason, except due to: (i) your Disability; (ii) your
retirement in accordance with the provisions of any appropriate retirement plan of Procter  
Gamble; or (iii) in certain circumstances, your Special Separation. In the event of your
Disability during the Forfeiture Period, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the
Company, your Original Settlement Date will automatically and immediately become, without
any further action by you or the Company, the date of your Disability. In the event of your
retirement in accordance with the provisions of any appropriate retirement plan of Procter  
Gamble during the Forfeiture Period, you will retain your Restricted Stock Units subject to
the Plan and these Terms and Conditions. In the event of your Special Separation during the
Forfeiture Period, your Restricted Stock Units will be forfeited and cancelled unless
otherwise agreed to in writing by the Company.

(c) At any time at least one calendar year prior to the Original Settlement Date, you and
the Company may agree to postpone the date on which you are entitled to receive one share of
Common Stock for each Restricted Stock Unit you hold, according to the deferral terms in
place at the time, and provided the new date (the  Agreed Settlement Date ) is at least five
years from the Original Settlement Date. During the Post-Forfeiture Period, if you leave
your employment with Procter   Gamble for any reason other than: (i) Disability; (ii)
Special Separation; or (iii) retirement in accordance with the provisions of any appropriate
retirement plan of Procter   Gamble, your Original Settlement Date or Agreed Settlement
Date, as applicable, will automatically and immediately become, without any further action
by you or the Company, the date of your termination of employment. In the event of your
Disability or Special Separation during the Post-Forfeiture period, unless otherwise agreed
to in writing by the Company, your Original Settlement Date or Agreed Settlement Date, as
applicable, will automatically and immediately become, without any further action by you or
the Company, the date of your Disability or Special Separation, as applicable. In the event
of your retirement in accordance with the provisions of any appropriate retirement plan of
Procter   Gamble during the Post-Forfeiture Period, you will retain your Restricted Stock
Units subject to the Plan and these Terms and Conditions.

(d) Upon your death or the occurrence of a Change in Control at any time while you hold
Restricted Stock Units and/or Dividend Equivalents, your Original Settlement Date or Agreed
Settlement Date, as applicable, will automatically and immediately become, without any
further action by you or the Company, the date of your death or of the Change in Control, as
applicable.

(e) From time to time, the Company and/or the Committee may establish procedures with which
you must comply in order to accept an award of Restricted Stock Units, to agree to an Agreed
Settlement Date, or to settle your Restricted Stock Units, including requiring you to do so
by means of electronic signature, or charging you an administrative fee for doing so.

(f) Once your Restricted Stock Units have been settled by delivery to you of an equivalent
number of shares of Common Stock, the Restricted Stock Units will have no further value,
force or effect and you will cease to receive Dividend Equivalents associated with the
Restricted Stock Units.

Appendix 8

Form RTD 

3. Confidentiality and Non-Competition 

(a) In order to better protect the goodwill of Procter   Gamble and to prevent the
disclosure of Procter   Gamble s trade secrets and confidential information, and thereby
help ensure the long-term success of Procter   Gamble s business, in consideration of your
being awarded Restricted Stock Units, you (without prior written consent of Procter  
Gamble), will not engage in any activity or provide any services, whether as a director,
manager, supervisor, employee, advisor, consultant or otherwise, for a period of three (3)
years following the date your employment with Procter   Gamble is terminated in connection
with the manufacture, development, advertising, promotion, or sale of any product which is
the same as or similar to or competitive with any products of Procter   Gamble (including
both existing products as well as products known to you, as a consequence of your employment
with Procter   Gamble, to be in development):

(i) with respect to which your work has been directly concerned at any time during
the two (2) years preceding the termination of your employment with Procter  
Gamble; or

(ii) with respect to which, during the two (2) years preceding the termination of
your employment with Procter   Gamble, you, as a consequence of your job performance
and duties, acquired knowledge of trade secrets or other confidential information of
Procter   Gamble.

For purposes of this Section 3(a), it will be conclusively presumed that you have knowledge
of information you were directly exposed to through actual receipt or review of memoranda or
documents containing such information, or through attendance at meetings at which such
information was discussed or disclosed.

(b) The provisions of Section 3(a) are not in lieu of, but are in addition to your
continuing obligation (which you acknowledge by accepting an award of Restricted Stock
Units) to not use or disclose Procter   Gamble s trade secrets or confidential information
known to you until any particular trade secret or confidential information becomes generally
known (through no fault of yours). As used in this Section 3(b),  generally known  means
known throughout the domestic United States industry or, if you have job responsibilities
partially or entirely outside of the United States, the appropriate domestic United States
and/or appropriate foreign country or countries  industry(ies). Information regarding
products in development, in test marketing, or being marketed or promoted in a discrete
geographic region, which information Procter   Gamble is considering for broader use, will
not be deemed to be  generally known  until such broader use is actually commercially
implemented. As used in this Section,  trade secrets or other confidential information 
also includes personnel knowledge about a manager, or managers, of Procter   Gamble or its
subsidiaries gained in the course of your employment with Procter   Gamble or its
subsidiaries (including personnel ratings or rankings, manager or peer evaluations,
performance records, special skills or abilities, compensation, work and development plans,
training, nature of specific project and work assignments, or specialties developed as a
result of such assignments) which directly or indirectly affords you a confidential basis to
solicit, encourage, or participate in soliciting any manager, or managers, of Procter  
Gamble or any subsidiary to terminate his or her relationship with Procter   Gamble or that
subsidiary.

(c) By accepting an award of Restricted Stock Units, you agree that, if you were, without
authority, to use or disclose Procter   Gamble s trade secrets or confidential information
or threaten to do so, Procter   Gamble would be entitled to injunctive and other appropriate
relief to prevent you from doing so. You further agree that the harm caused to Procter  
Gamble by the breach or anticipated breach of this Section 3(c) is,

Appendix 8

Form RTD 

by its nature,
irreparable because, among other things, it is not readily susceptible of
proof as to the monetary harm that would ensue. You agree that any interim or final
equitable relief entered by a court of competent jurisdiction will, at the request of
Procter   Gamble, be entered on consent and enforced by any court having jurisdiction over
you, without prejudice to any rights you or Procter   Gamble may have to appeal from the
proceedings which resulted in any grant of such relief.

(d) If any of the provisions contained in Sections 3(a) through (c) are for any reason,
whether by application of existing law or law which may develop after your acceptance of an
award of Restricted Stock Units, determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
overly broad as to scope of activity, duration, or territory, then by accepting an award of
Restricted Stock Units you agree to join Procter   Gamble in requesting such court to
construe such provision by limiting or reducing it so as to be enforceable to the extent
compatible with then-applicable law. If any one or more of the provisions contained in
Section 3(a) through (c) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid,
void or unenforceable, then the remainder of the provisions will remain in full force and
effect and will not be affected, impaired or invalidated in any way.

4. Dividend Equivalents. 

As a holder of Restricted Stock Units, during the period from the Grant Date until the
Original Settlement Date or the Agreed Settlement Date, whichever is later, each time a cash
dividend or other cash distribution is paid with respect to Common Stock, you will receive
additional Restricted Stock Units ( Dividend Equivalents ). The number of such additional
Restricted Stock Units will be determined as follows: multiply the number of Restricted Stock
Units currently held by the per share amount of the cash dividend or other cash distribution on the
Common Stock, and then divide the result by the price of the Common Stock on the date of the
dividend or distribution. These Dividend Equivalent Restricted Stock Units will be subject to the
same terms and conditions as the original Restricted Stock Units that gave rise to them, including
forfeiture and settlement terms, except that if there is a fractional number of Dividend Equivalent
Restricted Stock Units on the date they are to be settled, you will receive one share of Common
Stock for the fractional Dividend Equivalent Restricted Stock Units.

5. Voting and Other Shareholder Rights. 

A Restricted Stock Unit is not a share of Common Stock, and thus you are not entitled to any
voting, dividend or other rights as a shareholder of the Company with respect to the Restricted
Stock Units you hold.

6. Adjustments in Case of Stock Dividends, Stock Splits, Etc. 

In the event of a future reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend,
combination of shares, merger, consolidation, rights offering, share exchange, reclassification,
distribution, spin-off, or other change affecting the corporate structure, capitalization or Common
Stock, the number of Restricted Stock Units you hold will be adjusted appropriately and equitably
to prevent dilution or enlargement of your rights.

7. Tax Withholding. 

To the extent Procter   Gamble is required to withhold federal, state, local or foreign taxes
in connection with your Restricted Stock Units or Dividend Equivalents, the Committee may require
you to make such arrangements as Procter   Gamble may deem appropriate for the payment of such
taxes required to be withheld, including without limitation, relinquishment of some of the shares
of Common Stock that would otherwise be given to you. However,

Appendix 8

Form RTD 

regardless of any action taken by
Procter   Gamble with respect to any income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, or other tax, by
accepting a Restricted Stock Unit or Dividend Equivalent,
you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for any such tax owed by you is and remains your
responsibility, and that Procter   Gamble makes no representations about the tax treatment of your
Restricted Stock Units or Dividend Equivalents, and does not commit to structure any aspect of the
Restricted Stock Units or Dividend Equivalents to reduce or eliminate your tax liability.

8. Suspension Periods and Termination. 

The Company reserves the right from time to time to temporarily suspend your right to settle
your Restricted Stock Units for shares of Common Stock where such suspension is deemed by the
Company as necessary or appropriate.

9. Procter   Gamble Right to Terminate Employment and Other Remedies. 

(a) Nothing in these Terms and Conditions, or the fact that you have been awarded Restricted
Stock Units, affects in any way the right or power of Procter   Gamble to terminate your
employment at any time for any reason, with or without cause, or precludes Procter   Gamble
from taking any action or enforcing any remedy available to it with respect to any action or
conduct on your part. Without limiting the previous sentence, the Committee may, for
example, suspend or terminate any outstanding Restricted Stock Units for actions taken by
you if the Committee determines that you have acted significantly contrary to the best
interests of Procter   Gamble or its subsidiaries. For purposes of this paragraph, an
action taken  significantly contrary to the best interests of Procter   Gamble or its
subsidiaries  includes without limitation any action taken or threatened by you that the
Committee determines has, or is reasonably likely to have, a significant adverse impact on
the reputation, goodwill, stability, operation, personnel retention and management, or
business of Procter   Gamble or any subsidiary. This paragraph is in addition to any remedy
Procter   Gamble or a subsidiary may have at law or in equity, including without limitation
injunctive and other appropriate relief.

(b) By accepting a Restricted Stock Unit, you acknowledge that: (i) the Plan is established
voluntarily by The Procter   Gamble Company, is discretionary in nature, and may be amended,
suspended or terminated at any time; (ii) the award of Restricted Stock Units is voluntary
and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards
of Restricted Stock Units, or benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock Units, even if Restricted
Stock Units have been awarded repeatedly in the past; (iii) all decisions with respect to
future Restricted Stock Unit awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;
(iv) your participation in the Plan is voluntary; (v) Restricted Stock Units are an
extraordinary item and not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any
purpose, including without limitation calculating any termination, severance, resignation,
redundancy, or end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement
benefits or similar payments; (vi) in the event that your employer is not the Company, the
award of Restricted Stock Units will not be interpreted to form an employment relationship
with the Company; and, furthermore, the award of Restricted Stock Units will not be
interpreted to form an employment contract with any Procter   Gamble entity; (vii) the
future value of Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty; and (viii)
no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from termination or forfeiture of
Restricted Stock Units, or diminution in value of Restricted Stock Units or Common Stock
received in settlement thereof, and you irrevocably release Procter   Gamble from any such
claim that may arise.

Appendix 8

Form RTD 

10. Data Privacy. 

By accepting a Restricted Stock Unit, you explicitly and unambiguously consent to the
collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in
this document by and among, as applicable, any Procter   Gamble entity or third party for the
purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand
that Procter   Gamble holds certain personal information about you, including without limitation
your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other
identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in
a Procter   Gamble entity, details of all options, Restricted Stock Units, or any other entitlement
to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for
the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ( Data ). You understand that
Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and
management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, and that
the recipient s country may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country.
You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients
of Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to
receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes
of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite
transfer of such Data to any broker or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any
shares of Common Stock in connection with the settlement of your Restricted Stock Units. You
understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage
your participation in the plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request
additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments
to Data, or refuse or withdraw the consents contained in this paragraph, in any case without cost,
by contacting in writing your local human resources representative. You understand, however, that
refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. For more
information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand
that you may contact your local human resources representative.

11. Notices. 

(a) Any notice to Procter   Gamble that is required or appropriate with respect to
Restricted Stock Units held by you must be in writing and addressed to:

The Procter   Gamble Company 
ATTN: Corporate Secretary s Office 
P.O. Box 599 
Cincinnati, OH 45201

or such other address as Procter   Gamble may from time to time provide to you in writing.

(b) Any notice to you that is required or appropriate with respect to Restricted Stock Units
held or to be awarded to you will be provided to you in written or electronic form at any
physical or electronic mail address for you that is on file with Procter   Gamble.

12. Successors and Assigns. 

These Terms and Conditions are binding on, and inure to the benefit of, (a) The Procter  
Gamble Company and its successors and assigns; and (b) you and, if applicable, the representative
of your estate.

Appendix 8

Form RTD 

13. Governing Law. 

The validity, interpretation, performance and enforcement of these Terms and Conditions, the
Plan and your Restricted Stock Units will be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, U.S.A.
without giving effect to any other jurisdiction s conflicts of law principles. With respect to any
dispute concerning these Terms and Conditions, the Plan and your Restricted Stock Units, you
consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the federal or state courts located in Hamilton County,
Ohio, U.S.A.

14. The Plan. 

All Restricted Stock Units awarded to you have been awarded under the Plan. Certain
provisions of the Plan may have been repeated or emphasized in these Terms and Conditions; however,
all terms of the Plan apply to you and your Restricted Stock Units whether or not they have been
called out in these Terms and Conditions.

15. Effect of These Terms and Conditions. 

These Terms and Conditions and the terms of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by
reference, describe the contractual rights awarded to you in the form of Restricted Stock Units,
and the obligations imposed on you in connection with those rights. No right exists with respect
to Restricted Stock Units except as described in these Terms and Conditions and the Plan.

Appendix 9

Form RTD-A 

INSERT DATE 

INSERT NAME 

Subject: Award of Restricted Stock Units 

This is to advise you that The Procter   Gamble Company, an Ohio corporation, is awarding you with
Restricted Stock Units, on the dates and in the amounts listed below, pursuant to The Procter  
Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan, and subject to the attached Statement of Terms
and Conditions Form RTD-A.

Grant Date:

INSERT DATE OF GRANT  

Forfeiture Date:

INSERT DATE FORFEITURE ENDS  

Original Settlement Date:

INSERT DATE RSUs BECOME SHARES  

Number of Restricted Stock Units:

INSERT NUMBER GRANTED  

Paragraph 3(a) of Statement of Terms and Conditions Form RTD-A  is/is not  waived.

As you will see from the Statement of Terms and Conditions Form RTD-A, under certain circumstances
you may agree with The Procter   Gamble Company to delay the settlement of your Restricted Stock
Units beyond the Original Settlement Date. You may want to consult your personal tax advisor
before making a decision about this matter.

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY 

James J. Johnson, Secretary 

For the Compensation Committee 

I hereby accept the Award of Restricted Stock Units set forth above in accordance with and
subject to the terms of The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan and the
attached Statement of Terms and Conditions for Restricted Stock Units, with which I am
familiar. I agree that the Award of Restricted Stock Units, The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock
and Incentive Compensation Plan, and the attached Statement of Terms and Conditions for
Restricted Stock Units together constitute an agreement between the Company and me in
accordance with the terms thereof and hereof, and I further agree that any legal action related
to this Award of Restricted Stock Units may be brought in any federal or state court located in
Hamilton County, Ohio, USA, and I hereby accept the jurisdiction of these courts and consent to
service of process from said courts solely for legal actions related to this Award of
Restricted Stock Units. 

I hereby reject the Award of Restricted Stock Units set forth above. 

Date

Signature

P G E-mail Address 

Appendix 9

Form RTD-A 

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY 

STATEMENT OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS 

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE 2001 STOCK AND INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 

The Restricted Stock Units awarded to you as set forth in the letter you received from the
Company (your  Award Letter ), and your ownership thereof, are subject to the following terms and
conditions.

1. Definitions. 

For purposes of this Statement of Terms and Conditions for Restricted Stock Units ( Terms and
Conditions ), all capitalized terms not defined in these Terms and Conditions will have the
meanings described in The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ),
and the following terms will have the following meanings.

(a)   Agreed Settlement Date   has the meaning described in Section 2(c);

(b)   Data   has the meaning described in Section 10;

(c)   Disability   means termination of employment under the permanent disability provision of
any retirement plan of Procter   Gamble;

(d)   Dividend Equivalents   has the meaning described in Section 

(e)   Forfeiture Date   is the date identified as such in your Award Letter;

(f)   Forfeiture Period   means the period from the Grant Date until the Forfeiture Date.

(g)   Grant Date   means the date a Restricted Stock Unit was awarded to you, as identified in
your Award Letter;

(h)   Original Settlement Date   is the date identified as such in your Award Letter, as
adjusted, if applicable, by Section 

(i)   Post-Forfeiture Period   means the period from the Forfeiture Date until the later of
the Original Settlement Date or the Agreed Settlement Date;

(j)   Procter   Gamble   means the Company and/or its Subsidiaries;

(k)   Restricted Stock Unit   means an unfunded, unsecured promise by the Company, in
accordance with these Terms and Conditions and the provisions of the Plan, to issue to you
one share of Common Stock on the later of the Original Settlement Date or the Agreed
Settlement Date.

2. Transfer and Restrictions. 

(a) Neither Restricted Stock Units nor your interest in them may be sold, exchanged,
transferred, pledged, hypothecated, given or otherwise disposed of by you at any time,
except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Any attempted transfer of a
Restricted Stock Unit, whether voluntary or involuntary on your part, will result in the

Appendix 9

Form RTD-A 

immediate forfeiture to the Company, and cancellation, of the Restricted Stock Unit
(including all rights to Dividend Equivalents).

(b) During the Forfeiture Period, your Restricted Stock Units (including all rights to
receive Dividend Equivalents) will be forfeited and cancelled if you leave your employment
with Procter   Gamble for any reason, except due to: (i) your Disability, or (ii) in
certain circumstances, your Special Separation. In the event of your Disability during the
Forfeiture Period, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the Company, your Original
Settlement Date will automatically and immediately become, without any further action by you
or the Company, the date of your Disability. In the event of your Special Separation during
the Forfeiture Period, your Restricted Stock Units will be forfeited and cancelled unless
otherwise agreed to in writing by the Company.

(c) At any time at least one calendar year prior to the Original Settlement Date, you and
the Company may agree to postpone the date on which you are entitled to receive one share of
Common Stock for each Restricted Stock Unit you hold, according to the deferral terms in
place at the time, and provided the new date (the  Agreed Settlement Date ) is at least five
years from the Original Settlement Date. During the Post-Forfeiture Period, if you leave
your employment with Procter   Gamble for any reason other than: (i) Disability; (ii)
Special Separation; or (iii) retirement in accordance with the provisions of any appropriate
retirement plan of Procter   Gamble, your Original Settlement Date or Agreed Settlement
Date, as applicable, will automatically and immediately become, without any further action
by you or the Company, the date of your termination of employment. In the event of your
Disability or Special Separation during the Post-Forfeiture period, unless otherwise agreed
to in writing by the Company, your Original Settlement Date or Agreed Settlement Date, as
applicable, will automatically and immediately become, without any further action by you or
the Company, the date of your Disability or Special Separation, as applicable. In the event
of your retirement in accordance with the provisions of any appropriate retirement plan of
Procter   Gamble during the Post-Forfeiture Period, you will retain your Restricted Stock
Units subject to the Plan and these Terms and Conditions.

(d) Upon your death or the occurrence of a Change in Control at any time while you hold
Restricted Stock Units and/or Dividend Equivalents, your Original Settlement Date or Agreed
Settlement Date, as applicable, will automatically and immediately become, without any
further action by you or the Company, the date of your death or of the Change in Control, as
applicable.

(e) From time to time, the Company and/or the Committee may establish procedures with which
you must comply in order to accept an award of Restricted Stock Units, to agree to an Agreed
Settlement Date, or to settle your Restricted Stock Units, including requiring you to do so
by means of electronic signature, or charging you an administrative fee for doing so.

(f) Once your Restricted Stock Units have been settled by delivery to you of an equivalent
number of shares of Common Stock, the Restricted Stock Units will have no further value,
force or effect and you will cease to receive Dividend Equivalents associated with the
Restricted Stock Units.

Appendix 9

Form RTD-A 

3. Confidentiality and Non-Competition 

(a) In order to better protect the goodwill of Procter   Gamble and to prevent the
disclosure of Procter   Gamble s trade secrets and confidential information, and thereby
help ensure the long-term success of Procter   Gamble s business, in consideration of your
being awarded Restricted Stock Units, you (without prior written consent of Procter  
Gamble), will not engage in any activity or provide any services, whether as a director,
manager, supervisor, employee, advisor, consultant or otherwise, for a period of three (3)
years following the date your employment with Procter   Gamble is terminated in connection
with the manufacture, development, advertising, promotion, or sale of any product which is
the same as or similar to or competitive with any products of Procter   Gamble (including
both existing products as well as products known to you, as a consequence of your employment
with Procter   Gamble, to be in development):

(i) with respect to which your work has been directly concerned at any time during
the two (2) years preceding the termination of your employment with Procter  
Gamble; or

(ii) with respect to which, during the two (2) years preceding the termination of
your employment with Procter   Gamble, you, as a consequence of your job performance
and duties, acquired knowledge of trade secrets or other confidential information of
Procter   Gamble.

For purposes of this Section 3(a), it will be conclusively presumed that you have knowledge
of information you were directly exposed to through actual receipt or review of memoranda or
documents containing such information, or through attendance at meetings at which such
information was discussed or disclosed.

(b) The provisions of Section 3(a) are not in lieu of, but are in addition to your
continuing obligation (which you acknowledge by accepting an award of Restricted Stock
Units) to not use or disclose Procter   Gamble s trade secrets or confidential information
known to you until any particular trade secret or confidential information becomes generally
known (through no fault of yours). As used in this Section 3(b),  generally known  means
known throughout the domestic United States industry or, if you have job responsibilities
partially or entirely outside of the United States, the appropriate domestic United States
and/or appropriate foreign country or countries  industry(ies). Information regarding
products in development, in test marketing, or being marketed or promoted in a discrete
geographic region, which information Procter   Gamble is considering for broader use, will
not be deemed to be  generally known  until such broader use is actually commercially
implemented. As used in this Section,  trade secrets or other confidential information 
also includes personnel knowledge about a manager, or managers, of Procter   Gamble or its
subsidiaries gained in the course of your employment with Procter   Gamble or its
subsidiaries (including personnel ratings or rankings, manager or peer evaluations,
performance records, special skills or abilities, compensation, work and development plans,
training, nature of specific project and work assignments, or specialties developed as a
result of such assignments) which directly or indirectly affords you a confidential basis to
solicit, encourage, or participate in soliciting any manager, or managers, of Procter  
Gamble or any subsidiary to terminate his or her relationship with Procter   Gamble or that
subsidiary.

(c) By accepting an award of Restricted Stock Units, you agree that, if you were, without
authority, to use or disclose Procter   Gamble s trade secrets or confidential information
or threaten to do so, Procter   Gamble would be entitled to injunctive and other appropriate
relief to prevent you from doing so. You further agree that the harm caused to Procter  
Gamble by the breach or anticipated breach of this Section 3(c) is,

Appendix 9

Form RTD-A 

by its nature,
irreparable because, among other things, it is not readily susceptible of
proof as to the monetary harm that would ensue. You agree that any interim or final
equitable relief entered by a court of competent jurisdiction will, at the request of
Procter   Gamble, be entered on consent and enforced by any court having jurisdiction over
you, without prejudice to any rights you or Procter   Gamble may have to appeal from the
proceedings which resulted in any grant of such relief.

(d) If any of the provisions contained in Sections 3(a) through (c) are for any reason,
whether by application of existing law or law which may develop after your acceptance of an
award of Restricted Stock Units, determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
overly broad as to scope of activity, duration, or territory, then by accepting an award of
Restricted Stock Units you agree to join Procter   Gamble in requesting such court to
construe such provision by limiting or reducing it so as to be enforceable to the extent
compatible with then-applicable law. If any one or more of the provisions contained in
Section 3(a) through (c) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid,
void or unenforceable, then the remainder of the provisions will remain in full force and
effect and will not be affected, impaired or invalidated in any way.

4. Dividend Equivalents. 

As a holder of Restricted Stock Units, during the period from the Grant Date until the
Original Settlement Date or the Agreed Settlement Date, whichever is later, each time a cash
dividend or other cash distribution is paid with respect to Common Stock, you will receive
additional Restricted Stock Units ( Dividend Equivalents ). The number of such additional
Restricted Stock Units will be determined as follows: multiply the number of Restricted Stock
Units currently held by the per share amount of the cash dividend or other cash distribution on the
Common Stock, and then divide the result by the price of the Common Stock on the date of the
dividend or distribution. These Dividend Equivalent Restricted Stock Units will be subject to the
same terms and conditions as the original Restricted Stock Units that gave rise to them, including
forfeiture and settlement terms, except that if there is a fractional number of Dividend Equivalent
Restricted Stock Units on the date they are to be settled, you will receive one share of Common
Stock for the fractional Dividend Equivalent Restricted Stock Units.

5. Voting and Other Shareholder Rights. 

A Restricted Stock Unit is not a share of Common Stock, and thus you are not entitled to any
voting, dividend or other rights as a shareholder of the Company with respect to the Restricted
Stock Units you hold.

6. Adjustments in Case of Stock Dividends, Stock Splits, Etc. 

In the event of a future reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend,
combination of shares, merger, consolidation, rights offering, share exchange, reclassification,
distribution, spin-off, or other change affecting the corporate structure, capitalization or Common
Stock, the number of Restricted Stock Units you hold will be adjusted appropriately and equitably
to prevent dilution or enlargement of your rights.

7. Tax Withholding. 

To the extent Procter   Gamble is required to withhold federal, state, local or foreign taxes
in connection with your Restricted Stock Units or Dividend Equivalents, the Committee may require
you to make such arrangements as Procter   Gamble may deem appropriate for the payment of such
taxes required to be withheld, including without limitation, relinquishment of some of the shares
of Common Stock that would otherwise be given to you. However,

Appendix 9

Form RTD-A 

regardless of any action taken by
Procter   Gamble with respect to any income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, or other tax, by
accepting a Restricted Stock Unit or Dividend Equivalent,
you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for any such tax owed by you is and remains your
responsibility, and that Procter   Gamble makes no representations about the tax treatment of your
Restricted Stock Units or Dividend Equivalents, and does not commit to structure any aspect of the
Restricted Stock Units or Dividend Equivalents to reduce or eliminate your tax liability.

8. Suspension Periods and Termination. 

The Company reserves the right from time to time to temporarily suspend your right to settle
your Restricted Stock Units for shares of Common Stock where such suspension is deemed by the
Company as necessary or appropriate.

9. Procter   Gamble Right to Terminate Employment and Other Remedies. 

(a) Nothing in these Terms and Conditions, or the fact that you have been awarded Restricted
Stock Units, affects in any way the right or power of Procter   Gamble to terminate your
employment at any time for any reason, with or without cause, or precludes Procter   Gamble
from taking any action or enforcing any remedy available to it with respect to any action or
conduct on your part. Without limiting the previous sentence, the Committee may, for
example, suspend or terminate any outstanding Restricted Stock Units for actions taken by
you if the Committee determines that you have acted significantly contrary to the best
interests of Procter   Gamble or its subsidiaries. For purposes of this paragraph, an
action taken  significantly contrary to the best interests of Procter   Gamble or its
subsidiaries  includes without limitation any action taken or threatened by you that the
Committee determines has, or is reasonably likely to have, a significant adverse impact on
the reputation, goodwill, stability, operation, personnel retention and management, or
business of Procter   Gamble or any subsidiary. This paragraph is in addition to any remedy
Procter   Gamble or a subsidiary may have at law or in equity, including without limitation
injunctive and other appropriate relief.

(b) By accepting a Restricted Stock Unit, you acknowledge that: (i) the Plan is established
voluntarily by The Procter   Gamble Company, is discretionary in nature, and may be amended,
suspended or terminated at any time; (ii) the award of Restricted Stock Units is voluntary
and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards
of Restricted Stock Units, or benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock Units, even if Restricted
Stock Units have been awarded repeatedly in the past; (iii) all decisions with respect to
future Restricted Stock Unit awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;
(iv) your participation in the Plan is voluntary; (v) Restricted Stock Units are an
extraordinary item and not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any
purpose, including without limitation calculating any termination, severance, resignation,
redundancy, or end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement
benefits or similar payments; (vi) in the event that your employer is not the Company, the
award of Restricted Stock Units will not be interpreted to form an employment relationship
with the Company; and, furthermore, the award of Restricted Stock Units will not be
interpreted to form an employment contract with any Procter   Gamble entity; (vii) the
future value of Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty; and (viii)
no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from termination or forfeiture of
Restricted Stock Units, or diminution in value of Restricted Stock Units or Common Stock
received in settlement thereof, and you irrevocably release Procter   Gamble from any such
claim that may arise.

Appendix 9

Form RTD-A 

10. Data Privacy. 

By accepting a Restricted Stock Unit, you explicitly and unambiguously consent to the
collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in
this document by and among, as applicable, any Procter   Gamble entity or third party for the
purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand
that Procter   Gamble holds certain personal information about you, including without limitation
your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other
identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in
a Procter   Gamble entity, details of all options, Restricted Stock Units, or any other entitlement
to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for
the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ( Data ). You understand that
Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and
management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, and that
the recipient s country may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country.
You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients
of Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to
receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes
of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite
transfer of such Data to any broker or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any
shares of Common Stock in connection with the settlement of your Restricted Stock Units. You
understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage
your participation in the plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request
additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments
to Data, or refuse or withdraw the consents contained in this paragraph, in any case without cost,
by contacting in writing your local human resources representative. You understand, however, that
refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. For more
information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand
that you may contact your local human resources representative.

11. Notices. 

(a) Any notice to Procter   Gamble that is required or appropriate with respect to
Restricted Stock Units held by you must be in writing and addressed to:

The Procter   Gamble Company 
ATTN: Corporate Secretary s Office 
P.O. Box 599 
Cincinnati, OH 45201

or such other address as Procter   Gamble may from time to time provide to you in writing.

(b) Any notice to you that is required or appropriate with respect to Restricted Stock Units
held or to be awarded to you will be provided to you in written or electronic form at any
physical or electronic mail address for you that is on file with Procter   Gamble.

12. Successors and Assigns. 

These Terms and Conditions are binding on, and inure to the benefit of, (a) The Procter  
Gamble Company and its successors and assigns; and (b) you and, if applicable, the representative
of your estate.

Appendix 9

Form RTD-A 

13. Governing Law. 

The validity, interpretation, performance and enforcement of these Terms and Conditions, the
Plan and your Restricted Stock Units will be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, U.S.A.
without giving effect to any other jurisdiction s conflicts of law principles. With respect to any
dispute concerning these Terms and Conditions, the Plan and your Restricted Stock Units, you
consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the federal or state courts located in Hamilton County,
Ohio, U.S.A.

14. The Plan. 

      All Restricted Stock Units awarded to you have been awarded under the Plan. Certain
provisions of the Plan may have been repeated or emphasized in these Terms and Conditions; however,
all terms of the Plan apply to you and your Restricted Stock Units whether or not they have been
called out in these Terms and Conditions.

15. Effect of These Terms and Conditions. 

These Terms and Conditions and the terms of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by
reference, describe the contractual rights awarded to you in the form of Restricted Stock Units,
and the obligations imposed on you in connection with those rights. No right exists with respect
to Restricted Stock Units except as described in these Terms and Conditions and the Plan.

INSERT DATE 

INSERT NAME 

Subject:
Award of Restricted Stock Units 

This is to advise you that The Procter   Gamble Company, an Ohio corporation, is awarding you with
Restricted Stock Units, on the dates and in the amounts listed below, pursuant to The Procter  
Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan, and subject to the attached Statement of Terms
and Conditions Form RTN2.

Grant Date:

INSERT DATE OF GRANT  

Forfeiture Date:

INSERT DATE FORFEITURE ENDS  

Original Settlement Date:

INSERT DATE RSUs BECOME SHARES  

Number of Restricted Stock Units:

INSERT NUMBER GRANTED  

Paragraph 3(a) of Statement of Terms and Conditions Form RTN2  is/is not  waived.

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY 

James J. Johnson, Secretary 

For the Compensation Committee 

I hereby accept the Award of Restricted Stock Units set forth above in accordance with and
subject to the terms of The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan and the
attached Statement of Terms and Conditions for Restricted Stock Units, with which I am
familiar. I agree that the Award of Restricted Stock Units, The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock
and Incentive Compensation Plan, and the attached Statement of Terms and Conditions for
Restricted Stock Units together constitute an agreement between the Company and me in
accordance with the terms thereof and hereof, and I further agree that any legal action related
to this Award of Restricted Stock Units may be brought in any federal or state court located in
Hamilton County, Ohio, USA, and I hereby accept the jurisdiction of these courts and consent to
service of process from said courts solely for legal actions related to this Award of
Restricted Stock Units. 

I hereby reject the Award of Restricted Stock Units set forth above. 

Date

Signature

P G E-mail Address 

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY 

STATEMENT OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS 

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE 2001 STOCK AND INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 

The Restricted Stock Units awarded to you as set forth in the letter you received from the
Company (your  Award Letter ), and your ownership thereof, are subject to the following terms and
conditions.

1. Definitions. 

For purposes of this Statement of Terms and Conditions for Restricted Stock Units ( Terms and
Conditions ), all capitalized terms not defined in these Terms and Conditions will have the
meanings described in The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ),
and the following terms will have the following meanings.

(a)   Data   has the meaning described in Section 

(b)   Disability   means termination of employment under the permanent disability provision of
any retirement plan of Procter   Gamble;

(c)   Forfeiture Date   is the date identified as such in your Award Letter;

(d)   Forfeiture Period   means the period from the Grant Date until the Forfeiture Date.

(e)   Grant Date   means the date a Restricted Stock Unit was awarded to you, as identified in
your Award Letter;

(f)   Original Settlement Date   is the date identified as such in your Award Letter, as
adjusted, if applicable, by Section 

(g)   Post-Forfeiture Period   means the period from the Forfeiture Date until the Original
Settlement Date;

(h)   Procter   Gamble   means the Company and/or its Subsidiaries;

(i)   Restricted Stock Unit   means an unfunded, unsecured promise by the Company, in
accordance with these Terms and Conditions and the provisions of the Plan, to issue to you
one share of Common Stock on the Original Settlement Date.

2. Transfer and Restrictions. 

(a) Neither Restricted Stock Units nor your interest in them may be sold, exchanged,
transferred, pledged, hypothecated, given or otherwise disposed of by you at any time,
except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Any attempted transfer of a
Restricted Stock Unit, whether voluntary or involuntary on your part, will result in the
immediate forfeiture to the Company, and cancellation, of the Restricted Stock Unit.

(b) During the Forfeiture Period, your Restricted Stock Units will be forfeited and
cancelled if you leave your employment with Procter   Gamble for any reason, except due to:
(i) your Disability; or (ii) in certain circumstances, your Special Separation. In

the event of your Disability during the Forfeiture Period, unless otherwise agreed to in
writing by the Company, your Original Settlement Date will automatically and immediately
become, without any further action by you or the Company, the date of your Disability. In
the event of your Special Separation during the Forfeiture Period, your Restricted Stock
Units will be forfeited and cancelled unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the Company.

(c) During the Post-Forfeiture Period, if you leave your employment with Procter   Gamble
for any reason other than: (i) Disability; (ii) Special Separation; or (iii) retirement in
accordance with the provisions of any appropriate retirement plan of Procter   Gamble, your
Original Settlement Date will automatically and immediately become, without any further
action by you or the Company, the date of your termination of employment. In the event of
your Disability or Special Separation during the Post-Forfeiture Period, unless otherwise
agreed to in writing by the Company, your Original Settlement Date will automatically and
immediately become, without any further action by you or the Company, the date of your
Disability or Special Separation, as applicable. In the event of your retirement in
accordance with the provisions of any appropriate retirement plan of Procter   Gamble during
the Post-Forfeiture Period, you will retain your Restricted Stock Units subject to the Plan
and these Terms and Conditions.

(d) Upon your death or the occurrence of a Change in Control at any time while you hold
Restricted Stock Units, your Original Settlement Date will automatically and immediately
become, without any further action by you or the Company, the date of your death or of the
Change in Control, as applicable.

(e) From time to time, the Company and/or the Committee may establish procedures with which
you must comply in order to accept an award of Restricted Stock Units, or to settle your
Restricted Stock Units, including requiring you to do so by means of electronic signature,
or charging you an administrative fee for doing so.

(f) Once your Restricted Stock Units have been settled by delivery to you of an equivalent
number of shares of Common Stock, the Restricted Stock Units will have no further value,
force or effect.

3. Confidentiality and Non-Competition 

(a) In order to better protect the goodwill of Procter   Gamble and to prevent the
disclosure of Procter   Gamble s trade secrets and confidential information, and thereby
help ensure the long-term success of Procter   Gamble s business, in consideration of your
being awarded Restricted Stock Units, you (without prior written consent of Procter  
Gamble), will not engage in any activity or provide any services, whether as a director,
manager, supervisor, employee, advisor, consultant or otherwise, for a period of three (3)
years following the date your employment with Procter   Gamble is terminated in connection
with the manufacture, development, advertising, promotion, or sale of any product which is
the same as or similar to or competitive with any products of Procter   Gamble (including
both existing products as well as products known to you, as a consequence of your employment
with Procter   Gamble, to be in development):

(i) with respect to which your work has been directly concerned at any time during
the two (2) years preceding the termination of your employment with Procter  
Gamble; or

(ii) with respect to which, during the two (2) years preceding the termination of
your employment with Procter   Gamble, you, as a consequence of your job

performance and duties, acquired knowledge of trade secrets or other confidential
information of Procter   Gamble.

For purposes of this Section 3(a), it will be conclusively presumed that you have knowledge
of information you were directly exposed to through actual receipt or review of memoranda or
documents containing such information, or through attendance at meetings at which such
information was discussed or disclosed.

(b) The provisions of Section 3(a) are not in lieu of, but are in addition to your
continuing obligation (which you acknowledge by accepting an award of Restricted Stock
Units) to not use or disclose Procter   Gamble s trade secrets or confidential information
known to you until any particular trade secret or confidential information becomes generally
known (through no fault of yours). As used in this Section 3(b),  generally known  means
known throughout the domestic United States industry or, if you have job responsibilities
partially or entirely outside of the United States, the appropriate domestic United States
and/or appropriate foreign country or countries  industry(ies). Information regarding
products in development, in test marketing, or being marketed or promoted in a discrete
geographic region, which information Procter   Gamble is considering for broader use, will
not be deemed to be  generally known  until such broader use is actually commercially
implemented. As used in this Section,  trade secrets or other confidential information 
also includes personnel knowledge about a manager, or managers, of Procter   Gamble or its
subsidiaries gained in the course of your employment with Procter   Gamble or its
subsidiaries (including personnel ratings or rankings, manager or peer evaluations,
performance records, special skills or abilities, compensation, work and development plans,
training, nature of specific project and work assignments, or specialties developed as a
result of such assignments) which directly or indirectly affords you a confidential basis to
solicit, encourage, or participate in soliciting any manager, or managers, of Procter  
Gamble or any subsidiary to terminate his or her relationship with Procter   Gamble or that
subsidiary.

(c) By accepting an award of Restricted Stock Units, you agree that, if you were, without
authority, to use or disclose Procter   Gamble s trade secrets or confidential information
or threaten to do so, Procter   Gamble would be entitled to injunctive and other appropriate
relief to prevent you from doing so. You further agree that the harm caused to Procter  
Gamble by the breach or anticipated breach of this Section 3(c) is, by its nature,
irreparable because, among other things, it is not readily susceptible of proof as to the
monetary harm that would ensue. You agree that any interim or final equitable relief
entered by a court of competent jurisdiction will, at the request of Procter   Gamble, be
entered on consent and enforced by any court having jurisdiction over you, without prejudice
to any rights you or Procter   Gamble may have to appeal from the proceedings which resulted
in any grant of such relief.

(d) If any of the provisions contained in Sections 3(a) through (c) are for any reason,
whether by application of existing law or law which may develop after your acceptance of an
award of Restricted Stock Units, determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
overly broad as to scope of activity, duration, or territory, then by accepting an award of
Restricted Stock Units you agree to join Procter   Gamble in requesting such court to
construe such provision by limiting or reducing it so as to be enforceable to the extent
compatible with then-applicable law. If any one or more of the provisions contained in
Section 3(a) through (c) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid,
void or unenforceable, then the remainder of the provisions will remain in full force and
effect and will not be affected, impaired or invalidated in any way.

4. Voting and Other Shareholder Rights. 

A Restricted Stock Unit is not a share of Common Stock, and thus you are not entitled to any
voting, dividend or other rights as a shareholder of the Company with respect to the Restricted
Stock Units you hold.

5. Adjustments in Case of Stock Splits, Etc. 

In the event of a future reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, combination of shares,
merger, consolidation, rights offering, share exchange, reclassification, distribution, spin-off,
or other change affecting the corporate structure, capitalization or Common Stock, the number of
Restricted Stock Units you hold will be adjusted appropriately and equitably to prevent dilution or
enlargement of your rights.

6. Tax Withholding. 

To the extent Procter   Gamble is required to withhold federal, state, local or foreign taxes
in connection with your Restricted Stock Units, the Committee may require you to make such
arrangements as Procter   Gamble may deem appropriate for the payment of such taxes required to be
withheld, including without limitation, relinquishment of some of the shares of Common Stock that
would otherwise be given to you. However, regardless of any action taken by Procter   Gamble with
respect to any income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, or other tax, by accepting a Restricted
Stock Unit, you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for any such tax owed by you is and remains
your responsibility, and that Procter   Gamble makes no representations about the tax treatment of
your Restricted Stock Units, and does not commit to structure any aspect of the Restricted Stock
Units to reduce or eliminate your tax liability.

7. Suspension Periods and Termination. 

The Company reserves the right from time to time to temporarily suspend your right to settle
your Restricted Stock Units for shares of Common Stock where such suspension is deemed by the
Company as necessary or appropriate.

8. Procter   Gamble Right to Terminate Employment and Other Remedies. 

(a) Nothing in these Terms and Conditions, or the fact that you have been awarded Restricted
Stock Units, affects in any way the right or power of Procter   Gamble to terminate your
employment at any time for any reason, with or without cause, or precludes Procter   Gamble
from taking any action or enforcing any remedy available to it with respect to any action or
conduct on your part. Without limiting the previous sentence, the Committee may, for
example, suspend or terminate any outstanding Restricted Stock Units for actions taken by
you if the Committee determines that you have acted significantly contrary to the best
interests of Procter   Gamble or its subsidiaries. For purposes of this paragraph, an
action taken  significantly contrary to the best interests of Procter   Gamble or its
subsidiaries  includes without limitation any action taken or threatened by you that the
Committee determines has, or is reasonably likely to have, a significant adverse impact on
the reputation, goodwill, stability, operation, personnel retention and management, or
business of Procter   Gamble or any subsidiary. This paragraph is in addition to any remedy
Procter   Gamble or a subsidiary may have at law or in equity, including without limitation
injunctive and other appropriate relief.

(b) By accepting a Restricted Stock Unit, you acknowledge that: (i) the Plan is established
voluntarily by The Procter   Gamble Company, is discretionary in nature,

and may be amended, suspended or terminated at any time; (ii) the award of Restricted Stock
Units is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to
receive future awards of Restricted Stock Units, or benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock
Units, even if Restricted Stock Units have been awarded repeatedly in the past; (iii) all
decisions with respect to future Restricted Stock Unit awards, if any, will be at the sole
discretion of the Company; (iv) your participation in the Plan is voluntary; (v) Restricted
Stock Units are an extraordinary item and not part of normal or expected compensation or
salary for any purpose, including without limitation calculating any termination, severance,
resignation, redundancy, or end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension
or retirement benefits or similar payments; (vi) in the event that your employer is not the
Company, the award of Restricted Stock Units will not be interpreted to form an employment
relationship with the Company; and, furthermore, the award of Restricted Stock Units will
not be interpreted to form an employment contract with any Procter   Gamble entity; (vii)
the future value of Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty; and
(viii) no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from termination or
forfeiture of Restricted Stock Units, or diminution in value of Restricted Stock Units or
Common Stock received in settlement thereof, and you irrevocably release Procter   Gamble
from any such claim that may arise.

9. Data Privacy. 

By accepting a Restricted Stock Unit, you explicitly and unambiguously consent to the
collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in
this document by and among, as applicable, any Procter   Gamble entity or third party for the
purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand
that Procter   Gamble holds certain personal information about you, including without limitation
your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other
identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in
a Procter   Gamble entity, details of all options, Restricted Stock Units, or any other entitlement
to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for
the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ( Data ). You understand that
Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and
management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, and that
the recipient s country may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country.
You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients
of Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to
receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes
of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite
transfer of such Data to any broker or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any
shares of Common Stock in connection with the settlement of your Restricted Stock Units. You
understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage
your participation in the plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request
additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments
to Data, or refuse or withdraw the consents contained in this paragraph, in any case without cost,
by contacting in writing your local human resources representative. You understand, however, that
refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. For more
information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand
that you may contact your local human resources representative.

10. Notices. 

(a) Any notice to Procter   Gamble that is required or appropriate with respect to
Restricted Stock Units held by you must be in writing and addressed to:

The Procter   Gamble Company 
ATTN: Corporate Secretary s Office 
P.O. Box 599 
Cincinnati, OH 45201

or such other address as Procter   Gamble may from time to time provide to you in writing.

(b) Any notice to you that is required or appropriate with respect to Restricted Stock Units
held or to be awarded to you will be provided to you in written or electronic form at any
physical or electronic mail address for you that is on file with Procter   Gamble.

11. Successors and Assigns. 

These Terms and Conditions are binding on, and inure to the benefit of, (a) the Company and
its successors and assigns; and (b) you and, if applicable, the representative of your estate.

12. Governing Law. 

The validity, interpretation, performance and enforcement of these Terms and Conditions, the
Plan and your Restricted Stock Units will be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, U.S.A.
without giving effect to any other jurisdiction s conflicts of law principles. With respect to any
dispute concerning these Terms and Conditions, the Plan and your Restricted Stock Units, you
consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the federal or state courts located in Hamilton County,
Ohio, U.S.A.

13. The Plan. 

All Restricted Stock Units awarded to you have been awarded under the Plan. Certain
provisions of the Plan may have been repeated or emphasized in these Terms and Conditions; however,
all terms of the Plan apply to you and your Restricted Stock Units whether or not they have been
called out in these Terms and Conditions.

14. Effect of These Terms and Conditions. 

These Terms and Conditions and the terms of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by
reference, describe the contractual rights awarded to you in the form of Restricted Stock Units,
and the obligations imposed on you in connection with those rights. No right exists with respect
to Restricted Stock Units except as described in these Terms and Conditions and the Plan.

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.2>
 3
 l32996aexv10w2.htm
 EX-10.2

EX-10.2 

EXHIBIT (10-2)

The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan

The Procter   Gamble Company 

Executive Offices 

1 Procter   Gamble Plaza, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202-3315 

December 11, 2001

To: 
       
     Participants in The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan 

This document provides a copy of The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan followed by important
Additional Information. Please save this with your stock option materials.

Very truly yours, 
  
Terry L. Overbey 
Secretary             

This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities that have been registered under
the Securities Act of 1933. 

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE 1992 STOCK PLAN  
(as amended December 11, 2001)

ARTICLE A   Purpose. 

The purpose of The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan (hereinafter referred to as the  Plan) is
to encourage those employees of The Procter   Gamble Company (hereinafter referred to as the
 Company ) and its subsidiaries who are largely responsible for the long-term success and
development of the business to strengthen the alignment of interests between employees and the
Company s shareholders through the increased ownership of shares of the Company s Common Stock, and
to encourage those employees to remain in the employ of the Company and its subsidiaries. This will
be accomplished through the granting to employees of options to purchase shares of the Common Stock
of the Company, payment of a portion of the employees  remuneration in shares of the Common Stock,
and the granting to them by the Company and a subsidiary, if appropriate, of deferred awards
related to the increase in the price of the Common Stock of the Company as provided by the terms
and conditions set forth in the Plan.

ARTICLE B   Administration. 

1. The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee (hereinafter referred to as
the
 Committee ) of the Board of Directors of the Company (hereinafter referred to as the
 Board ), or such other
committee as may be designated by the Board. The Committee shall consist of not less than
three (3) members
of the Board who are neither officers nor employees, or members of the Board who are
 Non-Employee
Directors  as defined in Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
(hereinafter
referred to as the  1934 Act ), or any successor rule or definition adopted by the Securities
and Exchange
Commission, to be appointed by the Board from time to time and to serve at the discretion of
the Board.

2. It shall be the duty of the Committee to administer this Plan in accordance with its
provisions, to
report thereon not less than once each year to the Board and to make such recommendations of
amendments or
otherwise as it deems necessary or appropriate. A decision by a majority of the Committee
shall govern all
actions of the Committee.

3. Subject to the express provisions of this Plan, the Committee shall have authority: to
grant
nonstatutory and incentive stock options; to grant to recipients stock appreciation rights
either freestanding, in
tandem with simultaneously granted stock options, or in parallel with simultaneously granted
stock options; to
award a portion of a recipient s remuneration in shares of Common Stock of the Company subject
to such
conditions or restrictions, if any, as the Committee may determine; to determine all the terms
and provisions of
the respective stock option, stock appreciation right, and stock award agreements including
setting the dates
when each stock option or stock appreciation right or part thereof may be exercised and
determining the
conditions and restrictions, if any, of any shares of Common Stock acquired through the
exercise of any stock
option; and to make all other determinations it deems necessary or advisable for administering
this Plan;
provided, however, the Committee shall have the further authority at time of grant to:

(a) 
       
     waive the provisions of Article F, paragraph 1(a); 

(b) 
       
     waive the provisions of Article F, paragraph 1(b); 

(c) 
       
     waive the provisions of Article G, paragraph 4(a); and 

(d) 
       
     impose conditions in lieu of those set forth in Article G, paragraphs 4 through 7,
for nonstatutory
stock options, stock appreciation rights, and stock award grants which do not increase or
extend the
rights of the recipient, 

to take into consideration the differences, limitations, and requirements of foreign laws or
conditions including tax regulations, exchange controls or investment restrictions, possible
unenforceability of any part of this Plan, or other matters deemed appropriate by it.

4. The Committee may establish from time to time such regulations, provisions, and procedures
within
the terms of this Plan as, in its opinion, may be advisable in the administration of this
Plan.

5. The Committee may designate the Secretary of the Company or other employees of the Company
to
assist the Committee in the administration of this Plan and may grant authority to such
persons to execute
documents on behalf of the Committee.

ARTICLE C   Participation. 

The Committee shall select those employees of the Company and its subsidiaries who, in the
opinion of the Committee, have demonstrated a capacity for contributing in a substantial manner to
the success of such companies and shall determine the number of shares of the Common Stock of the
Company to be transferred under this Plan subject to such conditions or restrictions as the
Committee may determine and the number of shares with respect to which stock options or stock
appreciation rights will be granted. The Committee may consult with the Chief Executive, but
nevertheless the Committee has the full authority to act, and the Committee s actions shall be
final.

ARTICLE D   Limitation on Number of Shares for the Plan. 

1. Unless otherwise authorized by the shareholders, the maximum aggregate number of shares
available for award under this Plan for each calendar year the Plan is in effect shall be one
percent (1%) of the
total issued shares of Common Stock of the Company as of June 30 of the immediately preceding
fiscal year.

2. Any of the authorized shares may be used in respect of any of the types of awards described
in this
Plan, except that no more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the authorized shares in any
calendar year may be
issued as restricted or unrestricted stock and no more than 50,000,000 of the authorized
shares during the term
of the Plan may be issued as incentive stock options.

3. Any authorized shares not used in a calendar year shall be available for awards under this
Plan in
succeeding calendar years.

ARTICLE E   Shares Subject to Use Under the Plan. 

1. The shares to be delivered by the Company upon exercise of stock options or stock
appreciation
rights shall be either authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares, as determined by the
Board. In the case
of redemption of stock appreciation rights by one of the Company s subsidiaries, such shares
shall be shares
acquired by that subsidiary.

2. For purposes of this Plan, restricted or unrestricted stock awarded under the terms of this
Plan shall
be authorized but unissued shares, treasury shares, or shares acquired for purposes of the
Plan by the Company
or a subsidiary, as determined by the Board.

ARTICLE F   Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights. 

1. In addition to such other conditions as may be established by the Committee, in
consideration of the granting of stock options or stock appreciation rights under the terms of this
Plan, the recipient agrees as follows:

(a) 
       
     The right to exercise any stock option or stock appreciation right shall be
conditional upon
certification by the recipient at time of exercise that the recipient intends to remain
in the employ of
the Company or one of its subsidiaries (except in cases of retirement, disability or
Special
Separation as defined in section 6 of Article G) for at least one (1) year following the
date of the
exercise of the stock option or stock appreciation right, and, 

(b) 
       
     In order to better protect the goodwill of the Company and its subsidiaries and to
prevent the
disclosure of the Company s or it subsidiaries  trade secrets and confidential
information and
thereby help insure the long-term success of the business, the recipient, without prior
written
consent of the Company, will not engage in any activity or provide any services, whether
as a
director, manager, supervisor, employee, adviser, consultant or otherwise, for a period
of three (3)
years following the date of the recipient s termination of employment with the Company
(except for
terminations of employment resulting from retirement or Special Separation), in
connection with
the manufacture, development, advertising, promotion, or sale of any product which is the
same as
or similar to or competitive with any products of the Company or its subsidiaries
(including both
existing products as well as products known to the recipient, as a consequence of the
recipient s
employment with the Company or one of its subsidiaries, to be in development): 

(1) 
       
     with respect to which the recipient s work has been directly concerned at
any time during the
two (2) years preceding termination of employment with the Company or one of its
subsidiaries or 

(2) 
       
     with respect to which during that period of time the recipient, as a
consequence of the
recipient s job performance and duties, acquired knowledge of trade secrets or other
confidential information of the Company or its subsidiaries. 

For purposes of this section, it shall be conclusively presumed that recipients have
knowledge of information they were directly exposed to through actual receipt or review
of memos or documents containing such information, or through actual attendance at
meetings at which such information was discussed or disclosed. 

(c) 
       
     The provisions of this Article are not in lieu of, but are in addition to the
continuing obligation of
the recipient (which recipient hereby acknowledges) to not use or disclose the Company s
or its
subsidiaries  trade secrets and confidential information known to the recipient until any
particular
trade secret or confidential information become generally known (through no fault of the
recipient),
whereupon the restriction on use and disclosure shall cease as to that item. Information
regarding
products in development, in test marketing or being marketed or promoted in a discrete
geographic
region, which information the Company or one of its subsidiaries is considering for
broader use,
shall not be deemed generally known until such broader use is actually commercially
implemented.
As used in this Article,  generally known  means known throughout the domestic U. S.
industry or,
in the case of recipients who have job responsibilities outside of the United States, the
appropriate
foreign country or countries  industry. 

(d) 
       
     By acceptance of any offered stock option or stock appreciation rights granted
under the terms of
this Plan, the recipient acknowledges that if the recipient were, without authority, to
use or disclose
the Company s or any of its subsidiaries  trade secrets or confidential information or
threaten to do
so, the Company or one of its subsidiaries would be entitled to injunctive and other
appropriate 

relief to prevent the recipient from doing so. The recipient acknowledges that the harm
caused to the Company by the breach or anticipated breach of this Article is by its
nature irreparable because, among other things, it is not readily susceptible of proof
as to the monetary harm that would ensue. The recipient consents that any interim or
final equitable relief entered by a court of competent jurisdiction shall, at the
request of the Company or one of its subsidiaries, be entered on consent and enforced by
any court having jurisdiction over the recipient, without prejudice to any rights either
party may have to appeal from the proceedings which resulted in any grant of such
relief. 

(e) 
       
     If any of the provisions contained in this Article shall for any reason, whether
by application of existing law or law which may develop after the recipient s
acceptance of an offer of the granting of stock appreciation rights or stock options,
be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be overly broad as to scope of
activity, duration, or territory, the recipient agrees to join the Company or any of
its subsidiaries in requesting such court to construe such provision by limiting or
reducing it so as to be enforceable to the extent compatible with then applicable law.
If any one or more of the terms, provisions, covenants, or restrictions of this Article
shall be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or
unenforceable, then the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants, and restrictions
of this Article shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected,
impaired, or invalidated. 

2. The fact that an employee has been granted a stock option or a stock appreciation right
under this
Plan shall not limit the right of the employer to terminate the recipient s employment at any
time. The
Committee is authorized to suspend or terminate any outstanding stock option or stock
appreciation right for
actions taken prior to termination of employment if the Committee determines the recipient has
acted
significantly contrary to the best interests of the Company.

3. More than one stock option or stock appreciation right may be granted to any employee under
this
Plan but the maximum number of shares with respect to which stock options or stock
appreciation rights may be
granted to any employee in any calendar year shall not exceed five percent (5%) of the number
of shares which
can be issued or transferred annually hereunder.

4. The aggregate fair market value (determined at the time when the incentive stock option is
exercisable for the first time by an employee during any calendar year) of the shares for
which any employee
may be granted incentive stock options under this Plan and all other stock option plans of the
Company and its
subsidiaries in any calendar year shall not exceed $100,000 (or such other amount as reflected
in the limits
imposed by Section 422(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as it may be amended from time
to time).

5. If the Committee grants incentive stock options, all such stock options shall contain such
provisions
as permit them to qualify as  incentive stock options  within the meaning of Section 422 of
the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as may be amended from time to time.

6. With respect to stock options granted in tandem with or parallel to stock appreciation
rights, the
exercise of either such stock options or such stock appreciation rights will result in the
simultaneous
cancellation of the same number of tandem or parallel stock appreciation rights or stock
options, as the case
may be.

7. The exercise price for all stock options and stock appreciation rights shall be established
by the
Committee at the time of their grant and shall be not less than one hundred percent (100%) of
the fair market
value of the Common Stock of the Company on the date of grant.

ARTICLE G   Exercise of Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights. 

1. All
stock options and stock appreciation rights granted hereunder shall have a maximum life
of no
more than fifteen (15) years from the date of grant; provided, however, that any stock options
or stock
appreciation rights with a life of more than ten (10) years from the date of grant that have
been conditionally
granted to the Chief Executive or to any other executive officer subject to the provisions of
Section 162(m) of
the Internal Revenue Code and subject to taxation under United States law, as it may be
amended from time to
time, prior to the annual meeting of shareholders scheduled for October 12, 1999 shall
automatically be
canceled effective October 12, 1999 if the shareholders do not adopt a resolution at such
annual meeting approving grants to such officers with a maximum life of up to fifteen (15) years from the
date of grant.

2. No stock options or stock appreciation rights shall be exercisable within one (1) year from
their
date of grant, except in the case of the death of the recipient.

3. During the lifetime of the recipient, stock options and stock appreciation rights may be
exercised
only by the recipient personally, or, in the event of the legal incompetence of the recipient,
by the recipient s
duly appointed legal guardian.

4. In case a recipient of stock options or stock appreciation rights ceases to be an employee
of the
Company or any of its subsidiaries while holding an unexercised stock option or stock
appreciation right:

(a) 
       
     Any unexercisable portions thereof are then void, except in the case of: (1) death
of the recipient;
(2) any Special Separation (as defined in section 6 of this Article G) that occurs more
than six
months from the date the options were granted; or (3) any option as to which the
Committee has
waived, at the time of grant, the provisions of this Article G, paragraph 4(a) pursuant
to the
authority granted by Article B, paragraph 3. 

(b) 
       
     Any exercisable portions thereof are then void, except in the case of death,
retirement in
accordance with the provisions of any appropriate profit sharing or retirement plan of
the Company
or any of its subsidiaries, or Special Separation (as defined in section 6 of this
Article G) of the
recipient. 

5. In the case of the death of a recipient of stock options or stock appreciation rights while
an
employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, the persons to whom the stock options or
stock
appreciation rights have been transferred by will or the laws of descent and distribution
shall have the privilege
of exercising remaining stock options, stock appreciation rights or parts thereof, whether or
not exercisable on
the date of death of such employee, at any time prior to the expiration date of the stock
options or stock
appreciation rights.

6. Termination of employment under the permanent disability provision of any appropriate
profit
sharing or retirement plan of the Company or any of its subsidiaries shall be deemed the same
as retirement.
Special Separation means any termination of employment, except a termination for cause or a
voluntary
resignation that is not initiated or encouraged by the Company, that occurs prior to the time
a recipient is
eligible to retire. The death of a recipient of stock options or stock appreciation rights
subsequent to retirement
or Special Separation shall not render exercisable stock options or stock appreciation rights
which were
unexercisable at the time of the retirement or Special Separation. The persons to whom the
exercisable stock
options or stock appreciation rights have been transferred by will or the laws of descent and
distribution shall
have the privilege of exercising such remaining stock options, stock appreciation rights or
parts thereof, at any
time prior to the expiration date of the stock options or stock appreciation rights.

7. Stock options and stock appreciation rights are not transferable other than by will or by
the laws of
descent and distribution. For the purpose of exercising stock options or stock appreciation
rights after the death
of the recipient, the duly appointed executors and administrators of the estate of the
deceased recipient shall

have the same rights with respect to the stock options and stock appreciation rights as legatees or
distributees would have after distribution to them from the recipient s estate.

8. Upon the exercise of stock appreciation rights, the recipient shall be entitled to receive
a
redemption differential for each such stock appreciation right which shall be the difference
between the then
fair market value of one share of the Common Stock of the Company and the exercise price of
one stock
appreciation right then being exercised. In the case of the redemption of stock appreciation
rights by a
subsidiary of the Company not located in the United States, the redemption differential shall
be calculated in
United States dollars and converted to the appropriate local currency on the exercise date. As
determined by
the Committee, the redemption differential may be paid in cash, Common Stock of the Company to
be valued at
its fair market value on the date of exercise, any other mode of payment deemed appropriate by
the Committee
or any combination thereof. The number of shares with respect to which stock appreciation
rights are being
exercised shall not be available for granting future stock options or stock appreciation
rights under this Plan.

9. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, permit a stock option which is being exercised
either (a)
by an optionee whose retirement is imminent or who has retired or (b) after the death of the
optionee, to be
surrendered, in lieu of exercise, for an amount equal to the difference between the stock
option exercise price
and the fair market value of shares of the Common Stock of the Company on the day the stock
option is
surrendered, payment to be made in shares of the Company s Common Stock which are subject to
this Plan
valued at their fair market value on such date, cash, or a combination thereof, in such
proportion and upon such
terms and conditions as shall be determined by the Committee. The difference between the
number of shares
subject to stock options so surrendered and the number of shares, if any, issued upon such
surrender shall
represent shares which shall not be available for granting future stock options under this
Plan.

10. Time spent on leave of absence shall be considered as employment for the purposes of this
Plan.
Leave of absence means any period of time away from work granted to any employee by his or her
employer
because of illness, injury, or other reasons satisfactory to the employer.

11. The Company reserves the right from time to time to suspend the exercise of any stock
option or
stock appreciation right where such suspension is deemed by it necessary or appropriate for
corporate purposes.
No such suspension shall extend the life of the stock option or stock appreciation right
beyond its expiration
date, and in no event will there be a suspension in the five (5) calendar days immediately
preceding the
expiration date.

ARTICLE H   Payment for Stock Options. 

Upon the exercise of a stock option, payment in full of the exercise price shall be made by
the optionee. As determined by the Committee, the stock option exercise price may be paid for by
the optionee either in cash, shares of the Common Stock of the Company to be valued at their fair
market value on the date of exercise, a combination thereof, or such other method as determined by
the Committee.

ARTICLE I   Transfer of Shares. 

1. The Committee may transfer Common Stock of the Company under the Plan subject to such
conditions or restrictions, if any, as the Committee may determine. The conditions and
restrictions may vary from time to time and with respect to particular employees or group of
employees and may be set forth in agreements between the Company and the employee or in the awards
of stock to them, all as the Committee determines. It is contemplated that the conditions and
restrictions established by the Committee will be consistent with the objectives of this Plan and
may be of the following types. In giving these examples, it is not intended to restrict the
Committee s authority to impose other restrictions or conditions, or to waive restrictions

or conditions under circumstances deemed by the Committee to be appropriate and not contrary to the
best interests of the Company.

(a) 
       
     Restrictions 

The employee will not be able to sell, pledge, or dispose of the shares during a
specified period except in accordance with the agreement or award. Such restrictions
will lapse either after a period of, for example, five years, or in fifteen or fewer
annual installments following retirement or termination of employment, as the Committee
from time to time may determine. However, upon the transfer of shares subject to
restrictions, an employee will have all incidents of ownership in the shares, including
the right to dividends (unless otherwise restricted by the Committee), to vote the
shares, and to make gifts of them to family members (still subject to the
restrictions). 

(b) 
       
     Lapse of Restrictions 

In order to have the restrictions lapse, an employee may be required to continue in the
employ of the Company or a subsidiary for a prescribed period of time. Exemption from
this requirement may be prescribed in the case of death, disability, or retirement, or
as otherwise prescribed by the Committee. 

ARTICLE J   Adjustments. 

In the event of any future reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend,
combination of shares, merger, consolidation, rights offering, share exchange, reclassification,
distribution, spin-off or other change affecting the corporate structure, capitalization or Common
Stock of the Company occuring after the date of approval of the Plan by the Company s
shareholders, (i) the amount of shares authorized to be issued under the Plan and (ii) the number
of shares and/or the exercise prices covered by outstanding stock options and stock appreciation
rights shall be adjusted appropriately and equitably to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights
under the Plan. Following any such change, the term  Common Stock  shall be deemed to refer to
such class of shares or other securities as may be applicable.

ARTICLE K   Additional Provisions. 

1. The Board may, at any time, repeal this Plan or may amend it from time to time except that
no such
amendment may amend this paragraph, increase the annual aggregate number of shares subject to
this Plan,
reduce the price at which stock options or stock appreciation rights may be granted,
exercised, or surrendered,
alter the class of employees eligible to receive stock options, or increase the percentage of
shares authorized to
be transferred as restricted or unrestricted stock. The recipient of awards under this Plan
and the Company
shall be bound by any such amendments as of their effective dates, but if any outstanding
stock options or stock
appreciation rights are affected, notice thereof shall be given to the holders of such stock
options and stock
appreciation rights and such amendments shall not be applicable to such holder without his or
her written
consent. If this Plan is repealed in its entirety, all theretofore granted unexercised stock
options or stock
appreciation rights shall continue to be exercisable in accordance with their terms and shares
subject to
conditions or restrictions transferred pursuant to this Plan shall continue to be subject to
such conditions or
restrictions.

2. In the case of an employee of a subsidiary company, performance under this Plan, including
the
transfer of shares of the Company, may be by the subsidiary. Nothing in this Plan shall affect
the right of the
Company or any subsidiary to terminate the employment of any employee with or without cause.
None of the
participants, either individually or as a group, and no beneficiary or other person claiming
under or through any
participant, shall have any right, title, or interest in any shares of the Company purchased
or reserved for the

purpose of this Plan except as to such shares, if any, as shall have been granted or transferred to
him or her. Nothing in this Plan shall preclude the issuance or transfer of shares of the Company
to employees under any other plan or arrangement now or hereafter in effect.

3.  Subsidiary  means any company in which greater than fifty percent (50%) of the total
combined
voting power of all classes of stock is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company. In
addition, the Board
may designate for participation in this Plan as a  subsidiary,  except for the granting of
incentive stock options,
those additional companies affiliated with the Company in which the Company s direct or
indirect stock
ownership is less than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of all classes
of such company s
stock.

4. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the this Plan, stock options and stock
appreciation
rights granted hereunder shall vest immediately and any conditions or restrictions on Common
Stock shall lapse
upon a  Change in Control.  A  Change in Control  shall mean the occurrence of any of the
following:

(a) 
       
     An acquisition (other than directly from the Company) of any voting securities of
the Company (the
 Voting Securities ) by any  Person  (as the term person is used for purposes of Section
13(d) or
14(d) of the Exchange Act), immediately after which such Person has  Beneficial
Ownership 
(within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of twenty percent
(20%)
or more of the then outstanding Shares or the combined voting power of the Company s then
outstanding Voting Securities;  provided, however,  in determining whether a Change in
Control has
occurred pursuant to this Section 4(a), Shares or Voting Securities which are acquired in
a  Non-
Control Acquisition  (as hereinafter defined) shall not constitute an acquisition which
would cause
a Change in Control. A  Non-Control Acquisition  shall mean an acquisition by (i) an
employee
benefit plan (or a trust forming a part thereof) maintained by (A) the Company or (B) any
corporation or other Person of which a majority of its voting power or its voting equity
securities or
equity interest is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company (for purposes of this
definition, a
 Related Entity ), (ii) the Company or any Related Entity, or (iii) any Person in
connection with a
 Non-Control Transaction  (as hereinafter defined); 

(b) 
       
     The individuals who, as of July 11, 2000 are members of the Board (the  Incumbent
Board ), cease
for any reason to constitute at least half of the members of the Board; or, following a
Merger (as
hereinafter defined) which results in a Parent Corporation (as hereinafter defined), the
board of
directors of the ultimate Parent Corporation;  provided, however,  that if the election, or
nomination
for election by the Company s common stockholders, of any new director was approved by a
vote of
at least two-thirds of the Incumbent Board, such new director shall, for purposes of this
Plan, be
considered as a member of the Incumbent Board;  provided further, however,  that no
individual
shall be considered a member of the Incumbent Board if such individual initially assumed
office as
a result of either an actual or threatened  Election Contest  (as described in Rule
14a-11
promulgated under the Exchange Act) or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies
or
consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board (a  Proxy Contest ) including
by reason
of any agreement intended to avoid or settle any Election Contest or Proxy Contest; or 

(c) 
       
     The consummation of: 

(i) 
       
     A merger, consolidation or reorganization with or into the Company or in
which securities of the Company are issued (a  Merger ), unless such Merger is a
 Non-Control Transaction.  A  Non-Control Transaction  shall mean a Merger where: 

(A) 
       
     the stockholders of the Company, immediately before such Merger own directly or
indirectly immediately following such Merger at least fifty percent (50%) of the 

combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of (x) the
corporation resulting from such Merger (the  Surviving Corporation ) if fifty
percent (50%) or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding
voting securities of the Surviving Corporation is not Beneficially Owned,
directly or indirectly by another Person (a  Parent Corporation ), or (y) if
there is one or more Parent Corporations, the ultimate Parent Corporation; 

(B) 
       
     the individuals who were members of the Incumbent Board
immediately prior to the
execution of the agreement providing for such Merger constitute at least half
of the
members of the board of directors of (x) the Surviving Corporation, if there
is no
Parent Corporation, or (y) if there is one or more Parent Corporations, the
ultimate
Parent Corporation; and 

(C) 
       
     no Person other than (1) the Company, (2) any Related Entity,
(3) any employee benefit
plan (or any trust forming a part thereof) that, immediately prior to such
Merger was
maintained by the Company or any Related Entity, or (4) any Person who,
immediately
prior to such merger, consolidation or reorganization had Beneficial Ownership
of
twenty percent (20%) or more of the then outstanding Voting Securities or
Shares, has
Beneficial Ownership of twenty percent (20%) or more of the combined voting
power
of the outstanding voting securities or common stock of (x) the Surviving
Corporation
if there is no Parent Corporation, or (y) if there is one or more Parent
Corporations, the
ultimate Parent Corporation; 

(ii) 
       
     A complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or 

(iii) 
       
     The sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets
of the Company to any Person (other than a transfer to a Related Entity or under
conditions that would constitute a Non-Control Transaction with the disposition of
assets being regarded as a Merger for this purpose or the distribution to the
Company s stockholders of the stock of a Related Entity or any other assets). 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to occur solely
because any Person (the  Subject Person ) acquired Beneficial Ownership of more than the permitted
amount of the then outstanding Shares or Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of
Shares or Voting Securities by the Company which, by reducing the number of Shares or Voting
Securities then outstanding, increases the proportional number of shares Beneficially Owned by the
Subject Persons, provided that if a Change in Control would occur (but for the operation of this
sentence) as a result of the acquisition of Shares or Voting Securities by the Company, and after
such share acquisition by the Company, the Subject Person becomes the Beneficial Owner of any
additional Shares or Voting Securities which increases the percentage of the then outstanding
Shares or Voting Securities Beneficially Owned by the Subject Person, then a Change in Control
shall occur.

ARTICLE L   Consent 

Every recipient of a stock option, stock appreciation right, or transfer of shares pursuant
to this Plan shall be bound by the terms and provisions of this Plan and of the stock option,
stock appreciation right, or transfer of shares agreement referable thereto, and the acceptance of
any stock option, stock appreciation right, or transfer of shares pursuant to this Plan shall
constitute a binding agreement between the recipient and the Company and its subsidiaries and any
successors in interest to any of them. This Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance
with the laws of the State of Ohio, United States of America.

ARTICLE M   Duration of Plan. 

This Plan will terminate on July 14, 2002 unless a different termination date is fixed by the
shareholders or by action of the Board of Directors, but no such termination shall affect the prior
rights under this Plan of the Company (or any subsidiary) or of anyone to whom stock options or
stock appreciation rights were granted prior thereto or to whom shares have been transferred prior
to such termination.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

1. Shares Awarded as a Portion of Remuneration 

Any shares of Common Stock of the Company awarded as a portion of a participant s remuneration
shall be valued at not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the fair market value of the
Company s Common Stock on the date of the award. These shares may be subject to such conditions or
restrictions as the Committee may determine, including a requirement that the participant remain in
the employ of the Company or one of its subsidiaries for a set period of time, or until retirement.
Failure to abide by any applicable restriction will result in forfeiture of the shares.

2. Tax Effects 

Incentive Stock
Options  

With regard to tax effects which may accrue to the optionee, counsel advises that if
the optionee has continuously been an employee from the time an option has been granted
until at least three months before it is exercised, under existing law no taxable income
results to the optionee from the exercise of an incentive stock option at the time of
exercise. However, the spread at exercise is an  adjustment  item for alternative minimum
tax purposes.

Any gain realized on the sale or other disposition of stock acquired on exercise of an
incentive stock option is considered as long-term capital gain for tax purposes if the
stock has been held more than two years after the date the option was granted and more than
one year after the date of exercise of the option. If the stock is disposed of within one
year after exercise, the lesser of any gain on such disposition or the spread at exercise
(i.e., the excess of the fair market value of the stock on the date of exercise over the
option price) is treated as ordinary income, and any appreciation after the date of
exercise is considered long-term or short-term capital gain to the optionee depending on
the holding period prior to sale. However, the spread at exercise (even if greater than the
gain on the disposition) is treated as ordinary income if the disposition is one on which a
loss, if sustained, is not recognized e.g., a gift, a  wash  sale or a sale to a related
party. The amount of ordinary income recognized by the optionee is treated as a tax
deductible expense to the Company. No other amount relative to an incentive stock option is
a tax deductible expense to the Company.

Nonstatutory Stock Options  

With regard to tax effects which may accrue to the optionee, counsel advises that
under existing tax law gain taxable as ordinary income to the optionee is deemed to be
realized at the date of exercise of the option, the gain on each share being the difference
between the market price on the date of exercise and the option price. This amount is
treated as a tax deductible expense to the Company at the time of the exercise of the
option. Any appreciation in the value of the stock after the date of exercise is considered
a long-term or short-term capital gain to the optionee depending on whether or not the
stock was held for the appropriate holding period prior to sale.

Stock Appreciation Rights  

With regard to tax effects which may accrue to the recipient, counsel advises that
 United States persons,  as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the  I.R.C. ),
must recognize ordinary income as of the date of exercise equal to the amount paid to the
recipient, i.e., the difference between the grant price and the value of the shares on the
date of exercise.

Shares Awarded as a Portion of Remuneration  

With regard to tax effects which may accrue to the recipient, counsel advises that
 United States persons  as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the  I.R.C. ), must
recognize ordinary income in the first taxable year in which the recipient s rights to the
stock are transferable or are not subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture, whichever is
applicable. Recipients who are  United States persons  may also elect to include the income
in their tax returns for the taxable year in which they receive the shares by filing an
election to do so with the appropriate office of the Internal Revenue Service within 30 days
of the date the shares are transferred to them.

The amount includable in income is the fair market value of the shares as of the day
the shares are transferable or not subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture, whichever
is applicable; if the recipient has elected to include the income in the year in which the
shares are received, the amount of income includable is the fair market value of the shares
at the time of transfer.

For non-United States persons, the time when income is realized, its measurement and
its taxation, will depend on the laws of the particular countries in which the recipients
are residents and/or citizens at the time of transfer or when the shares are first
transferable and not subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture, as the case may be.
 United States persons  who receive shares awarded as a portion of remuneration may also
have tax consequences with respect to the receipt of shares or the expiration of
restrictions or substantial risk of forfeiture on such shares under the laws of the
particular country other than the United States of which such person is a resident or
citizen.

Notwithstanding the above advice received by the Company, it is each individual recipient s
responsibility to check with his or her personal tax adviser as to the tax effects and proper
handling of stock options, stock appreciation rights and Common Stock acquired. The above advice
relates specifically to the U.S. consequences of stock options, stock appreciation rights and
Common Stock acquired, including the U.S. consequences to  United States persons  whether or not
resident in the U.S. In addition to U.S. tax consequences, for all persons who are not U.S.
residents, the time when income, if any, is realized, the measurement of such income and its
taxation will also depend on the laws of the particular country other than the U.S. of which such
persons are resident and/or citizens at the time of grant or the time of exercise, as the case may
be.

The Plan is not subject to the qualification requirements of Section 401(a) of the I.R.C.

3. Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 

The Plan is not subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974 ( ERISA ), as amended.

4. Incorporation of Certain Documents by Reference 

The following documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(File No. 1-434) pursuant to the 1934 Act are incorporated into this document by reference:

1. 
       
     The Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001;  

2. 
       
     The Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2001; and 

3. 
       
     All other documents filed by the Company pursuant to Sections 13(a), 13(c), 14
or 15(d) of the
1934 Act after the date of this Prospectus and prior to the filing of a post-effective
amendment
which indicates that all securities offered have been sold or which deregisters all
securities then
remaining unsold. 

The Company will provide without charge to each participant in the Plan, upon oral or written
request, a copy of any or all of these documents other than exhibits to such documents, unless such
exhibits are specifically incorporated by reference into such documents. In addition, the Company
will provide without charge to such participants a copy of the Company s most recent annual report
to shareholders, proxy statement, and other communications distributed generally to security
holders of the Company. Requests for such copies should be directed to Mr. James C. Ashley,
Manager, Shareholder Services, The Procter   Gamble Company, P.O. Box 5572, Cincinnati, Ohio  
45201,
(513) 983-3413.

5. Additional Information 

Additional information about the Plan and its administrators may be obtained from Mr. Terry
L. Overbey, Secretary, The Procter   Gamble Company, One Procter   Gamble Plaza, Cincinnati, Ohio
45202, (513) 983-4463.

</EX-10.2>

<EX-10.3>
 4
 l32996aexv10w3.htm
 EX-10.3

EX-10.3 

EXHIBIT (10-3)

The Procter   Gamble Executive Group Life Insurance Policy

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING  

This memorandum dated as of December 30, 1997, reflects the understanding and agreement between
The Procter   Gamble Company as policyholder ( Policyholder/P G ) of a Flexible Premium Group
Variable Life Insurance Policy (the  Policy ) and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
( Carrier/Metropolitan ).

Policyholder and Carrier understand and agree that the following is in no way inconsistent with the
Policy:

Qualification of the Policy   as   Life Insurance (IRC Sections   7702   and 101)  

Assuming
insurable interest by the Policyholder, Carrier will administer the Policy to qualify as a
life insurance contract under Section 7702 of the Internal Revenue Code (the  IRC ), to have a
bona fide element of risk, and to provide death benefits under the Policy that will be excludible
from taxable income to the extent provided under IRC section 101(a).
On or before the date of this
memorandum, Carrier has provided an opinion from outside counsel addressed to Policyholder that the
Policy complies with the requirements of section 7702. See Exhibit 1.

Qualification of the Policy as a Variable Contract  

Subject to the conditions stated below, Carrier will administer the Policy to (a) be a
 variable contract  within the meaning of Section 817(d) of the Internal Revenue Code and (b) be
based on one or more segregated asset accounts, the assets of which are owned by Carrier and are
adequately diversified, as required by Internal Revenue Code Section 817(h).

Policyholder may determine the percentage of premium payments and/or policy cash value that is
allocated to a specific separate account and will have the right to reallocate amounts among the
separate accounts as provided in the Policy. The Policyholder shall not have the right to manage
the assets of the separate accounts or to direct the purchase or sale of specific investment
assets and will not communicate directly or in any manner with respect to these separate accounts
with any of the managers or sub investment managers of the separate accounts.

Metropolitan will be the investment manager for any Separate Accounts under this Policy.
Separate Accounts may have sub-investment managers chosen by Metropolitan.

The Policy will state that the assets held in each Separate Account will be maintained solely for
the liabilities of the participants in that Separate Account. The Carrier will make provision that
the income, gains and losses of each Separate Account shall be credited to or charged against that
Separate Account s assets and none of the assets held in a Separate Account will be charged as
chargeable with liabilities arising out of any other business of the Carrier or used for purposes
unrelated to the terms and provisions of that Separate Account. On or before the date of this

memorandum, Carrier has provided a letter from its counsel addressed to Policyholder on these
issues. See Exhibit 2.

Underwriting  

Based on the census in the November 11, 1998 illustrations, current participants who are domestic
actives and retirees will be covered under Carrier s Guaranteed Issue program for the plan benefit
and cost recovery amounts in effect on the date the Policy is issued.

Future new participants will be subject to the following  Active at Work  criteria:

not been absent from work due to illness or medical treatment for a period of more than 5
consecutive days in the last 3 months; and 

are actively at work, full time performing all duties of regular occupation, at customary
place of employment. 

The guaranteed issue limit upon entry into the plan by new participants will be $2 million. Based on the current plan design, death benefits under the Policy may be increased without additional underwriting:

by reason of promotional increases verified by P G, and 

by up to 15% per year (with any unused portion of such increment rolling forward for five
years on a cumulative basis) to reflect compensation (salary and bonus) increases, 

subject to a lifetime guaranteed issue limit of $5,000,000 per life, which limit will be reviewed
at least every five years and (absent retention, reinsurance or adverse selection constraints)
adjusted to accommodate anticipated plan benefit and cost recovery amounts. Amounts in excess of
the guaranteed issue limits will, at Carrier s request, be subject to underwriting.

Carrier will not deny claims by reason of the suicide exclusion provision of the Policy. Carrier
acknowledges, accepts and agrees to be bound by consents to insurance, beneficiary designations and
assignments in effect under P G s executive life insurance program.

Cost of Term Insurance Charges  

The Cost of Term Insurance charges ( COI ) for the current active population and new entrants
(meeting the  active at work  requirements) will be based on 90% of Carrier s current Corporate
Universal Life Guaranteed Issue, Sex Distinct, Unismoker rates. The current retirees will have
rates equal to 120% of Carrier s Corporate Universal Life Guaranteed Issue, Sex Distinct, Unismoker
rates.

- 2 - 

P   G will have COI rates equal to the foregoing unless Carrier s Corporate Universal Life
Guaranteed Issue, Sex Distinct, Unismoker rates are increased to the maximum rates of 1980 CSO
table (Table A for males and Table G for females). Only at that time will the rates under this
Policy for actives and new entrants be increased to up to 100% of Corporate Universal Life
Guaranteed Issue, Sex Distinct, Unismoker rates, with a corresponding change in the COI for current
retirees. Any future changes in COI rates will be determined based on changes in Corporate
Universal Life Guaranteed Issue Rates. Metropolitan shall inform the Policyholder in writing at
least 60 days in advance of any changes in such rates.

The Guaranteed Issue, Sex Distinct COI rates are the rates that Metropolitan charges in Individual
Executive Pooled Policies which are selected by the Guaranteed Issue Underwriting procedure and are
filed with the state Insurance Departments. The Corporate Universal Life Product is one of those
policies included in this pool. Any changes in these rates are required to be filed with the state
Insurance Departments and must be justifiable in terms of experience of the Guaranteed Issue
mortality pool. Therefore, the insured employees of this Policy join the mortality pool which is
the aggregate of all insured executives who are selected by the Guaranteed Issue Underwriting
procedure. The future determination of the COI of this pool is by the mortality experience of the
pool in total and is not by the mortality experience of each case or a subgroup of insured lives of
the pool. Any changes in these rates must apply to all policies which are charged the Guaranteed
Issue COI rates, including the Policy.

Upon reasonable notice from Policyholder, Metropolitan will develop COI charges, retention and
retrospective deductions based on the demographics of insured lives in the plan at that time.

The guaranteed maximum COI will never exceed those based on the 1980 CSO Table (Table A for males
and Table G for females).

Enhanced Policy Administration  

At Policyholder s request, Carrier will provide enhanced administrative services with respect to
the Policy. Such services will include:

A. 
       
     Program Analysis 

1. 
       
     Prepare feasibility studies and recommendations of various funding level
alternatives. 

2. 
       
     Provide financial analysis of the program. 

B. 
       
     Program Establishment 

1. 
       
     Provide specimen documents to and reviewing specimen
documents with Policyholder s legal counsel and auditors. 

- 3 - 

2. 
       
     Prepare financial projections and, where applicable, proxy statement text with
respect to the program. 

3. 
       
     Coordinate and establish program implementation and administration, and set up
records and other systems for the program. 

4. 
       
     Process section 1035 exchange. 

C. 
       
     Program Documentation. Provide program documentation, including: 

1. 
       
     Program explanation (including original assumptions). 

2. 
       
     Insurance schedule. 

3. 
       
     Funding assumptions and corporate composite projections. 

4. 
       
     Participant census. 

5. 
       
     Individual participant information. 

6. 
       
     Definition of Payment procedures. 

a. 
       
     Premiums 

b. 
       
     Death benefits. 

c. 
       
     Withdrawals/surrenders. 

d. 
       
     Loans 

D. 
       
     Program Servicing 

1. 
       
     Provide periodic reports on program and policy financial status. 

2. 
       
     Provide information for possible program modifications. 

3. 
       
     Provide ongoing program coordination. 

4. 
       
     Compile updated program data with assistance from Policyholder. 

a. 
       
     New participants 

b. 
       
     Terminations 

c. 
       
     Retirees 

d. 
       
     Deaths 

5. 
       
     Determine current and ongoing funding requirements. 

- 4 - 

6. 
       
     Assist with enrollment of new participants. 

7. 
       
     Prepare detailed annual reviews of program experience to include: 

a. 
       
     Corporate composite projections 

b. 
       
     Program participant census including insurance amount 

8. 
       
     Compile composite billing for program. 

9. 
       
     Timely provide assistance to accountants and auditors for reporting program
transactions on financial statements and/or tax return and other reports or analyses
as reasonably required from time to time by Policyholder. 

10. 
       
     Advise the Policyholder of transactions necessary or desirable to meet program
goals and commitments. 

11. 
       
     Execute quarterly social security sweeps. 

12. 
       
     Annually determine and provide to Policyholder the amount of imputed taxable
income for each participant. 

13. 
       
     Conduct annual performance review. 

E. 
       
     Performance Criteria 

Carrier s enhanced policy administration will be subject to performance criteria mutually
agreed by Carrier and Policyholder from time to time. 

F. 
       
     Termination of Enhanced Policy Administration. 

Policyholder may terminate Carrier s enhanced policy administration at any time on
written notice. 

Policy Expenses  

Front End Load Charges  

1. 
       
     State Premium Tax - state premium tax will be handled as a
pass-through.
Taxes will be assessed based upon the Insureds  state of residence as of
the date of issue of the Policy. 

2. 
       
     Policy DAC Tax -1.20% 

- 5 - 

3. 
       
     Other Charge - if enhanced policy administration is in effect, a
one time set-up charge of $100,000 in the aggregate for all Policies in the
program, in the first policy year. 

Mortality and Expense (M E) Charge  

The M E risk charge is assessed against the average monthly value of the total
policy cash value in all separate accounts and is deducted monthly. The following
M E risk charge is based upon a 4-tier sliding scale and applies for any period when
enhanced policy administration is in effect: 

Under the foregoing schedule, Carrier will not take into consideration the
combined assets in both policies (VEBA Plan and the Split Dollar Plan) for
purposes of calculating the monthly M E expenses for this Policy. Carrier
would, however, take the assets under this Policy into consideration when
determining the M E under the VEBA policy. 

For any period when enhanced policy administration is not in effect, the M E risk
charge is as follows: 

Under this schedule, Carrier will take into consideration the combined assets on
both policies (VEBA Plan and the Split Dollar Plan) in calculating the monthly
M E risk charge for both policies. 

Investment Management Fees  

Investment management fees for each separate account are assessed against the
average monthly value of the policy cash value in a separate account. In calculating
the monthly fee per separate account Carrier will take into consideration the
combined assets in both policies (VEBA Plan and the Split Dollar Plan) which are
invested in the same separate account(s). The investment management fees for the
current commingled separate accounts can be found in the Offering Memorandum. 

- 6 - 

Custody and Securities Accounting/Valuation  

There are no separate charges for these functions for the commingled separate
accounts. However, there are pass through charges for these functions for single
customer accounts. 

Policy Administration Charge  

Currently, and as illustrated, the Policy Administration Charge is a per insured
life charge of $5.00 per month in all policy years. The current charge may be
reduced by the Carrier from time to time, and reductions in the Carrier s costs
incurred to service the Policy will be commensurately reflected in the current
charge. The guaranteed maximum monthly charge for administration is $5.00 per
insured. 

Changes in Pricing for Other Than the Cost of Insurance Charges  

Carrier will not change the charges or fees related to factors under its control. Changes based on
external factors may be reflected in the Policy.

For purposes of this paragraph, Carrier s profit goals and the contribution of Specialized Benefit
Resources organization to overhead are not external factors. The external factors that may be
reflected include (i) Federal and State legislation and state insurance statutory and regulatory
changes, and (ii) after the first three policy years, increase in investment management, custody
and securities accounting/valuation charges pertaining to P G single-customer accounts by the
providers of these services.

Any increase in price due to external factors will be documented and the price increase, if
appropriate, will be only to recover the increased cost of the Carrier. With respect to any
increase in charges pursuant to this section, P G may audit the relevant records of Metropolitan
pursuant to an appropriate nondisclosure document.

Governing Law  

The validity, construction, interpretation, and effect of this memorandum of understanding and the
Policy shall be governed by the laws of the state of Ohio, without regard to Ohio s choice of law
rules.

Changes to this Memorandum  

Except with respect to changes mandated by state and federal law and as otherwise specifically
provided in this Memorandum or the Policy, this Memorandum may be changed only by mutual agreement
among the affected parties.

- 7 - 

Notices  

Unless and until the parties give written notice otherwise, whenever this Memorandum provides for
notices or consents in writing to be given by one of the parties hereto to the other, such notices
or consent will be given when addressed and delivered to the following or their successors:

(1)

The Procter   Gamble Company

(2 
     ) 
       
     Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. 

Global Pensions

Specialized Benefit Resources 

Two Procter   Gamble Plaza

485B Route One South, Suite 420 

Cincinnati, Ohio 45202-3315

Iselin, New Jersey 08830 

Attn: Clare Clark, Group Manager

Attn: G. Denis Dwyer, Vice President 

All such notices or consents must be sent by U.S. Certified Mail, Return Receipt Requested.

Agreed: 

THE PROCTER         GAMBLE COMPANY  

METROPOLITAN LIFE  

INSURANCE COMPANY 

By:

/s/ C. S. Clark

By:

/s/ John J. Ryan 

Group Manager Global Pensions

Vice President 

(Title) 

(Title)  

C. S. Clark

John J. Ryan 

(Print or Type Name) 

(Print or Type Name)  

Dec. 30, 1997

Dec. 30, 1997 

(Date) 

(Date)  

- 8 - 

</EX-10.3>

<EX-10.5>
 5
 l32996aexv10w5.htm
 EX-10.5

EX-10.5 

EXHIBIT (10-5)

The Procter   Gamble 1993 Non-Employee Directors  Stock Plan

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE 1993 NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS  
STOCK PLAN 
(as amended September 10, 2002) 

ARTICLE A   Purpose. 

The purpose of The Procter   Gamble 1993 Non-Employee Directors  Stock Plan (hereinafter
referred to as the  Plan ) is to strengthen the alignment of interests between non-employee
Directors (hereinafter referred to as  Participants ) and the shareholders of The Procter   Gamble
Company (hereinafter referred to as the  Company ) through the increased ownership of shares of
the Company s Common Stock. This will be accomplished by allowing Participants to elect
voluntarily to convert a portion or all of their cash fees for services as a Director into Common
Stock, by granting Participants a fixed value of shares of Common Stock restricted until
retirement (hereinafter referred to as  Retirement Shares ) and by granting Participants
non-qualified options to purchase shares of Common Stock (hereinafter referred to as  Stock
Options ).

ARTICLE B   Administration. 

1. The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee
(hereinafter referred to as the  Committee ) of the Board of Directors of the Company
(hereinafter referred to as the  Board ), or such other committee as may be designated by
the Board. The Committee shall consist of not less than three (3) members of the Board
who are  Non-Employee Directors  as defined in Rule 16b-3 under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any successor rule or definition adopted by the
Securities and Exchange Commission, to be appointed by the Board from time to time
and to serve at the discretion of the Board.

2. It shall be the duty of the Committee to administer this Plan in accordance
with its provisions and to make such recommendations of amendments or otherwise as it
deems necessary or appropriate. A decision by a majority of the Committee shall govern
all actions of the Committee.

3. Subject to the express provisions of this Plan, the Committee shall have
authority to allow Participants the right to elect to receive fees for services as a director
in
either cash or an equivalent amount of whole shares of Common Stock of the Company,
or partly in cash and partly in whole shares of the Common Stock of the Company,
subject to such conditions or restrictions, if any, as the Committee may determine. The
Committee also has the authority to make all other determinations it deems necessary or
advisable for administering this Plan.

4. The Committee may establish from time to time such regulations,
provisions, and procedures within the terms of this Plan as, in its opinion, may be
advisable in the administration of this Plan.

5. The Committee may designate the Secretary of the Company or other employees of the Company
to assist the Committee in the administration of this Plan and may grant authority to such persons
to execute documents on behalf of the Committee.

ARTICLE C   Participation. 

Participation in the Plan shall be limited to all non-employee Directors of the Company.

ARTICLE D   Limitation on Number of Shares for the Plan. 

The total number of shares of Common Stock of the Company that may be awarded each year shall
not exceed 50,000 shares.

ARTICLE E   Shares Subject to Use Under the Plan. 

Shares of Common Stock to be awarded under the terms of this Plan shall be treasury shares.

ARTICLE F   Retirement Shares 

1. On the first business day in January, each Participant shall receive Retirement
Shares with a fair market value of $45,000 on the date of grant.

2. All shares awarded under this Article shall be valued as set forth in Article I.

ARTICLE G   Stock Options. 

1. The Committee may, from time to time, grant Participants a Stock Option
to purchase shares of Common Stock having an exercise price of one hundred percent
(100%) of the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date of the grant.

2. The Stock Options shall have a term of ten (10) years from the date of
grant, subject to earlier termination as provided herein, and shall be exercisable 100%
three (3) years from the date of grant, except in the case of death, in which case the Stock
Options shall be immediately exercisable.

3. Stock Options are not transferable other than by will or by the laws of
descent and distribution. Legatees, distributees and duly appointed executors and
administrators of the estate of a deceased Participant shall have the right to exercise such
Stock Options at any time prior to the expiration date of the Stock Options.

4. If a Participant ceases to be a Director while holding unexercised Stock
Options, such stock options are then void, except in the case of (i) death, (ii) disability,

(iii) retirement at the end of a term, (iv) retirement after attaining the age of sixty-nine (69),
(v) resignation from the Board following the Participant s retirement from a principal employer
under the terms of an appropriate retirement plan or (vi) resignation from the Board for reasons of
the antitrust laws or the conflict of interest, corporate governance or continued service policies.

5. Upon the exercise of a Stock Option, payment in full of the exercise price shall be made
by the Participant. The exercise price may be paid for by the Participant either in cash, shares
of the Common Stock of the Company to be valued at their fair market value on the date of
exercise, or a combination thereof.

ARTICLE H   Adjustments. 

In the event of any future reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend,
combination of shares, merger, consolidation, rights offering, share exchange, reclassification,
distribution, spin-off or other change affecting the corporate structure, capitalization or Common
Stock of the Company occuring after the date of approval of the Plan by the Company s shareholders,
(i) the amount of shares authorized to be issued under the Plan and (ii) the number of shares
and/or the exercise prices covered by outstanding stock options and stock appreciation rights shall
be adjusted appropriately and equitably to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights under the
Plan. Following any such change, the term  Common Stock  shall be deemed to refer to such class of
shares or other securities as may be applicable.

ARTICLE I   Transfer of Shares. 

1. The Committee may transfer Common Stock of the Company under the
Plan subject to such conditions or restrictions, if any, as the Committee may determine.
The conditions and restrictions may vary from time to time and may be set forth in
agreements between the Company and the Participant or in the awards of stock to them,
all as the Committee determines.

2. The shares awarded shall be valued at the average of the high and low
quotations for Common Stock of the Company on the New York Stock Exchange on the
day of the transfer to a Participant. All shares awarded shall be full shares, rounded up to
the nearest whole share.

ARTICLE J   Additional Provisions. 

1. The Board may, at any time, repeal this Plan or may amend it from time to time except
that no such amendment may amend this paragraph, increase the annual aggregate number of shares
subject to this Plan, or alter the persons eligible to participate in this Plan. The Participants
and the Company shall be bound by any such amendments as of their effective dates, but if any
outstanding awards are affected, notice thereof shall be given to the holders of such awards and
such amendments shall not be applicable to

such holder without his or her written consent. If this Plan is repealed in its entirety, all
theretofore awarded shares subject to conditions or restrictions transferred pursuant to this Plan
shall continue to be subject to such conditions or restrictions.

2. Every recipient of shares pursuant to this Plan shall be bound by the terms and provisions
of this Plan and of the transfer of shares agreement referable thereto, and the acceptance of any
transfer of shares pursuant to this Plan shall constitute a binding agreement between the
recipient and the Company.

3. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the this Plan, stock options and stock
appreciation rights granted hereunder shall vest immediately and any conditions or restrictions on
Common Stock shall lapse upon a  Change in Control.  A  Change in Control  shall mean the
occurrence of any of the following:

(a) 
       
     An acquisition (other than directly from the Company) of any voting securities
of the Company (the  Voting Securities ) by any  Person  (as the term person
is used for purposes of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Exchange Act),
immediately after which such Person has  Beneficial Ownership  (within the
meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of twenty
percent (20%) or more of the then outstanding Shares or the combined voting
power of the Company s then outstanding Voting Securities;  provided,
however,  in determining whether a Change in Control has occurred pursuant
to this Section 4(a), Shares or Voting Securities which are acquired in a  Non-
Control Acquisition  (as hereinafter defined) shall not constitute an
acquisition which would cause a Change in Control. A  Non-Control
Acquisition  shall mean an acquisition by (i) an employee benefit plan (or a
trust forming a part thereof) maintained by (A) the Company or (B) any
corporation or other Person of which a majority of its voting power or its
voting equity securities or equity interest is owned, directly or indirectly, by
the Company (for purposes of this definition, a  Related Entity ), (ii) the
Company or any Related Entity, or (iii) any Person in connection with a  Non-
Control Transaction  (as hereinafter defined); 

(b) 
       
     The individuals who, as of July 11, 2000 are members of the Board (the
 Incumbent Board ), cease for any reason to constitute at least half of the
members of the Board; or, following a Merger (as hereinafter defined) which
results in a Parent Corporation (as hereinafter defined), the board of directors
of the ultimate Parent Corporation;  provided, however,  that if the election, or
nomination for election by the Company s common stockholders, of any new
director was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Incumbent Board,
such new director shall, for purposes of this Plan, be considered as a member
of the Incumbent Board;  provided further, however,  that no individual shall be
considered a member of the Incumbent Board if such individual initially
assumed office as a result of either an actual or threatened  Election Contest 
(as described in Rule 14a-11 promulgated under the Exchange Act) or other 

actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other
than the Board (a  Proxy Contest ) including by reason of any agreement intended to avoid or
settle any Election Contest or Proxy Contest; or 

(c) 
       
     The consummation of: 

(i) 
       
     A merger, consolidation or reorganization with or into the Company or in
which securities of the Company are issued (a  Merger ), unless such Merger is a
 Non-Control Transaction.  A  Non-Control Transaction  shall mean a Merger where: 

(A) 
       
     the stockholders of the Company, immediately before such Merger
own directly or indirectly immediately following such Merger at
least fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the
outstanding voting securities of (x) the corporation resulting from
such Merger (the  Surviving Corporation ) if fifty percent (50%) or
more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting
securities of the Surviving Corporation is not Beneficially Owned,
directly or indirectly by another Person (a  Parent Corporation ), or
(y) if there is one or more Parent Corporations, the ultimate Parent
Corporation; 

(B) 
       
     the individuals who were members of the Incumbent Board
immediately prior to the execution of the agreement providing for
such Mergerconstitute at least half of the members of the board of
directors of (x) the Surviving Corporation, if there is no Parent
Corporation, or (y) if there is one or more Parent Corporations, the
ultimate Parent Corporation; and 

(C) 
       
     no Person other than (1) the Company, (2) any Related Entity, (3)
any employee benefit plan (or any trust forming a part thereof) that,
immediately prior to such Merger was maintained by the Company
or any Related Entity, or (4) any Person who, immediately prior to
such merger, consolidation or reorganization had Beneficial
Ownership of twenty percent (20%) or more of the then
outstanding Voting Securities or Shares, has Beneficial Ownership
of twenty percent (20%) or more of the combined voting power of
the outstanding voting securities or common stock of (x) the
Surviving Corporation if there is no Parent Corporation, or (y) if
there is one or more Parent Corporations, the ultimate Parent
Corporation; 

(ii) 
       
     A complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or 

(iii) 
       
     The sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets
of the Company to any Person (other than a transfer to a Related Entity or under
conditions that would constitute a Non-Control Transaction with the disposition
of assets being regarded as a Merger for this purpose or the distribution to the
Company s stockholders of the stock of a Related Entity or any other assets). 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to occur solely because
any Person (the  Subject Person ) acquired Beneficial Ownership of more than the permitted amount
of the then outstanding Shares or Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Shares or
Voting Securities by the Company which, by reducing the number of Shares or Voting Securities then
outstanding, increases the proportional number of shares Beneficially Owned by the Subject Persons,
provided that if a Change in Control would occur (but for the operation of this sentence) as a
result of the acquisition of Shares or Voting Securities by the Company, and after such share
acquisition by the Company, the Subject Person becomes the Beneficial Owner of any additional
Shares or Voting Securities which increases the percentage of the then outstanding Shares or Voting
Securities Beneficially Owned by the Subject Person, then a Change in Control shall occur.

ARTICLE K   Duration of Plan. 

This Plan shall be effective as of January 1, 1994. This Plan will terminate on December 31,
2003 unless a different termination date is fixed by the shareholders or by action of the Board but
no such termination shall affect the prior rights under this Plan of the Company or of anyone to
whom shares have been transferred prior to such termination.

Plan adopted November 9, 1993 
Plan approved by shareholders on October 11, 1994 
Plan Amended January 10, 1995 
Plan Amended June 11, 1996 
Adjusted for August 22, 1997 stock split 
Plan amended January 12, 1999 
Plan amended July 11, 2000 
Plan amended December 12, 2000 
Plan amended December 11, 2001 
Plan amended September 10, 2002

</EX-10.5>

<EX-10.6>
 6
 l32996aexv10w6.htm
 EX-10.6

EX-10.6 

EXHIBIT (10-6)

The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan (Belgian Version)

The Procter   Gamble Company 
Executive Offices 
1 Procter   Gamble Plaza, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202-3315 

December 11, 2001

To:        Participants in The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan (Belgian Version)

This document provides a copy of The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan (Belgian Version)
followed by important Additional Information. Please save this with your stock option materials.

Very truly yours, 
  
Terry L. Overbey 
Secretary            

This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities that have been registered
under the Securities Act of 1933. 

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE 1992 STOCK PLAN (BELGIAN VERSION)  
(as amended December 11, 2001)

1,000,000 Shares of Common Stock of The Procter   Gamble Company 
and 
1,000,000 Options to Purchase Common Stock of The Procter   Gamble Company

ARTICLE A   Purpose. 

The purpose of The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan (Belgian Version) (hereinafter referred to
as the  Plan ) is to encourage those employees of The Procter   Gamble Company (hereinafter
referred to as the  Company ) and its subsidiaries who are largely responsible for the long-term
success and development of the business to strengthen the alignment of interests between employees
and the Company s shareholders through the increased ownership of shares of the Company s Common
Stock, and to encourage those employees to remain in the employ of the Company and its
subsidiaries. This will be accomplished through the granting or sale to employees of options to
purchase shares of the Common Stock of the Company, payment of a portion of the employees 
remuneration in shares of the Common Stock, and the granting to them by the Company and a
subsidiary, if appropriate, of deferred awards related to the increase in the price of the Common
Stock of the Company as provided by the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan.

ARTICLE B   Administration. 

1. The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee (hereinafter referred to as
the  Committee ) of the Board of Directors of the Company (hereinafter referred to as the
 Board ), or
such other committee as may be designated by the Board. The Committee shall consist of not
less than
three (3) members of the Board who are neither officers nor employees, or members of the Board
who
are  Non-Employee Directors  as defined in Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as
amended (hereinafter referred to as the  1934 Act ), or any successor rule or definition
adopted by the
Securities and Exchange Commission, to be appointed by the Board from time to time and to
serve at the
discretion of the Board.

2. It shall be the duty of the Committee to administer this Plan in accordance with its
provisions, to report thereon not less than once each year to the Board and to make
such
recommendations of amendments or otherwise as it deem necessary or appropriate. A decision
by a
majority of the Committee shall govern all actions of the Committee.

3. Subject to the express provisions of this Plan, the Committee shall have authority: to
grant or
offer for sale nonstatutory and incentive stock options; to grant to recipients stock
appreciation rights
either freestanding, in tandem with simultaneously granted or sold stock options, or in
parallel with
simultaneously granted or sold stock options; to award a portion of a recipient s remuneration
in shares
of Common Stock of the Company subject to such conditions or restrictions, if any, as the
Committee
may determine; to determine all the terms and provisions of the respective stock option, stock
appreciation right, and stock award agreements including setting the dates when each stock
option or
stock appreciation right or part thereof may be exercised and determining the conditions and
restrictions,
if any, of any shares of Common Stock acquired through the exercise of any stock option; and
to make
all other determinations it deems necessary or advisable for administering this Plan;
provided, however,
the Committee shall have the further authority at time of grant to:

(a) 
       
     waive the provisions of Article F, paragraph l(a); 

(b) 
       
     waive the provisions of Article F, paragraph l(b); 

(c) 
       
     waive the provisions of Article G, paragraph 4(a) and (b); and 

(d) 
       
     impose conditions in lieu of those set forth in Article G, paragraphs 4 through 7,
for nonstatutory stock options, stock appreciation rights, and stock award grants which
do not increase or extend the rights of the recipient, 

to take into consideration the differences, limitations, and requirements of non-United States
laws or conditions including tax regulations, exchange controls or investment restrictions,
possible unenforceability of any part of this Plan, or other matters deemed appropriate by it.

4. The Committee may establish from time to time such regulations, provisions, and procedures
within the terms of this Plan as, in its opinion, may be advisable in the administration of
this Plan.

5. The Committee may designate the Secretary of the Company or other employees of the
Company to assist the Committee in the administration of this Plan and may grant authority to
such
persons to execute documents on behalf of the Committee.

ARTICLE C   Participation. 

The Committee shall select those employees of the Company and its subsidiaries who, in the
opinion of the Committee, have demonstrated a capacity for contributing in a substantial manner to
the success of such companies and shall determine the number of shares of the Common Stock of the
Company to be transferred under this Plan subject to such conditions or restrictions as the
Committee may determine and the number of shares with respect to which stock options or stock
appreciation rights will be granted or sold. The Committee may consult with the Chief Executive,
but nevertheless the Committee has the full authority to act, and the Committee s actions shall be
final.

ARTICLE D   Limitation on Number of Shares for the Plan. 

1. Unless otherwise authorized by the shareholders, the maximum aggregate number of shares
available for award under this Plan for each calendar year the Plan is in effect, when
combined with the
maximum aggregate number of shares available for award under The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock
Plan
in such calendar year, shall be one percent (1%) of the total issued shares of Common Stock of
the
Company as of June 30 of the immediately preceding fiscal year.

2. Any of the authorized shares may be used in respect of any of the types of awards described
in this Plan, except that no more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the authorized shares in
any calendar
year may be issued as restricted or unrestricted stock and no more than 1,000,000 of the authorized shares during the term of the Plan may be issued as incentive stock options.

3. Any authorized shares not used in a calendar year shall be available for awards under this
Plan in succeeding calendar years.

ARTICLE E   Shares Subject to Use Under the Plan. 

1. The shares to be delivered by the Company upon exercise of stock options or stock
appreciation rights shall be either authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares, as
determined by the
Board. In the case of redemption of stock appreciation rights by one of the Company s
subsidiaries, such shares shall be shares acquired by that subsidiary.

2. For purposes of this Plan, restricted or unrestricted stock awarded under the terms of this
Plan shall be authorized but unissued shares, treasury shares, or shares acquired for purposes
of the Plan
by the Company or a subsidiary, as determined by the Board.

ARTICLE F   Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights. 

1. In addition to such other conditions as may be established by the Committee, in
consideration of the granting or sale of stock options or stock appreciation rights under the terms
of this Plan, the recipient agrees as follows:

(a) 
       
     The right to exercise any stock option or stock appreciation right shall be
conditional upon
certification by the recipient at time of exercise that the recipient intends to remain
in the
employ of the Company or one of its subsidiaries (except in cases of retirement,
disability or
Special Separation as defined in section 6 of Article G) for at least one (1) year
following the
date of the exercise of the stock option or stock appreciation right, and, 

(b) 
       
     In order to better protect the goodwill of the Company and its subsidiaries and to
prevent the
disclosure of the Company s or it subsidiaries  trade secrets and confidential
information and
thereby help insure the long-term success of the business, the recipient, without prior
written
consent of the Company, will not engage in any activity or provide any services, whether
as a
director, manager, supervisor, employee, adviser, consultant or otherwise, for a period
of
three (3) years following the date of the recipient s termination of employment with the
Company (except for terminations of employment resulting from retirement or Special
Separation), in connection with the manufacture, development, advertising, promotion, or
sale of any product which is the same as or similar to or competitive with any products
of the
Company or its subsidiaries (including both existing products as well as products known
to
the recipient, as a consequence of the recipient s employment with the Company or one of
its
subsidiaries, to be in development): 

(1) 
       
     with respect to which the recipient s work has been directly concerned
at any time
during the two (2) years preceding termination of employment with the Company or
one of its subsidiaries or 

(2) 
       
     with respect to which during that period of time the recipient, as a
consequence of the
recipient s job performance and duties, acquired knowledge of trade secrets or
other
confidential information of the Company or its subsidiaries. 

For purposes of this section, it shall be conclusively presumed that recipients have
knowledge of information they were directly exposed to through actual receipt or review
of memos or documents containing such information, or through actual attendance at
meetings at which such information was discussed or disclosed. 

(c) 
       
     The provisions of this Article are not in lieu of, but are in addition to the
continuing
obligation of the recipient (which recipient hereby acknowledges) to not use or disclose
the
Company s or its subsidiaries  trade secrets and confidential information known to the
recipient until any particular trade secret or confidential information become generally
known (through no fault of the recipient), whereupon the restriction on use and
disclosure
shall cease as to that item. Information regarding products in development, in test
marketing
or being marketed or promoted in a discrete geographic region, which information the
Company or one of its subsidiaries is considering for broader use, shall not be deemed
generally known until such broader use is actually commercially implemented. As used in
this Article,  generally known  means known throughout the domestic U. S. industry or,
in
the case of recipients who have job responsibilities outside of the United States, the
appropriate foreign country or countries  industry. 

(d) 
       
     By acceptance of any offered stock option or stock appreciation rights granted or
sold under
the terms of this Plan, the recipient acknowledges that if the recipient were, without
authority, to use or disclose the Company s or any of its subsidiaries  trade secrets or
confidential information or threaten to do so, the Company or one of its subsidiaries
would
be entitled to injunctive and other appropriate relief to prevent the recipient from
doing so. 

The recipient acknowledges that the harm caused to the Company by the breach or
anticipated breach of this Article is by its nature irreparable because, among other
things, it is not readily susceptible of proof as to the monetary harm that would ensue.
The recipient consents that any interim or final equitable relief entered by a court of
competent jurisdiction shall, at the request of the Company or one of its subsidiaries,
be entered on consent and enforced by any court having jurisdiction over the recipient,
without prejudice to any rights either party may have to appeal from the proceedings
which resulted in any grant of such relief. 

(e) 
       
     If any of the provisions contained in this Article shall for any reason, whether
by application of existing law or law which may develop after the recipient s
acceptance of an offer of the granting or sale of stock appreciation rights or stock
options, be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be overly broad as to
scope of activity, duration, or territory, the recipient agrees to join the Company or
any of its subsidiaries in requesting such court to construe such provision by limiting
or reducing it so as to be enforceable to the extent compatible with then applicable
law. If any one or more of the terms, provisions, covenants, or restrictions of this
Article shall be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or
unenforceable, then the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants, and restrictions
of this Article shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected,
impaired, or invalidated. 

2. The fact that an employee has been granted or sold a stock option or a stock appreciation
right under this Plan shall not limit the right of the employer to terminate the recipient s
employment at
any time. The Committee is authorized to suspend or terminate any outstanding stock option or
stock
appreciation right for actions taken prior to termination of employment if the Committee
determines the
recipient has acted significantly contrary to the best interests of the Company.

3. More than one stock option or stock appreciation right may be granted or sold to any
employee under this Plan but the maximum number of shares with respect to which stock options
or
stock appreciation rights may be granted or sold to any employee in any calendar year shall
not exceed
five percent (5%) of the number of shares which can be issued or transferred annually
hereunder, when
combined with the maximum aggregate number of shares available for award under The Procter  
Gamble 1992 Stock Plan in such calendar year.

4. The aggregate fair market value (determined at the time when the incentive stock option is
exercisable for the first time by an employee during any calendar year) of the shares for
which any
employee may be granted or sold incentive stock options under this Plan and all other stock
option plans
of the Company and its subsidiaries in any calendar year shall not exceed $100,000 (or such
other
amount as reflected in the limits imposed by Section 422(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as it
may be amended from time to time).

5. If the Committee grants or sells incentive stock options, all such stock options shall
contain
such provisions as permit them to qualify as  incentive stock options  within the meaning of
Section 422
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as may be amended from time to time.

6. With respect to stock options granted or sold in tandem with or parallel to stock
appreciation
rights, the exercise of either such stock options or such stock appreciation rights will
result in the
simultaneous cancellation of the same number of tandem or parallel stock appreciation rights
or stock
options, as the case may be.

7. The exercise price for all stock options and stock appreciation rights shall be established
by
the Committee at the time of their grant or, in the case of stock options to be sold, at the
time of offer of
such stock options for sale, and shall be not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the fair
market
value of the Common Stock of the Company on such date.

ARTICLE G   Exercise of Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights. 

1. All stock options and stock appreciation rights granted or sold hereunder shall have a
maximum life of no more than fifteen (15) years from the date of grant or, in the case of
stock options to
be sold, from the date of the offer of such options for sale.

2. No stock options or stock appreciation rights shall be exercisable within one (1) year from
their date of grant or, in the case of stock options to be sold, from the date of the offer of
such options for
sale, except in the case of the death of the recipient.

3. During the lifetime of the recipient, stock options and stock appreciation rights may be
exercised only by the recipient personally, or, in the event of the legal incompetence of the
recipient, by
the recipient s duly appointed legal guardian.

4. In case a recipient of stock options or stock appreciation rights ceases to be an employee
of
the Company or any of its subsidiaries while holding an unexercised stock option or stock
appreciation
right:

(a) 
       
     Any unexercisable portions thereof are then void, except in the case of: (1)
death of the
recipient; (2) any Special Separation (as defined in section 6 of this Article G) that
occurs
more than six months from the date the options were granted or, in the case of stock
options
to be sold, from the date of the offer of such options for sale; or (3) any option as to
which
the Committee has waived, at the time of grant or, in the case of stock options to be
sold, at
the time of the offer of such options for sale, the provisions of this Article G,
paragraph 4(a)
pursuant to the authority granted by Article B, paragraph 3. 

(b) 
       
     Any exercisable portions thereof are then void, except in the case of death,
retirement in
accordance with the provisions of any appropriate profit sharing or retirement plan of
the
Company or any of its subsidiaries, Special Separation (as defined in section 6 of this
Article
G) of the recipient, or any option as to which the Committee has waived, at the time of
grant
or, in the case of stock options to be sold, at the time of offer of such options for
sale, the
provisions of this Article G, paragraph 4(b) pursuant to the authority granted by
Article B,
paragraph 3. 

5. In the case of the death of a recipient of stock options or stock appreciation rights while
an
employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, the persons to whom the stock options or
stock
appreciation rights have been transferred by will or the laws of descent and distribution
shall have the
privilege of exercising remaining stock options, stock appreciation rights or parts thereof,
whether or not
exercisable on the date of death of such employee, at any time prior to the expiration date of
the stock
options or stock appreciation rights.

6. Termination of employment under the permanent disability provision of any appropriate
profit sharing or retirement plan of the Company or any of its subsidiaries shall be deemed
the same as
retirement. Special Separation means any termination of employment, except a termination for
cause or a
voluntary resignation that is not initiated or encouraged by the Company, that occurs prior to
the time a
recipient is eligible to retire. The death of a recipient of stock options or stock
appreciation rights
subsequent to retirement or Special Separation shall not render exercisable stock options or
stock
appreciation rights which were unexercisable at the time of the retirement or Special
Separation. The
persons to whom the exercisable stock options or stock appreciation rights have been
transferred by will
or the laws of descent and distribution shall have the privilege of exercising such remaining
stock
options, stock appreciation rights or parts thereof, at any time prior to the expiration date
of the stock
options or stock appreciation rights.

7. Stock options and stock appreciation rights are not transferable other than by will or by
the
laws of descent and distribution and they may not be assigned or hypothecated. For the
purpose of
exercising stock options or stock appreciation rights after the death of the recipient, the
duly appointed
executors and administrators of the estate of the deceased recipient shall have the same
rights with

respect to the stock options and stock appreciation rights as legatees or distributees would have
after distribution to them from the recipient s estate.

8. Upon the exercise of stock appreciation rights, the recipient shall be entitled to receive a
redemption differential for each such stock appreciation right which shall be the difference
between the
then fair market value of one share of the Common Stock of the Company and the exercise price
of one
stock appreciation right then being exercised. In the case of the redemption of stock
appreciation rights
by a subsidiary of the Company not located in the United States, the redemption differential
shall be
calculated in United States dollars and converted to the appropriate local currency on the
exercise date.
As determined by the Committee, the redemption differential may be paid in cash, Common Stock
of the
Company to be valued at its fair market value on the date of exercise, any other mode of
payment
deemed appropriate by the Committee or any combination thereof. The number of shares with
respect to
which stock appreciation rights are being exercised shall not be available for granting or
selling future
stock options or stock appreciation rights under this Plan.

9. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, permit a stock option which is being exercised
either (a) by an optionee whose retirement is imminent or who has retired or (b) after the
death of the
optionee, to be surrendered, in lieu of exercise, for an amount equal to the difference
between the stock
option exercise price and the fair market value of shares of the Common Stock of the Company
on the
day the stock option is surrendered, payment to be made in shares of the Company s Common
Stock
which are subject to this Plan valued at their fair market value on such date, cash, or a
combination
thereof, in such proportion and upon such terms and conditions as shall be determined by the
Committee.
The difference between the number of shares subject to stock options so surrendered and the
number of shares, if any, issued upon such surrender shall represent shares which shall not be available
for granting
or selling future stock options under this Plan.

10. Time spent on leave of absence shall be considered as employment for the purposes of this
Plan. Leave of absence means any period of time away from work granted to any employee by his
or her
employer because of illness, injury, or other reasons satisfactory to the employer.

11. The Company reserves the right from time to time to suspend the exercise of any stock
option or stock appreciation right where such suspension is deemed by it necessary or
appropriate for
corporate purposes. No such suspension shall extend the life of the stock option or stock
appreciation
right beyond its expiration date, and in no event will there be a suspension in the five (5)
calendar days
immediately preceding the expiration date.

ARTICLE H   Payment for Stock Options. 

Upon the exercise of a stock option, payment in full of the exercise price shall be made by
the optionee. As determined by the Committee, the stock option exercise price may be paid for by
the optionee either in cash, shares of the Common Stock of the Company to be valued at their fair
market value on the date of exercise, a combination thereof, or such other method as determined
by the Committee.

ARTICLE I   Transfer of Shares. 

1. The Committee may transfer Common Stock of the Company under the Plan subject to such
conditions or restrictions, if any, as the Committee may determine. The conditions and
restrictions may vary from time to time and with respect to particular employees or group of
employees and may be set forth in agreements between the Company and the employee or in the
awards of stock to them, all as the Committee determines. It is contemplated that the conditions
and restrictions established by the Committee will be consistent with the objectives of this Plan
and may be of the following types. In giving these examples, it is not intended to restrict the
Committee s authority to impose other restrictions or conditions, or to waive restrictions or
conditions under circumstances deemed by the Committee to be appropriate and not contrary to the
best interests of the Company.

(a) 
       
     Restrictions 

The employee will not be able to sell, pledge, or dispose of the shares during a
specified period except in accordance with the agreement or award. Such restrictions
will lapse either after a period of, for example, five years, or in fifteen or fewer
annual installments following retirement or termination of employment, as the Committee
from time to time may determine. However, upon the transfer of shares subject to
restrictions, an employee will have all incidents of ownership in the shares, including
the right to dividends (unless otherwise restricted by the Committee), to vote the shares, and to make gifts of them to family members (still subject to the restrictions). 

(b) 
       
     Lapse of Restrictions 

In order to have the restrictions lapse, an employee may be required to continue in the
employ of the Company or a subsidiary for a prescribed period of time. Exemption from
this requirement may be prescribed in the case of death, disability, or retirement, or
as otherwise prescribed by the Committee. 

ARTICLE J   Adjustments. 

In the event of any future reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend,
combination of shares, merger, consolidation, rights offering, share exchange, reclassification,
distribution, spin-off or other change affecting the corporate structure, capitalization or Common
Stock of the Company occuring after the date of approval of the Plan by the Company s
shareholders, (i) the amount of shares authorized to be issued under the Plan and (ii) the number
of shares and/or the exercise prices covered by outstanding stock options and stock appreciation
rights shall be adjusted appropriately and equitably to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights
under the Plan. Following any such change, the term  Common Stock  shall be deemed to refer to
such class of shares or other securities as may be applicable.

ARTICLE K   Additional Provisions. 

1. The Board may, at any time, repeal this Plan or may amend it from time to time. The
recipient of awards under this Plan and the Company shall be bound by any such amendments as
of their
effective dates, but if any outstanding stock options or stock appreciation rights are
affected, notice
thereof shall be given to the holders of such stock options and stock appreciation rights and
such
amendments shall not be applicable to such holder without his or her written consent. If
this Plan is
repealed in its entirety, all theretofore granted or sold unexercised stock options or stock
appreciation
rights shall continue to be exercisable in accordance with their terms and shares subject to
conditions or
restrictions transferred pursuant to this Plan shall continue to be subject to such conditions
or restrictions.

2. In the case of an employee of a subsidiary company, performance under this Plan, including
the transfer of shares of the Company, may be by the subsidiary. Nothing in this Plan shall
affect the
right of the Company or any subsidiary to terminate the employment of any employee with or
without
cause. None of the participants, either individually or as a group, and no beneficiary or
other person
claiming under or through any participant, shall have any right, title, or interest in any
shares of the
Company purchased or reserved for the purpose of this Plan except as to such shares, if any,
as shall have
been granted, sold or transferred to him or her. Nothing in this Plan shall preclude the
issuance, sale or
transfer of shares of the Company to employees under any other plan or arrangement now or
hereafter in
effect.

3.  Subsidiary  means any company in which greater than fifty percent (50%) of the total
combined voting power of all classes of stock is owned, directly or indirectly, by the
Company. In
addition, the Board may designate for participation in this Plan as a  subsidiary,  except for
the granting
or selling of incentive stock options, those additional companies affiliated with the Company
in which
the Company s direct or indirect stock ownership is less than fifty percent (50%) of the total
combined
voting power of all classes of such company s stock.

ARTICLE L   Consent. 

Every recipient of a stock option, stock appreciation right, or transfer of shares pursuant to
this Plan shall be bound by the terms and provisions of this Plan and of the stock option, stock
appreciation right, or transfer of shares agreement referable thereto, and the acceptance of any
stock option, stock appreciation right, or transfer of shares pursuant to this Plan shall
constitute a binding agreement between the recipient and the Company and its subsidiaries and any
successors in interest to any of them. This Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance
with the laws of the State of Ohio, United States of America.

ARTICLE M   Duration of Plan. 

This Plan will terminate on July 14, 2002 unless a different termination date is fixed by
action of the Board of Directors, but no such termination shall affect the prior rights under this
Plan of the Company (or any subsidiary) or of anyone to whom stock options or stock appreciation
rights were granted or sold prior thereto or to whom shares have been transferred prior to such
termination.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

1. Stock Options Offered for Purchase 

Stock options may be offered for purchase at a price of one dollar ($U.S. 1.00) per option
(the  Purchased Stock Options ). Participants must pay for any Purchased Stock Option within sixty
(60) days after the date of acceptance established by the Committee for such Purchased Stock Option
by delivering cash or a check to the Company or its applicable subsidiary. Each Purchased Stock
Option represents the right to acquire one share of Common Stock upon the exercise of such
Purchased Stock Option. The number of stock options, whether Purchased Stock Options or otherwise,
issued by the Company and outstanding as of January 31, 1997 is 30,884,517. The Purchased Stock
Options are not listed on an exchange. For such Purchased Stock
Options, the Committee, pursuant to
authority granted by Article B, paragraph 3 of the Plan, has waived the conditions and restrictions
of paragraphs 4(a) and (b) of Article G as follows: the Purchased Stock Options will remain
exercisable for up to one (1) month following any termination of employment; provided that if
termination of employment occurs as a result of death, retirement or Special Separation, the stock
option will remain exercisable for its full term until its date of expiration.

There is no guarantee that the price of the Common Stock will exceed the exercise price of
any Purchased Stock Option, in which case such Purchased Stock Option would have no value. 

2. Shares Awarded as a Portion of Remuneration 

Any shares of Common Stock of the Company awarded as a portion of a participant s
remuneration shall be valued at not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the fair market value
of the Company s Common Stock on the date of the award. These shares may be subject to such
conditions or restrictions as the Committee may determine, including a requirement that the
participant remain in the employ of the Company or one of its subsidiaries for a set period of
time, or until retirement. Failure to abide by any applicable restriction will result in
forfeiture of the shares.

3. U.S. Tax Treatment for U.S. Persons 

Incentive Stock Options  

With regard to tax effects which may accrue to the optionee, counsel advises that if
the optionee has continuously been an employee from the time an option has been granted
until at least three months before it is exercised, under existing law no taxable income
results to the optionee from the exercise of an incentive stock option at the time of
exercise. However, the spread at exercise is an  adjustment  item for alternative minimum
tax purposes.

Any gain realized on the sale or other disposition of stock acquired on exercise of an
incentive stock option is considered as long-term capital gain for tax purposes if the
stock has been held more than two years after the date the option was granted and more than
one year after the date of exercise of the option. If the stock is disposed of within one
year after exercise, the lesser of any gain on such disposition or the spread at exercise
(i.e., the excess of the fair market value of the stock on the date of exercise over the
option price) is treated as ordinary income, and any appreciation after the date of
exercise is considered long-term or short-term capital gain to the optionee depending on
the holding period prior to sale. However, the spread at exercise (even if greater than the
gain on the disposition) is treated as ordinary income if the disposition is one on which a
loss, if sustained, is not recognized e.g., a gift, a  wash  sale or a sale to a related
party. The amount of ordinary income recognized by the optionee is treated as a tax
deductible expense to the Company. No other amount relative to an incentive stock option is
a tax deductible expense to the Company.

Nonstatutory Stock Options  

With regard to tax effects which may accrue to the optionee, counsel advises that
under existing tax law gain taxable as ordinary income to the optionee is deemed to be
realized at the date of exercise of the option, the gain on each share being the difference
between the market price on the date of exercise and the option price. This amount is
treated as a tax deductible expense to the Company at the time of the exercise of the
option. Any appreciation in the value of the stock after the date of exercise is considered
a long-term or short-term capital gain to the optionee depending on whether or not the
stock was held for the appropriate holding period prior to sale.

Stock Appreciation Rights  

With regard to tax effects which may accrue to the recipient, counsel advises that
 United States persons,  as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the  I.R.C. ),
must recognize ordinary income as of the date of exercise equal to the amount paid to the
recipient, i.e., the difference between the grant price and the value of the shares on the
date of exercise.

Shares Awarded as a Portion of Remuneration  

With regard to tax effects which may accrue to the recipient, counsel advises that
 United States persons  as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the  I.R.C. ),
must recognize ordinary income in the first taxable year in which the recipient s rights to
the stock are transferable or are not subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture,
whichever is applicable. Recipients who are  United States persons  may also elect to
include the income in their tax returns for the taxable year in which they receive the shares by filing an election to do so with the appropriate office of the Internal Revenue
Service within 30 days of the date the shares are transferred to them.

The amount includable in income is the fair market value of the shares as of the day
the shares are transferable or not subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture, whichever
is applicable; if the recipient has elected to include the income in the year in which the shares are received, the amount of income includable is the fair market value of the shares
at the time of transfer.

For non-United States persons, the time when income is realized, its measurement and
its taxation, will depend on the laws of the particular countries in which the recipients
are residents and/or citizens at the time of transfer or when the shares are first
transferable and not subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture, as the case may be.
 United States persons  who receive shares awarded as a portion of remuneration may also
have tax consequences with respect to the receipt of shares or the expiration of
restrictions or substantial risk of forfeiture on such shares under the laws of the
particular country other than the United States of which such person is a resident or
citizen.

Notwithstanding the above advice received by the Company, it is each individual recipient s
responsibility to check with his or her personal tax adviser as to the tax effects and proper
handling of stock options, stock appreciation rights and Common Stock acquired. The above advice
relates specifically to the U.S. consequences of stock options, stock appreciation rights and
Common Stock acquired, including the U.S. consequences to  United States persons  whether or not
resident in the U.S. In addition to U.S. tax consequences, for all persons who are not U.S.
residents, the time when income, if any, is realized, the measurement of such income and its
taxation will also depend on the laws of the particular country other than the U.S. of which such
persons are resident and/or citizens at the time of grant or sale or the time of exercise, as the
case may be.

The Plan is not subject to the qualification requirements of Section 401(a) of the
I.R.C.

4. Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 

The Plan is not subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974 ( ERISA ), as amended.

5. Incorporation of Certain Documents by Reference 

The following documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(File No. 1-434) pursuant to the 1934 Act are incorporated into this document by reference:

1. 
       
     The Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001; 

2. 
       
     The Company s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
30,
2001; 

3. 
       
     All other documents filed by the Company pursuant to Sections 13(a), 13(c), 14
or 15(d)
of the 1934 Act after the date of this Prospectus and prior to the filing of a
post-effective
amendment which indicates that all securities offered have been sold or which
deregisters all securities then remaining unsold. 

The Company will provide without charge to each participant in the Plan, upon oral or written
request, a copy of any or all of these documents other than exhibits to such documents, unless
such exhibits are specifically incorporated by reference into such documents. In addition, the
Company will provide without charge to such participants a copy of the Company s most recent
annual report to shareholders, proxy statement, and other communications distributed generally to
security holders of the Company. Requests for such copies should be directed to Mr. James C.
Ashely, Manager, Shareholder Services, The Procter   Gamble Company, P.O. Box 5572, Cincinnati,
Ohio 45201, (513) 983-3413.

6. Additional Information 

Additional information about the Plan and its administrators may be obtained from Mr. Terry
L. Overbey, Secretary, The Procter   Gamble Company, One Procter   Gamble Plaza, Cincinnati, Ohio
45202, (513) 983-4463.

</EX-10.6>

<EX-10.10>
 7
 l32996aexv10w10.htm
 EX-10.10

EX-10.10 

EXHIBIT (10-10)

Summary of the Company s Short Term Achievement Reward Program and related 
correspondence and terms and conditions

SHORT TERM ACHIEVEMENT REWARD PROGRAM  

The Short Term Achievement Reward ( STAR ) Program is The Procter   Gamble Company s (the
 Company ) annual bonus program designed to motivate and reward employees for achieving outstanding
short term business results for the Company and its subsidiaries. STAR awards are made pursuant to
authority delegated to the Compensation   Leadership Development Committee (the  C LD Committee )
by the Board of Directors for awarding compensation to the Company s principal officers and for
making awards under the Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  2001
Plan ) and/or the 2004 Gillette Long Term Incentive Plan (the  Gillette Plan ).

I.    ELIGIBILITY  

Employees at Band 3 or above and who worked at least 28 days (four calendar weeks) during the
applicable fiscal year are eligible to participate. Eligible employees who do not work a full
schedule (e.g., leaves of absence, disability, and less-than-full time schedules) in the fiscal
year in which the award is payable may have awards pro-rated.

II.    CALCULATION  

The individual STAR Award is calculated as follows:

( STAR Target ) x ( Business Unit Performance Factor ) x ( Total Company Factor )

The  STAR Target  for each participant is calculated as: 

(Base Salary) x (STAR Target percent) 

Base Salary  at the end of the applicable fiscal year is used to calculate the STAR award. 

Generally, the  STAR Target Percent  is dependent on the individual s position and level (Band)
in the organization. The STAR Target percent for participants at Band 7 or above is set by
the C LD Committee. The STAR Target percent for all other participants is set by the Chairman
of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, with the concurrence of the Global Human Resources
Officer, pursuant to authority delegated to them by the C LD Committee. If an individual s
position and/or level changes during a fiscal year, and that change results in a new STAR
Target Percent, the STAR Target Percent is pro-rated according to the amount of time in each
position/level during the fiscal year.  

The  Business Unit Performance Factor  is based on the fiscal year success for the
appropriate STAR business unit. The STAR business units are determined by the Global Human
Resources Officer. The Business Unit Performance Factors can range from 53% to 167% with the
target at 100%. A smaller committee consisting of at least two of the Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Global Human Resources Officer
and the Chief Operating Officer (the  STAR Committee ), conducts a comprehensive retrospective
assessment of the fiscal year performance of each STAR business unit according to one or more
of the following measures: Operating Total Shareholder Return, Key Competitor Comparison,
After Tax Profit, Operating Cash Flow, Value Share, Volume, Net Outside Sales, Value
Contribution, Organization Head Self Assessment, and Cross Organization Assessment. The STAR
Committee makes a recommendation of an appropriate Business Unit/Corporate Function
Performance Factor to the C LD Committee. There may also be other factors
significantly affecting unit results positively or negatively which can be considered by the
STAR Committee when making its recommendation. No 

member of the STAR Committee makes any
recommendation or determination as to their own STAR award. 

The  Total Company Factor  is based on the total Company s success during the fiscal year and
ranges from 80% to 130%, with a 100% target. The same Total Company Factor is applied to all
STAR award calculations, regardless of business unit. It is determined using the attached
matrix which measures organic sales growth for the fiscal year and diluted earnings per share
( EPS ) growth for the fiscal year. 

While the STAR Committee makes recommendations to the C LD Committee regarding the performance
factor percentages to be applied to all STAR awards (except those for the STAR Committee members),
only the final award amounts for principal officers are approved specifically by the C LD
Committee. The C LD Committee has delegated the approval of STAR awards for other participants to
the Chief Executive Officer. The C LD Committee has discretion to use, increase or decrease the
performance factor percentages recommended by the STAR Committee and/or to choose not to pay STAR
awards during a given year.

Each year the C LD Committee approves a cash pool for STAR awards equal to a percentage of basic
net earnings multiplied by the number of common shares outstanding, and the C LD Committee sets a
limit on the portion of that pool which can be awarded to each of the Named Executives subject to
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Service code. This ensures that any STAR awards paid to
such executives are fully tax deductible by the Company.

III.    TIMING AND FORM  

STAR awards are determined after the close of the fiscal year and are paid on or about September
15. The award form choices and relevant considerations are explained in payment preference
materials generally in the form of  Appendix 1 . Participants receive written notice of
their award detailing the calculation, generally in the form of  Appendix 2 . The grant
letters used for those employees who elect to receive awards in stock options or restricted stock
units are generally in the form of  Appendix 3 .

Generally, STAR awards are paid in cash. However, before the end of the calendar year preceding the
award date, eligible participants can elect to receive their STAR award in forms other than cash.
Alternatives to cash include stock options, local deferral programs (depending on local regulations
in some countries), or restricted stock units and/or deferred compensation (for participants also
in the Business Growth Program). The Company converts cash to other forms of payment (e.g., stock
options, restricted stock units, etc.) using a conversion factor that is reviewed and approved by
the C LD Committee annually. Any STAR award paid in stock options, restricted stock units or other
form of equity shall be awarded pursuant to this program and the terms and conditions of the 2001
Plan, the Gillette Plan or any successor stock plan approved in accordance with applicable listing
standards, as they may be revised from time to time.

IV.    SEPARATION FROM THE COMPANY  

Retirement, Death or Special Separation with a Separation Package :
If a participant worked at least 28 days (4 calendar weeks)
during the fiscal year, the STAR award is pro-rated by dividing
the number of calendar days the participant was an  active
employee  during the fiscal year by 365. 

Voluntary Resignation or Termination for cause:  Separating
employees must have been active employees as of June 30 (the close
of the fiscal year for which the award is payable) to receive an
award. 

Eligible participants who have left the Company will receive a cash payment (equity such as stock
options and RSUs can only be issued to active employees) on the same timing as STAR awards or as
soon thereafter as possible.

V.    CHANGE IN CONTROL  

Notwithstanding the foregoing, if there is a Change in Control in any fiscal year, STAR awards will
be calculated in accordance with Section II above, but each factor will be calculated for the
period from the beginning of the fiscal year in which a Change in Control occurred up to and
including the date of such Change in Control ( CIC Period ).  Change in Control  shall have the
same meaning as defined in the 2001 Plan.

VI.    GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS  

While any STAR award amount received by one individual for any year shall be considered as earned
remuneration in addition to salary paid, it shall be understood that this plan does not give to any
officer or employee any contract rights, express or implied, against any Company for any STAR award
or for compensation in addition to the salary paid to him or her, or any right to question the
action of the Board of Directors or the C LD or STAR Committees.

Each award to the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Vice-Chairs, Group Presidents,
Presidents, Global Function Heads and Senior Vice Presidents and equivalents, made pursuant to this
plan, is subject to the Senior Executive Recoupment Policy adopted by the C LD Committee in
December 2006.

This program document may be amended at any time by the C LD Committee.

Appendix 1: Payment Preference Materials for STAR Awards  

DATE  
 NAME 

Subject:  Preferences for  YEAR  STAR Payments and Deferred Compensation Choices 

Your choices for the awards are:

September  YEAR  STAR Award 

Cash 

Stock Options 

Restricted Stock Units (for BGP participants only)   no forfeiture provision 

Deferred Compensation (for BGP participants only) 

Attached you will find an election form to be returned to  NAME .

Please keep the following in mind as you consider your choices:

It is recommended that you consult legal/tax/financial advisors to determine the
appropriate award form(s) for your personal situation. 

While your selection will be given consideration, it is not binding on the Company
until approved by the Compensation   Leadership Development Committee of the Board of
Directors. 

IF YOU MISS THE  DATE  DEADLINE, YOU WILL RECEIVE THE DEFAULT (CASH).

NAME 

YEAR  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION AWARD FORM PREFERENCES 

YEAR  STAR Award Payable  DATE   YEAR  Preference Selection 

Cash

%

Stock Options

%

Restricted Stock Units

%

(Select  year you want shares  delivered, e.g.,  YEAR , or  one year after retirement) 

Deferred Compensation

%

Total

100%  

You must be an active employee as of the award date to receive any non-cash award 

All elections are irrevocable after  DATE . 

Signature

Date 

Return form to  NAME 

Appendix 2: STAR Award Letter  

DATE  
Fellow P G Leaders:

 I am pleased to announce the average STAR award for  YEAR  is  NUMBER  % of target. STAR awards
are a determined based on your individual Business Unit Performance Factor and a Total Company
Factor. Business Unit Performance Factors are decided by the STAR Committee based on a
retrospective assessment of each unit s performance. The Total Company Factor is calculated based
on P G s organic sales growth and earnings per share.  EXPLANATION OF COMPANY RESULTS and
COMPARISON TO PREVIOUS YEAR 

Actual STAR awards as a percentage of target  HISTORICAL COMPARISON OF RESULTS TO PREVIOUS YEAR(S) 

By remaining choiceful, focused, and disciplined, we can look forward to future success. Well
done! Thanks.

NAME 

Personal   Confidential 
Individual Award Summary  
 NAME 

Your STAR Award is  NUMBER  payable in  FORM 

Number   
       
      x  
       
       Number %  
       
      x  
       
       Number %  
       
      =  
       
      Number  

STAR Target 

Business Unit 

Total 

STAR 

x 
       
     Performance 
       
     x 
       
     Company 
       
     = 
       
     Award 

Factor 

Factor 

STAR Target   

Based on

June 30  YEAR  Base Salary: 
       
      NUMBER  

Band Level(s) during  YEAR : 
       
      NUMBER  

STAR Target Percent: 
       
      NUMBER  

(Adjusted and/or prorated, as appropriate) 

Base x STAR Target Percent: 
       
      NUMBER  

Your STAR Target: 
       
      NUMBER  

Business Unit Performance   

Business Unit

Weight 
       
     Performance Factor 

Business Unit 

NUMBER  

NUMBER  % 

Total Company Factor  

Organic Sales Growth

NUMBER  

Earnings Per Share

NUMBER  

Total Company Factor

NUMBER  % 

Your STAR Award is  NUMBER  % of STAR Target

Appendix 3: Cover letter for STAR Grant    
  in Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights  

TO:  
       
      Short Term Achievement Reward (STAR) Recipients of P G Stock Options and Stock Appreciation
Rights*  

The attached stock option grant letter refers to your STAR award. The grant was determined by
dividing the gross award amount to be paid in stock options (shown on your award summary previously
distributed) by the  DATE  closing stock price of $  NUMBER . The result was multiplied by
 NUMBER  and then rounded up to the next full share. No further action to accept this grant is
required.

You may retain these STAR stock options until their expiration date in  NUMBER  years even if you
leave the Company, as long as you are in good standing. This is true for STAR stock options only
as they represent payment for the award that you have already earned. These options will vest in
 NUMBER  years.

Stock options are granted under the terms and conditions of the 2001 Procter   Gamble Stock and
Incentive Compensation Plan. The updated plan prospectus is available via the  WEBSITE .

Please keep a copy of the grant letter for your records. If you have any questions about the award
granted, please direct them to  NAME . Questions related to the exercise process should be
directed to  NAME .

NAME 

* 
       
     Recipients of stock appreciation rights should see their subsidiary Chief Financial Officer
regarding the procedure for redeeming such rights. 

Grant Letter for STAR Award in Stock Options    
  and Stock Appreciation Rights  

DATE  
 NAME  
Subject:      Non-Statutory Stock Option Series xx-STAR-xx

In recognition of your contributions to the success of the business, the Procter   Gamble Company
( Company ) hereby grants to you an option to purchase shares of the Procter   Gamble Common Stock
as follows:

Grant Value:

NUMBER  

Option Price per Share:

NUMBER  

Number of Shares:

NUMBER  

Date of Grant:

DATE  

Expiration of Option:

DATE  

Option Exercisable:

NUMBER % after  DATE  

This stock option is granted in accordance with and subject to the terms of The Procter   Gamble
2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (including any applicable sub-plan) (the  Plan ), the
Regulations of the Compensation   Leadership Development Committee of the Board of Directors (the
 Committee ), and the Exercise Instructions in place as may be revised from time to time,

You may access, download and/or print the terms, or any portion thereof, of the Plan by activating
this hyperlink  LINK . Nonetheless, if you would prefer to receive a paper copy of The Procter  
Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan, please send a written request via email to
 EMAIL ADDRESS . Please understand that you will continue to receive future Plan materials and
information via electronic mail even though you may have requested a paper copy.

This option is not transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution and is
exercisable during your life only by you. The Compensation   Leadership Development Committee has
waived the provisions of Article G, paragraph 4 in the event of separation from the Company.

Please note that when the issue or transfer of the Common Stock covered by this option may, in the
opinion of the Company, conflict or be inconsistent with any applicable law or regulation of any
governmental agency, the Company reserves the right to refuse to issue or transfer said Common
Stock and that any outstanding stock options may be suspended or terminated if you engage in
actions that are significantly contrary to the best interests of the Company or any of its
subsidiaries.

Under IRS standards of professional practice, certain tax advice must meet requirements as to form
and substance. To assure compliance with these standards, we disclose to you that this
communication is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, for the purpose of
avoiding penalties, or promoting, marketing or recommending to another party any transaction or
matter addressed herein.

You do not need to do anything further to accept this award under the terms of the 2001 Stock Plan.

The Procter   Gamble Company 
 NAME 

Grant Letter for STAR Award in RSUs  

DATE   NAME 

Subject: Award of Restricted Stock Units (STAR)  

 This is to advise you that The Procter   Gamble Company, an Ohio corporation, is awarding you with
Restricted Stock Units, on the dates and in the amounts listed below, pursuant to The Procter  
Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan, and subject to the attached Statement of Terms
and Conditions Form  CODE 

Grant Date:

DATE  

Original Settlement Date:

DATE  

Number of Restricted Stock Units:

NUMBER 

Paragraph 3(a) of Statement of Terms and Conditions Form  CODE  is not waived.

As you will see from the Statement of Terms and Conditions Form  CODE , under certain circumstances
you may agree with The Procter   Gamble Company to delay the settlement of your Restricted Stock
Units beyond the Original Settlement Date. You may want to consult your personal tax advisor
before making a decision about this matter.

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY 
           NAME 

I hereby accept the Award of Restricted Stock Units set forth above in accordance with and
subject to the terms of The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan and
the attached Statement of Terms and Conditions for Restricted Stock Units, with which I am
familiar. I agree that the Award of Restricted Stock Units, The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock
and Incentive Compensation Plan, and the attached Statement of Terms and Conditions for
Restricted Stock Units together constitute an agreement between the Company and me in
accordance with the terms thereof and hereof, and I further agree that any legal action
related to this Award of Restricted Stock Units may be brought in any federal or state court
located in Hamilton County, Ohio, USA, and I hereby accept the jurisdiction of these courts
and consent to service of process from said courts solely for legal actions related to this
Award of Restricted Stock Units. 

I hereby reject the Award of Restricted Stock Units set forth above. 

Date 
       
     Signature 

</EX-10.10>

<EX-10.14>
 8
 l32996aexv10w14.htm
 EX-10.14

EX-10.14 

EXHIBIT (10-14)

Amended Revolving Credit Agreement among Procter   Gamble International S.a.r.1 and a 
syndicate of banks led by Citigroup

EXECUTION VERSION 

AMENDMENT TO $17B 364-DAY REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT 

As of
January 31, 2008

Reference is made to the $17B 364-Day Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of July
27, 2005 (as amended as of July 30, 2006, as further amended as of December 7, 2006, as
further amended as of August 17, 2007 and as may be further amended, supplemented or
otherwise modified prior to the date hereof, the   Credit Agreement  ) among The Procter  
Gamble Company, an Ohio corporation (  P G  ), Procter   Gamble International S.A.R.L., a
 soci t  a responsibility   limit e  organized under the laws of the Grand Duchy of
Luxembourg. Procter   Gamble Holding (HK) Limited, a company organized and existing under
the laws of Hong Kong, Procter   Gamble International Operations S.A., a company
organized and existing under the laws of Switzerland, the Additional Borrowers party
thereto (collectively, the   Borrowers  ), the Lenders party thereto, Citibank, N.A., as
administrative agent for such Lenders (the   Agent  ), JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as
syndication agent, and ABN Amro Bank N.V., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and HSBC Bank
USA, National Association, as co-documentation agents. Capitalized terms not otherwise
defined in this Amendment shall have the same meanings as specified therefor in the
Credit Agreement.

PRELIMINARY STATEMENTS 

The Lenders have agreed to make and have made loans and other extensions of credit
to the Borrowers under the Credit Agreement. The Borrowers have requested and, on the
Amendment Effective Date (as hereinafter defined), the Lenders will have agreed, that
certain provisions of the Credit Agreement be amended and otherwise modified in the
manner provided for herein.

As of the date hereof, (i) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Tranche B
Advances owing to Procter   Gamble Financial Services (  PGFS  ) is $11,829,490,971.68, of
which $9,811,779,061.19 have an Interest Period that ends on January 31, 2008 (the
  First Refinancing Date  ) and of which $2,071,711,910.49 have an Interest Period that
ends on February 5, 2008 (the   Second Refinancing Date  ), (ii) PGFS has an outstanding
Tranche B Commitment of $12,100,000,000 and (iii) no Lender other than PGFS has an
outstanding Tranche B Commitment or Tranche B Advances owing to it. Each of the First
Refinancing Date and the Second Refinancing Date are referred to herein as a
  Refinancing Date  , as the context may require.

NOW THEREFORE,  in consideration of the premises and mutual covenants contained
herein, and for other valuable consideration the receipt of which is hereby
acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

SECTION 1.  Amendment To The Credit Agreement.  On the First Refinancing
Date, so long as the Amendment Effective Date has occurred, up to $9,811,779,061.19 of
the outstanding Tranche B Advances shall be refinanced into and shall constitute
obligations solely of one or more of the Borrowers under an agreement (the
  Intercompany Loan Agreement  ) entered into or concurrently to be entered into
solely by and among such Borrowers and PGFS and/or any of its affiliates. On the Second
Refinancing Date, so long as the Amendment Effective Date has occurred, all of the
Tranche B Advances that remain outstanding on such date shall be refinanced into and
shall constitute obligations solely under the Intercompany Loan Agreement. On each
Refinancing Date, after giving effect to the refinancing consummated on such date, the
parties acknowledge and agree that (i) the Tranche B Advances so refinanced on such date
shall no longer be governed by the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) no
Lender shall have any interest in any Tranche B Advances so refinanced on such date
(except as otherwise provided in  Section 2  below) and (iii) the Agent shall have
no further duties or obligations to PGFS under or in respect of any of the Tranche B
Advances so refinanced on such date. It

is understood and agreed that, on or prior to the Second Refinancing Date, P G may (and intends to)
deliver a notice pursuant to  Section 2.01(c)  of the Credit Agreement on or prior to the
Second Refinancing Date that reallocates all or a portion of the Tranche B Commitments (which shall
then be unused) to additional Tranche A Commitments.

SECTION 2.  Conditions Precedent to the Effectiveness of this Amendment.  This Amendment
shall become effective as of the date first above written (the   Amendment Effective Date )
 when (i) P G, the Required Lenders and the Agent shall have executed this Amendment and (ii)
the Initial Borrower, or P G on its behalf, shall have notified the Agent that the Intercompany
Loan Agreement has become effective.

SECTION 3.  Reference To And Effect On The Loan Documents.  On and after the Amendment
Effective Date, each reference in the Credit Agreement to  this Agreement ,  hereunder ,  hereof 
or words of like import referring to the Credit Agreement, and each reference in the other Loan
Documents to  the Credit Agreement ,  thereunder ,  thereof  or words of like import referring to
the Credit Agreement, shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement, as amended hereby.
Except as amended herein, all of the provisions of the Credit Agreement and the other Loan
Documents are and shall remain in full force and effect in accordance with the terms thereof and
are hereby in all respects ratified and confirmed.

SECTION 6.  Execution in Counterparts.  This Amendment may be executed by one or more of
the parties hereto in any number of separate counterparts and all of said counterparts taken
together shall be deemed to constitute one and the same instrument. Delivery of an executed
signature page of this Amendment by facsimile transmission shall be effective as delivery of a
manually executed counterpart hereof. A set of the copies of this Amendment signed by all the
parties shall be lodged with P G and the Agent.

SECTION
7.  GOVERNING LAW.  THIS AMENDMENT AND THE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES
HERETO SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE
STATE OF NEW YORK.

signature pages follow   

2 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed and
delivered by their respective duly authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY, as a  Borrower 

By   

Name:   

Title:   

CITIBANK, N.A., as Agent and Lender 

By   

Name:   

Title:   

ABN AMRO BANK N.V., as Lender 

By   

Name:   

Title:   

By   

Name:   

Title:   

DEUTSCHE BANK AG, NEW YORK BRANCH, as  Lender   

By   

Name:   

Title:   

By   

Name:   

Title:   

HSBC BANK USA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Lender 

By   

Name:   

Title:   

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Lender   

By   

Name:   

Title:   

MERRILL LYNCH CAPITAL CORP., as Lender   

By   

Name:   

Title:   

MERRILL LYNCH BANK USA, as Lender 

By   

Name:   

Title:   

GOLDMAN SACHS CREDIT PARTNERS L.P., as  Lender 

By   

Name:   

Title:   

MORGAN STANLEY SENIOR FUNDING, INC.,
as Lender   

By   

Name:   

Title:   

THE HONG KONG SHANGHAI BANKING  CORPORATION LIMITED, as an Exiting Lender 

By   

Name:   

Title:   

EXECUTION COPY

AMENDMENT TO REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT 

As of August 17, 2007

Reference is made to the Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of July 27, 2005 (as amended as
of July 30, 2006 and as further amended as of December 7, 2006 and as may be further amended,
supplemented or otherwise modified prior to the date hereof, the   Credit Agreement  ) among
Procter   Gamble International S.A.R.L., a  soci t    responsabilit  limit e  organized under the
laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg (the   Initial Borrower  ), the Additional Borrowers
party thereto, the Lenders party thereto, Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent for such Lenders
(the   Agent  ), Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as sole lead arranger and sole book runner,
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication agent, and ABN Amro Bank N.V. and Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc., as co-documentation agents. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this
Amendment shall have the same meanings as specified therefor in the Credit Agreement.

PRELIMINARY STATEMENTS 

The Lenders have agreed to make and have made loans and other extensions of credit to the
Borrowers under the Credit Agreement. The Initial Borrower has requested and, upon this Amendment
becoming effective, the Lenders will have agreed, that certain provisions of the Credit Agreement
be amended and otherwise modified in the manner provided for herein.

NOW THEREFORE,  in consideration of the premises and mutual covenants contained herein, and for
other valuable consideration the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby
agree as follows:

SECTION 1.  Amendment To The Credit Agreement . As of the Amendment Effective Date
(as hereinafter defined), the Credit Agreement shall be amended and restated in its entirety in the
form of Exhibit A hereto, in part, and Exhibit B hereto, in part.

SECTION 2.  Conditions Precedent . This Amendment shall become effective as of the
date first above written (the   Amendment Effective Date  ) when (i) the Borrowers, Lenders
and the Agent shall have executed this Amendment with respect to Exhibit A, (ii) the Borrowers, the
Required Lenders and the Agent have executed this Amendment with respect to Exhibit B, and (iii)
Agent shall have received a certificate from P G certifying that the resolutions of P G, the
Initial Borrower and each Additional Borrower authorizing the execution, delivery and performance
of the Credit Agreement, copies of which have been previously delivered to Agent, remain in full
force and effect without any modification or amendment.

SECTION 3.  Assignment and Acceptance; Exiting Lenders . Each of the Lenders agrees
that such Lender has effected all required purchases and sales of its Commitments and outstanding
Advances owing to it under the Credit Agreement such that, as of the Amendment Effective Date, (i)
such Lender s Commitments and outstanding Advances owing to it under the agreement set forth on
Exhibit A hereto shall be as set forth on Schedule II to such agreement and (ii) such Lender s
Commitments and outstanding Advances owing to it under the agreement set forth on Exhibit B hereto
shall be as set forth on Schedule II to such agreement. Each Borrower hereby ratifies and confirms
that the Commitments and outstanding Advances owing to each of the Lenders under each such
agreement as of the Amendment Effective Date are as set forth on Schedule II to each respective
agreement. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Amendment or in Exhibit A or Exhibit B,
each Lender that is a party to the Credit Agreement listed on the signature pages hereof as an
 Exiting Lender  (each, an  Exiting Lender ) shall cease to be a party to the Credit Agreement on
the Amendment Effective Date and shall be paid on the

Amendment Effective Date (A) the aggregate principal amount of, and any interest accrued and
unpaid to the Amendment Effective Date on the outstanding Advances, if any, of such Exiting Lender
 plus  (B) any accrued but unpaid facility fees owing to such Exiting Lender as of the Amendment
Effective Date;  plus  (C) all additional costs, reimbursements, expense reimbursements and
indemnities payable to such Exiting Lender, and all other accrued and unpaid amounts owing to such
Exiting Lender, under the Credit Agreement, as of the Amendment Effective Date.

SECTION 4.  Reference To And Effect On The Loan Documents . On and after the Amendment
Effective Date, each reference in the Credit Agreement to  this Agreement ,  hereunder ,  hereof 
or words of like import referring to the Credit Agreement, and each reference in the other Loan
Documents to  the Credit Agreement ,  thereunder ,  thereof  or words of like import referring to
the Credit Agreement, shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement, as amended and
otherwise modified hereby. Except as amended or waived herein, all of the provisions of the Credit
Agreement and the other Loan Documents are and shall remain in full force and effect in accordance
with the terms thereof and are hereby in all respects ratified and confirmed.

SECTION 5.  Execution in Counterparts . This Amendment may be executed by one or more
of the parties hereto in any number of separate counterparts and all of said counterparts taken
together shall be deemed to constitute one and the same instrument. Delivery of an executed
signature page of this Amendment by facsimile transmission shall be effective as delivery of a
manually executed counterpart hereof. A set of the copies of this Amendment signed by all the
parties shall be lodged with the Initial Borrower and the Administrative Agent.

SECTION 6.  Confirmation of Guaranty . By execution below, P G hereby consents to this
Amendment and hereby confirms and agrees that (a) notwithstanding the effectiveness of this
Amendment, the P G Guaranty is, and shall continue to be, in full force and effect and is hereby
ratified and confirmed in all respects, except that, on and after the effectiveness of this
Amendment, each reference in the Guaranty to the  Credit Agreement ,  thereunder ,  thereof  or
words of like import shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement, as amended hereby.

SECTION 7.  GOVERNING LAW . THIS AMENDMENT AND THE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE
PARTIES HERETO SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF
THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

signature pages follow   

2 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed and
delivered by their respective duly authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.

PROCTER   GAMBLE INTERNATIONAL S.A.R.L., as the
Initial Borrower 

By 

Name:   

Title:   

PROCTER   GAMBLE HOLDING (HK) LIMITED, as a Borrower

By 

Name:   

Title:   

PROCTER   GAMBLE INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS S.A., as a
Borrower 

By 

Name:   

Title:   

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY, as a Guarantor 

By 

Name:   

Title:   

CITIBANK, N.A., as Agent and Lender 

By 

Name:   

Title:   

ABN AMRO BANK N.V., as Lender 

By 

Name:   

Title:   

DEUTSCHE BANK AG, NEW YORK BRANCH, as Lender 

By 

Name:   

Title:   

HSBC BANK USA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Lender 

By 

Name:   

Title:   

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Lender 

By 

Name:   

Title:   

MERRILL LYNCH CAPITAL CORP., as Lender 

By 

Name:   

Title:   

MERRILL LYNCH BANK USA, as Lender 

By 

Name:   

Title:   

MORGAN STANLEY BANK, as Lender 

By 

Name:   

Title:   

MORGAN STANLEY SENIOR FUNDING, INC., as Lender 

By 

Name:   

Title:   

GOLDMAN SACHS CREDIT PARTNERS L.P., as Lender 

By 

Name:   

Title:   

THE HONG KONG SHANGHAI BANKING
CORPORATION LIMITED, as an Exiting Lender 

By 

Name:   

Title:   

EXECUTION COPY

U.S. $17,000,000,000

364-DAY REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT 

Dated as
of June 27, 2005, as amended as of July 30, 2006, as further amended as of December 7, 2006  
and as further amended as of August 17, 2007

among

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY, 
PROCTER   GAMBLE INTERNATIONAL S.A.R.L., 
PROCTER   GAMBLE HOLDING (HK) LIMITED, 
PROCTER   GAMBLE INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS S.A., and 
THE ADDITIONAL BORROWERS (AS DEFINED HEREIN)  
as Borrowers

and

THE LENDERS PARTY HERETO  
as Lenders

and

CITIBANK, N.A.  
as Sole Lead Arranger and Administrative Agent

and

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.  
as Syndication Agent

and

ABN AMRO BANK N.V., DEUTSCHE BANK AG, NEW YORK BRANCH and 
HSBC BANK USA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION  
as Co-Documentation Agents

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

-i- 

TABLE
OF CONTENTS  
(Continued)

-ii- 

Schedules

Schedule I

List of Applicable Lending Offices 

Schedule II

Commitments 

Exhibits

Exhibit A-1

Form of Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing 

Exhibit A-2

Form of Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing 

Exhibit B

Form of Assignment and Acceptance 

Exhibit C-1

Form of Opinion of Luxembourg Counsel for the Initial Borrower 

Exhibit C-2

Form of Opinion of In-house Counsel for the Initial Borrower 

Exhibit C-3

Form of Opinion of Special Counsel for the Initial Borrower 

Exhibit D

Form of Borrower Accession Agreement 

Exhibit E

Form of Section 2.14 Certificate 

Exhibit F-1

Form of Tranche A Note 

Exhibit F-2

Form of Tranche B Note 

Exhibit F-3

Form of Competitive Bid Note 

Exhibit G

Form of Notice of Extension of Termination Date 

-iii- 

$17,000,000,000 
364-DAY REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT

Dated as of July 27, 2005,

as amended as of July 30, 2006, as further amended as of December 7, 2006 and as further amended as of 
August 17, 2007

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY, an Ohio corporation (  P G  ), PROCTER   GAMBLE
INTERNATIONAL S.A.R.L., a  soci t    responsabilit  limit e  organized under the laws of the Grand
Duchy of Luxembourg (  PGI  ), PROCTER   GAMBLE HOLDING (HK) LIMITED, a company organized and
existing under the laws of Hong Kong (  P G HK  ), PROCTER   GAMBLE INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS
S.A., a company organized and existing under the laws of Switzerland (  PGIO   and, together
with P G, PGI, P G HK and the Additional Borrowers (as hereinafter defined), collectively, the
  Borrowers  ), the LENDERS PARTY HERETO, CITIBANK, N.A., as sole lead arranger and
administrative agent for such Lenders (together with any successor thereto appointed pursuant to
Article VII, the   Agent  ), JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as syndication agent and ABN AMRO
BANK N.V., DEUTSCHE BANK AG, NEW YORK BRANCH and HSBC BANK USA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION., as
co-documentation agents, agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

DEFINITIONS AND ACCOUNTING TERMS

SECTION 1.01  Certain Defined Terms .

As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings (such
meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined):

Act   has the meaning specified in Section 8.16.

Additional Borrower   has the meaning specified in Section 8.10(a).

Advance   means a Tranche A Advance, a Tranche B Advance or a Competitive Bid Advance
made by a Lender to a Borrower as part of a Borrowing and refers to a Base Rate Advance or a
Eurocurrency Rate Advance (each of which shall be a   Type   of Advance).

Affiliate   means, as to any Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly,
controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person or is a director or officer
of such Person. For purposes of this definition, the term  control  (including the terms
 controlling ,  controlled by  and  under common control with ) of a Person means the possession,
direct or indirect, of the power to vote 10% or more of the Voting Equity of such Person.

Agent s Account   means (a) in the case of Advances denominated in Dollars, the
account of the Agent maintained at Citibank, N.A., at its office at Two Penns Way, New Castle,
Delaware 19720, Account No. 36852248, Attention: Bank Loan Syndications, (b) in the case of
Advances denominated in any Optional Currency, the account of the Sub-Agent designated in writing
from time to time by the Agent to the Borrowers and the Lenders for such purpose, and (c) in any
such case, such other account of the Agent as is designated in writing from time to time by the
Agent to each of the Borrowers and the Lenders for such purpose.

Agreement   means this 364-Day Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of August 17,
2007, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.

Amendment Effective Date   means the date on which the condition precedent to the
effectiveness of the amendment to this Agreement, dated as of December 7, 2006, has been satisfied.

Applicable Lending Office   means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender s Domestic
Lending Office in the case of a Base Rate Advance and such Lender s Eurocurrency Lending Office in
the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance and, in the case of a Competitive Bid Advance, the office
of such Lender or any of its Affiliates notified by such Lender to the Agent as its Applicable
Lending Office with respect to such Competitive Bid Advance. It is acknowledged and agreed that
any Lender may have one or more Applicable Lending Offices with respect to Advances of any Type
made or to be made to any Borrower and one or more other Applicable Lending Offices with respect to
Advances of such Type made or to be made to any other Borrower.

Applicable Margin   means, as of any date, (a) for Base Rate Advances, 0.000% per
annum and (b) for Eurocurrency Rate Advances, 0.070% per annum.

Assignment and Acceptance   means an assignment and acceptance entered into by a
Lender and any Person and approved by P G and the Agent, in substantially the form of  Exhibit
B  hereto or in such other form as agreed to by P G, the Agent and the applicable Lender
assignee.

Assuming Extending Lender   has the meaning specified in Section 2.20(c).

Base Rate   means a fluctuating interest rate per annum in effect from time to time,
which rate per annum shall at all times be equal to the higher of:

(a) the rate of interest announced publicly by Citibank, N.A. in New York, New York,
from time to time, as Citibank, N.A. s base rate; and

(b) 0.50% per annum above the Federal Funds Rate.

Base Rate Advance   means a Revolving Credit Advance denominated in Dollars that bears
interest as provided in Section 2.07(a)(i).

beneficial owner   has the meaning specified in Section 2.14(c)(v).

Borrowers   has the meaning specified in the recital of parties to this Agreement.

Borrowing   means a Revolving Credit Borrowing or a Competitive Bid Borrowing.

Borrower Accession Agreement   has the meaning specified in Section 8.10(a).

Business Day   means a day of the year on which banks are not required or authorized
by law to close in New York City and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any Eurocurrency
Rate Advances, on which dealings are carried on in the London interbank market (or, in the case of
an Advance denominated in (i) Euros, on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross
Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System is open or (ii) a currency other than Dollars and
Euros, on which dealings in deposits in the relevant currency are conducted by and between banks in
the London or other applicable offshore interbank markets for such currency).

-2- 

Change in Law   has the meaning specified in Section 2.14(a).

Closing Date   has the meaning specified in Section 3.01.

Commitment   means, with respect to each Lender, the Tranche A Commitment or the
Tranche B Commitment of such Lender, as the context may require.

Communications   has the meaning specified in Section 8.02(b).

Competitive Bid Advance   means an advance by a Lender to any Borrower as part of a
Competitive Bid Borrowing and refers to a Fixed Rate Advance or a Eurocurrency Rate Advance.

Competitive Bid Borrowing   means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Competitive
Bid Advances from each of the Lenders whose offer to make one or more Competitive Bid Advances as
part of such Borrowing has been accepted under the competitive bidding procedure described in
Section 2.03.

Competitive Bid Note   has the meaning specified in Section 2.03(f).

Competitive Bid Reduction   means, at any time, the deemed use of each Lender s
Tranche A Commitment in an amount equal to such Lender s Pro Rata Share of all outstanding
Competitive Bid Advances at such time.

Confidential Information   means information that P G or any of the other Borrowers
furnishes to the Agent or any Lender on a confidential basis or that a reasonable Person would
conclude is confidential or proprietary, but does not include any such information that is or
becomes generally available to the public or that is or becomes available to the Agent or such
Lender from a source other than P G, any of the other Borrowers or any of their Affiliates or any
of their respective advisors.

Consenting Lender   has the meaning specified in Section 2.20(b).

Consolidated   refers to the consolidation of accounts in accordance with GAAP.

Consolidated Assets   means, with respect to any Person, all assets of such Person and
its Subsidiaries that, in accordance with GAAP, would be classified as assets on the balance sheet
of such Person determined on a Consolidated basis.

Consolidated EBITDA   means, for any Person for any period, net income (or net loss)
plus the sum of (a) interest expense, (b) income tax expense, (c) depreciation expense and (d)
amortization expense, in each case determined for such Person and its Consolidated Subsidiaries in
accordance with GAAP for such period.

Convert  ,   Conversion   and   Converted   each refers to a conversion of
Revolving Credit Advances under a particular Facility and of one Type into Revolving Credit
Advances under such particular Facility of the other Type pursuant to Section 2.08 or 2.09.

Covered Jurisdiction   means, with respect to any Borrower, the United States,
Switzerland and Ireland.

Debt   of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all indebtedness of such Person
for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person for the deferred purchase price of property
or services (other than trade payables incurred in the ordinary course of such Person s business),
(c) all obligations of

-3- 

such Person evidenced by notes, bonds, debentures or other similar instruments, (d) all
obligations of such Person as lessee under leases that have been or should be, in accordance with
GAAP, recorded as capital leases, (e) all non-contingent obligations to reimburse any Person in
respect of any amounts paid under acceptances, letters of credit or similar extensions of credit,
(f) all Debt of others referred to in clauses (a) through (e) above or clause (g) below guaranteed
directly or indirectly in any manner by such Person, or in effect guaranteed directly or indirectly
by such Person through an agreement (i) to pay or purchase such Debt or to advance or supply funds
for the payment or purchase of such Debt, (ii) to purchase, sell or lease (as lessee or lessor)
property, or to purchase or sell services, primarily for the purpose of enabling the debtor to make
payment of such Debt or to assure the holder of such Debt against loss, (iii) to supply funds to or
in any other manner invest in the debtor (including any agreement to pay for property or services
irrespective of whether such property is received or such services are rendered) or (iv) otherwise
to assure a creditor against loss, and (g) all Debt referred to in clauses (a) through (f) above
secured by (or for which the holder of such Debt has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to
be secured by) any Mortgage on property (including, without limitation, accounts and contract
rights) owned by such Person, even though such Person has not assumed or become liable for the
payment of such Debt.

Default   means any Event of Default or any event that would constitute an Event of
Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both.

Defaulting Lender   means any Lender that (a) has failed to fund any portion of the
Advances required to be funded by it hereunder within three Business Days of the date required to
be funded by it hereunder and such failure is continuing, or (b) has otherwise failed to pay over
to the Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within three
Business Days of the date when due, and such failure is continuing, unless the subject of a good
faith dispute.

Dollars   and the   $   sign each means lawful currency of the United States of
America.

Domestic Lending Office   means, with respect to any Lender, the office, offices,
Affiliate or Affiliates of such Lender specified as its  Domestic Lending Office  opposite its name
on Schedule I hereto or in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender, or
such other office or Affiliate of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to each
of the Borrowers and the Agent. It is acknowledged and agreed that any Lender may specify one or
more Domestic Lending Offices with respect to Advances made or to be made to any Borrower and one
or more other Domestic Lending Offices with respect to Advances made or to be made to any other
Borrower;  provided  that no Lender may specify more than one Domestic Lending Office unless it also
specifies a  Principal Domestic Lending Office , in which case such  Principal Domestic Lending
Office  shall be deemed to be its  Domestic Lending Office  for purposes of the definition herein
of  Eurocurrency Lending Office  and Section 8.02.

Email   has the meaning specified in Section 8.02(a).

EMU   means Economic and Monetary Union as contemplated in the Treaty of Rome.

EMU Legislation   means legislative measures of the European Union for the
introduction of, changeover to or operation of the Euro in one or more member states, being in part
legislative measures to implement EMU.

Equivalent   means, at any time, (a) with respect to any amount denominated in
Dollars, the equivalent amount thereof in the applicable Optional Currency determined by using the
quoted spot rate at which the Sub-Agent s principal office in London offers to exchange Dollars for
such Optional Currency in London prior to 4:00 P.M. (London time) (unless otherwise indicated by
the terms of this

-4- 

Agreement) on such date as is required pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and (b) with
respect to any amount denominated in any Optional Currency, the equivalent amount thereof in
Dollars determined by using the quoted spot rate at which the Sub-Agent s principal office in
London offers to exchange such Optional Currency for Dollars in London prior to 4:00 P.M. (London
time) (unless otherwise indicated by the terms of this Agreement) on such date as is required
pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.

ERISA   means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from
time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.

Euro   and   (euro)   means the lawful currency of the European Union as
constituted by the Treaty of Rome which established the European Community.

Eurocurrency Lending Office   means, with respect to any Lender, the office, offices,
Affiliate or Affiliates of such Lender specified as its  Eurocurrency Lending Office  opposite its
name on Schedule I hereto or in Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender (or,
if no such office is specified, its Domestic Lending Office), or such other office, offices,
Affiliate or Affiliates of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to each of the
Borrowers and the Agent. It is acknowledged and agreed that any Lender may specify one or more
Eurocurrency Lending Offices with respect to Advances made or to be made to any Borrower and one or
more other Eurocurrency Lending Offices with respect to Advances made or to be made to any other
Borrower.

Eurocurrency Rate   means, for any Interest Period for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance
comprising part of the same Borrowing, the rate per annum (rounded upward to the nearest whole
multiple of 1/1000 of 1% per annum) appearing on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page (or on any successor
or substitute page) as the London interbank offered rate for deposits in the applicable currency at
approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the first day of
such Interest Period, for a term comparable to such Interest Period or, if for any reason such rate
is not available, the average (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/1000 of 1% per
annum, if such average is not such a multiple) of the rate per annum at which deposits in the
applicable currency is offered by the principal office of each of the Reference Banks in London,
England to prime banks in the London interbank market at 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the Business
Day immediately preceding the first day of such Interest Period in an amount substantially equal to
such Reference Bank s Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of such Borrowing to be outstanding
during such Interest Period and for a period equal to such Interest Period. If the Reuters Screen
LIBOR01 Page (or on any successor or substitute page) is unavailable, the Eurocurrency Rate for any
Interest Period for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing shall be
determined by the Agent on the basis of applicable rates furnished to and received by the Agent
from the Reference Banks on the Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Interest
Period, subject, however, to the provisions of Section 2.08.

Eurocurrency Rate Advance   means a Revolving Credit Advance denominated in any
Optional Currency that bears interest as provided in Section 2.07(a)(ii) or a Competitive Bid
Advance denominated in any Optional Currency that bears interest by reference to the Eurocurrency
Rate.

Events of Default   has the meaning specified in Section 6.01.

Excluded Taxes   means, (a) with respect to any Lender or the Agent, Taxes imposed on
such Person s overall net income (and franchise Taxes imposed on such Person in lieu of net income
Taxes) as a result of any present or former connection between such Person and the relevant taxing
authority, in each case, whether in effect as of the date hereof or subsequently imposed as a
result of a Change in Law, and (b) with respect to payments made by any Borrower organized in a
Covered Jurisdiction to any

-5- 

Person, any Taxes not imposed as a direct result of a Change in Law occurring after the date
on which such Person became a Lender or the Agent.

Existing Credit Agreement   means the Bridge Credit Agreement dated as of January 28,
2005 between the Initial Borrower and Merrill Lynch Capital Corporation, as amended, supplemented
and otherwise modified from time to time.

Facility   means the Tranche A Facility or the Tranche B Facility, as the context may
require.

Facility Fee   has the meaning specified in Section 2.04(a).

Federal Funds Rate   means, for any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum
equal for each day during such period to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal
funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as
published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the next preceding Business Day)
by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a
Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by the Agent
from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.

Five Year Revolving Credit Agreement   means the Five Year Revolving Credit Agreement,
dated as of June 27, 2005 (as amended as of July 20, 2006, as further amended as of December 7,
2006, and further amended as of August 17, 2007, and as may be further amended, supplemented or
otherwise modified from time to time, the), among the Borrower, the other  Borrowers  referred to
therein, Citibank, N.A, as the Agent, the Lenders, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as sole lead
arranger and sole book runner, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication agent, and Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc., as documentation agent.

Fixed Rate Advances   means a Competitive Bid Advance denominated in any Optional
Currency that bears interest as provided in Section 2.03(a)(i).

GAAP   has the meaning specified in Section 1.03.

Indemnified Costs   has the meaning specified in Section 7.05.

Initial Borrower   means PGI, in its capacity as the Initial Borrower under the
Existing Credit Agreement.

Initial Lender   means each financial institution identified as an Initial Lender on
the signature pages to this Agreement.

Interest Payment Date   means (a) with respect to any Base Rate Advance, (i) the last
day of each March, June, September and December during the period in which such Base Rate Advance
is outstanding and (ii) the date such Base Rate Advance is Converted or paid in full, and (b) with
respect to any Eurocurrency Rate Advance, (i) the last day of each Interest Period applicable to
such Eurocurrency Rate Advance and, if such Interest Period has a duration of more than three
months, each day that occurs during such Interest Period every three months from the first day of
such Interest Period and (ii) the date such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is Converted or paid in full.

Interest Period   means, for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of the
same Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Eurocurrency Rate Advance or the date of
the Conversion of any Base Rate Advance into such Eurocurrency Rate Advance and ending on the last
day

-6- 

of the period selected by the Borrower requesting a Borrowing pursuant to the provisions below
and, thereafter, with respect to Eurocurrency Rate Advances, each subsequent period commencing on
the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period and ending on the last day of the period
selected by such Borrower pursuant to the provisions below. The duration of each such Interest
Period shall be one week or one, two, three or six, or to the extent generally available, nine or
twelve months, as such Borrower may, upon notice received by the Agent not later than 9:00 A.M.
(New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Interest
Period, select;  provided ,  however , that:

(a) no Borrower may select any Interest Period that ends after the Termination Date or,
if the Advances have been converted to a term loan pursuant to Section 2.20 prior to such
selection, that ends after the Maturity Date;

(b) Interest Periods commencing on the same date for Eurocurrency Rate Advances
comprising part of the same Borrowing shall be of the same duration;

(c) whenever the last day of any Interest Period would otherwise occur on a day other
than a Business Day, the last day of such Interest Period shall be extended to occur on the
next succeeding Business Day,  provided ,  however , that, if such extension would cause the
last day of such Interest Period to occur in the next following calendar month, the last day
of such Interest Period shall occur on the next preceding Business Day; and

(d) whenever the first day of any Interest Period occurs on a day of an initial
calendar month for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month
that succeeds such initial calendar month by the number of months equal to the number of
months in such Interest Period, such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of
such succeeding calendar month.

Internal Revenue Code   means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time
to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.

Lenders   means each Initial Lender and each Person that shall become a party hereto
pursuant to Section 8.07 and, as to any Lender, the term  Lender  includes any of its Affiliates
designated as such by such Lender located in ( e.g. , being fiscally resident in or organized in or
having a branch, office, permanent establishment or other place of business in) a Covered
Jurisdiction.

Loan Documents   means, collectively, this Agreement, each Note, if any, and each
Borrower Accession Agreement.

Material Adverse Change   means any material adverse change in the financial condition
or results of operations of P G and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.

Material Adverse Effect   means a material adverse effect on (a) the financial
condition or results of operations of P G and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, (b) the rights
and remedies of the Agent or the Lenders under any Loan Document or (c) the ability of the
Borrowers to perform their obligations under the Loan Documents.

Material Subsidiary   means, at any time, any Subsidiary of P G having (a) assets with
a value of not less than 5% of the total value of the assets of P G and its Subsidiaries, taken as
a whole, or (b) Consolidated EBITDA of not less than 5% of the aggregate Consolidated EBITDA of P G
and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in each case as of the end of or for the most recently
completed fiscal quarter of P G.

-7- 

Maturity Date   means the earlier of (a) the first or second anniversary of the
Scheduled Termination Date, as determined by P G in accordance with Section 2.20 and (b) the date
of termination in whole of the aggregate Commitments pursuant to Section 2.05 or 6.02.

Mortgage   means any lien or security interest or other charge or encumbrance having
the effect of a lien or security interest.

Non-Consenting Lender   has the meaning specified in Section 2.20(b).

Non-Excluded Taxes   has the meaning specified in Section 2.14(a).

Note   means a Tranche A Note, a Tranche B Note or a Competitive Bid Note, as context
may require.

Notice   has the meaning specified in Section 8.02(c).

Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing   has the meaning specified in Section 2.03(a)(i).

Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing   has the meaning specified in Section 2.02(a).

Optional Currency   means Dollars, Sterling, Yen or Euro, as the context may require.

P G Guaranty   means the Guaranty dated as of August 23, 2006 made by P G in favor of
the Agent and the Lenders.

Permitted Mortgages   means the following types of Mortgages:

(a) Mortgages for taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies to the extent
not otherwise required to be paid under Section 5.01(b);

(b) Mortgages imposed by law, including, without limitation, materialmen s, mechanics ,
carriers , workmen s, storage and repairmen s Mortgages and other similar Mortgages arising
in the ordinary course of business;

(c) pledges or deposits to secure obligations under workers  compensation laws,
unemployment insurance or other similar social security legislation (including, without
limitation, in respect of employee benefit plans subject to ERISA) or to secure public or
statutory obligations;

(d) Mortgages securing the performance of, or payment in respect of, tenders, statutory
obligations, progress or advance payments, contract bids, government or utility obligations,
payment, performance, surety and return-of-money bonds and other similar obligations
incurred in the ordinary course of business and other obligations of a similar nature,
whether pursuant to statutory requirements, common law or consensual arrangements;

(e) any interest or title of a lessor or sublessor or a licensor and any restriction or
encumbrance to which the interest or title of such lessor, sublessor or licensor may be
subject;

(f) Mortgages arising out of judgments or awards that do not constitute an Event of
Default under Section 6.01(e);

-8- 

(g) rights of way, easements, restrictions (including zoning restrictions), covenants,
consents, reservations, encroachments, variations, mineral reservations and rights, leases,
licenses and other similar restrictions, charges, encumbrances (whether or not recorded),
prior rights of other Persons, and similar obligations with respect to real property arising
by operation of law or contained in similar instruments;

(h) Mortgages arising from the rights of lessors under leases (including financing
statements regarding property subject to such leases or subleases);

(i) rights of consignors of goods, whether or not perfected by the filing of a
financing statement under the Uniform Commercial Code of any jurisdiction (or similar
filings and recordings under equivalent provisions of applicable law), including, without
limitation, goods which are the subject of tolling agreements or manufacturing and servicing
agreements;

(j) leases, licenses, subleases or sublicenses (including the provision of software
under an open source license) which would not have a Material Adverse Effect;

(k) Liens in favor of customs and revenue authorities to secure payment of customs
duties in connection with the importation of goods in the ordinary course of business;

(l) Liens (i) of a collection bank arising under Section 4-210 of the Uniform
Commercial Code on the items in the course of collection, (ii) attaching to commodity
trading accounts or other commodities brokerage accounts and (iii) in favor of a banking or
other financial institution arising as a matter of law encumbering deposits or other funds
maintained with a financial institution (including the right of set off);

(m) Liens consisting of an agreement or arrangement to sell, lease, transfer or
otherwise convey or dispose of property of P G and/or one or more of its Subsidiaries; and

(n) Liens arising as part of the securitization (or other similar arrangements) or
other off-balance sheet financing of property of P G and/or one or more of its Subsidiaries.

Person   means an individual, partnership, corporation (including a business trust),
joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, limited liability company or
other entity, or a government or any political subdivision or agency thereof.

Platform   has the meaning specified in Section 8.02(b).

Primary Currency   has the meaning specified in Section 8.09(b).

Principal Manufacturing Property   means any facility (together with the land on which
it is erected and fixtures comprising a part thereof) used primarily for manufacturing or
processing, wherever located, owned or leased by any Borrower or any Subsidiary of any Borrower and
having a gross book value in excess of $750,000,000, other than any such facility or portion
thereof (a) which is a pollution control or other facility financed by obligations issued by (i) a
state or local governmental unit pursuant to Section 103(b)(4)(E), 103(b)(4)(F) or 103(b)(6) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1954, or any successor provision thereof, or (ii) the equivalent of the
financing referred to in subclause (a)(i) above in any jurisdiction other than the United States,
or (b) which, in the opinion of the Board of Directors of P G or any Borrower, is not of material
importance to the total business conducted by P G and its Subsidiaries, considered as a whole.

-9- 

Process Agent   has the meaning specified in Section 8.13(a).

Pro Rata Share   of any amount means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the
product of (a) such amount multiplied by (b) a fraction the numerator of which is the amount of
such Lender s Commitment(s) under the applicable Facility or Facilities at such time (or, if the
Commitments shall have been terminated pursuant to Section 2.05 or 6.02 at or prior to such time,
such Lender s Commitment(s) under the applicable Facility or Facilities as in effect immediately
prior to such termination) and the denominator of which is the aggregate amount of such Facility or
Facilities at such time (or, if the Commitments shall have been terminated pursuant to Section 2.05
or 6.02 at or prior to such time, the applicable Facility or Facilities as in effect immediately
prior to such termination).

Reference Advance   has the meaning specified in Section 2.07(c).

Reference Banks   means (a) in the case of any Revolving Credit Borrowing, Citibank,
N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and (b) in the case of any Competitive Bid Borrowing, two of the
Lenders making the all or part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing (as selected by the applicable
Borrower) or if only one Lender is making such Competitive Bid Borrowing, such Lender.

Register   has the meaning specified in Section 8.07(d).

Related Indemnified Party   has the meaning specified in Section 8.04(b).

Required Lenders   means at any time Lenders owed in excess of 50% of the then
aggregate unpaid principal amount (based on the Equivalent in Dollars at such time) of the
Revolving Credit Advances owing to the Lenders or, if no such principal amount is then outstanding,
Lenders having in excess of 50% of the Commitments;  provided, however , that if any Lender shall be
an Affiliate of any Borrower at such time, there shall be excluded from the determination of
Required Lenders at such time the then aggregate unpaid principal amount (based on the Equivalent
in Dollars at such time) of the Revolving Credit Advances owing to such Affiliate (in its capacity
as a Lender) at such time or, if no such principal amount is then outstanding, such Affiliate s
Commitment at such time.

Revolving Credit Advance   means a Tranche A Advance or a Tranche B Advance, as
applicable.

Revolving Credit Borrowing   means a Tranche A Borrowing or a Tranche B Borrowing, as
applicable.

Scheduled Termination Date   means the Termination Date as defined by reference to
clause (a) of the definition thereof.

Section 2.14 Certificate   has the meaning specified in Section 2.14(c)(ii).

Sterling   means the lawful currency of the United Kingdom.

Sub-Agent   means Citibank International plc.

Subsidiary   of any Person means any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited
liability company, trust or estate of which (or in which) more than 50% of (a) the issued and
outstanding capital stock having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the Board of
Directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether at the time capital stock of any other class
or classes of such corporation shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any
contingency), (b) the interest in the capital or profits

-10- 

of such limited liability company, partnership or joint venture or (c) the beneficial interest
in such trust or estate is at the time directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such Person,
by such Person and one or more of its other Subsidiaries or by one or more of such Person s other
Subsidiaries.

Taxes   has the meaning specified in Section 2.14(a).

Termination Date   means the earlier of (a) August 15, 2008 and (b) the date of
termination in whole of the aggregate Commitments pursuant to Section 2.05 or 6.02.

Tranche A Advance   means an advance by a Lender to a Borrower as part of a Tranche A
Borrowing and refers to a Base Rate Advance or a Eurocurrency Rate Advance.

Tranche A Borrowing   means a Borrowing consisting of simultaneous Tranche A Advances
of the same Type made by each of the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.01(b).

Tranche A Commitment   means, with respect to each Lender, the amount set forth
opposite such Lender s name on Schedule II hereof and identified as its  Tranche A Commitment  or,
if such Lender has entered into any Assignment and Acceptance, the amount set forth for such Lender
in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 8.07(d), as such amount may be reduced
pursuant to Section 2.05.

Tranche A Facility   means, at any time, the aggregate Tranche A Commitments of all of
the Lenders at such time.

Tranche A Note   has the meaning specified in Section 2.17(a).

Tranche B Advance   means an advance by a Lender to a Borrower as part of a Tranche B
Borrowing and refers to a Base Rate Advance or a Eurocurrency Rate Advance.

Tranche B Borrowing   means a Borrowing consisting of simultaneous Tranche B Advances
of the same Type made by each of the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.01(c).

Tranche B Commitment   means, with respect to each Lender, the amount set forth
opposite such Lender s name on Schedule II hereof and identified as its  Tranche B Commitment  or,
if such Lender has entered into any Assignment and Acceptance, the amount set forth for such Lender
in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 8.07(d), as such amount may be reduced
pursuant to Section 2.05.

Tranche B Facility   means, at any time, the aggregate Tranche B Commitments of all of
the Lenders at such time.

Tranche B Note   has the meaning specified in Section 2.17(a).

Treaty of Rome   means the Treaty of Rome of 25 March 1957, as amended by the Single
European Act 1986 and the Maastricht Treaty (which was signed at Maastricht on 7 February 1992 and
came into force on 1 November 1993), as such treaty may be amended from time to time and as
referred to in the EMU legislation.

Type   has the meaning specified in the definition of   Advance   set forth in
this Section 1.01.

-11- 

Unused Tranche A Commitment   means, with respect to any Lender at any time, (a) such
Lender s Tranche A Commitment at such time, less (b) the sum of:

(i) the aggregate principal amount of all Tranche A Advances made by such Lender (in
its capacity as a Lender) and outstanding at such time; and

(ii) the product of (A) a fraction the numerator of which is the amount of such
Lender s Tranche A Commitment at such time  minus  the aggregate principal amount of the
Tranche A Advances held by such Lender at such time and the denominator of which is the
aggregate Tranche A Commitments of all Lenders at such time  minus  the aggregate principal
amount of the Tranche A Advances made by the Lenders and outstanding at such time and (B)
the aggregate principal amount of all Competitive Bid Advances made by the Lenders and
outstanding at such time.

Unused Tranche B Commitment   means, with respect to any Lender at any time, (a) such
Lender s Tranche B Commitment at such time, less (b) the aggregate principal amount of all Tranche
B Advances made by such Lender (in its capacity as a Lender) and outstanding at such time.

Voting Equity   means capital stock issued by a corporation, or equivalent interests
in any other Person, the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled
to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person,
even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.

Yen   means the lawful currency of Japan.

SECTION 1.02  Computation of Time Periods . In this Agreement in the computation of
periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word  from  means  from and
including  and the words  to  and  until  each mean  to but excluding .

SECTION 1.03  Accounting Terms . All accounting terms not specifically defined herein
shall be construed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistent with
those applied in the preparation of the financial statements delivered to the Agent in accordance
with this Agreement (  GAAP  ).

ARTICLE II

AMOUNTS AND TERMS OF THE ADVANCES

SECTION
2.01  The Revolving Credit Advances and Reallocation Between Facilities . (a)
 Tranche A Advances . Each Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth, to make Tranche A Advances to each Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during
the period from the Closing Date until the Termination Date in an aggregate amount (based in
respect of any Advances to be denominated in any Optional Currency other than Dollars by reference
to the Equivalent thereof in Dollars determined on the date of delivery of the applicable Notice of
Revolving Credit Borrowing) not to exceed such Lender s Unused Tranche A Commitment. Each such
Borrowing shall be in a minimum amount of $10,000,000, in respect of Tranche A

-12- 

Advances denominated
in Dollars (or the Equivalent in any other applicable Optional Currency thereof), or, if less, an
aggregate amount equal to the amount by which the aggregate amount of a proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing
requested by any Borrower exceeds the aggregate amount of Competitive Bid Advances offered to be
made by the Lenders and accepted by such Borrower in respect of such Competitive Bid Borrowing, if
such Competitive Bid Borrowing is made on the same date as such Tranche A Borrowing) and shall
consist of Tranche A Advances of the same Type made on the same day by the Lenders ratably
according to their respective Tranche A Commitments;  provided  that such minimum amount shall not
apply with respect to any Revolving Credit Advances made in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 2.04(b) or 2.07(c). Within the limits of each Lender s Tranche A Commitment, each
Borrower may borrow under this Section 2.01(a), prepay pursuant to Section 2.10 and reborrow under
this Section 2.01(a).

(b)  Tranche B Advances . Each Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth, to make Tranche B Advances to each Borrower from time to time on any
Business Day during the period from the Closing Date until the Termination Date in an aggregate
amount (based in respect of any Advances to be denominated in any Optional Currency by reference to
the Equivalent thereof in Dollars determined on the date of delivery of the applicable Notice of
Revolving Credit Borrowing) not to exceed such Lender s Unused Tranche B Commitment. Each such
Borrowing shall be in a minimum amount of $10,000,000, in respect of Tranche B Advances denominated
in Dollars (or the Equivalent in any other applicable Optional Currency thereof), and shall consist
of Tranche B Advances of the same Type made on the same day by the Lenders ratably according to
their respective Tranche B Commitments;  provided  that such minimum amount shall not apply with
respect to any Tranche B Advances made in accordance with the provisions of Sections 2.04(b) or
2.07(c). Within the limits of each Lender s Tranche B Commitment, each Borrower may borrow under
this Section 2.01(b), prepay pursuant to Section 2.10 and reborrow under this Section 2.01(b).

(c)  Reallocation of Advances and Commitments . P G shall be entitled, upon at least
one Business Day s notice to the Agent, to reallocate a portion of the Tranche A Commitments to
additional Tranche B Commitments (and vice versa) and/or to reallocate all or a portion of the
outstanding Tranche A Advances comprising part of the same Borrowings to additional Tranche B
Advances comprising part of the same Borrowings (and vice versa);  provided  that (a) each such
reallocation of Commitments and/or Advances shall be made ratably among the Lenders;  provided  that
P G, in its sole discretion, may elect to reallocate all, a portion or none of such Commitments
and/or Advances to any Lender that is an Affiliate of a Borrower, (b) any such reallocation of
Advances shall be in an aggregate principal amount of at least $100,000,000 (or the Equivalent in
any other applicable Optional Currency thereof) or shall otherwise be all of the Revolving Credit
Advances comprising part of the same Borrowings and (c) any such reallocation of Commitments and/or
Advances may (but shall not be required) be made in conjunction with the exercise of the call
rights set forth in Section 2.18 and/or the put rights set forth in Section 2.19. Any notice
delivered by P G pursuant to this Section 2.01(c) shall specify (i) the effective date of each
intended reallocation of Commitments and/or Advances (ii) whether the reallocation is of
Commitments, Revolving Credit Advances or both, (iii) the amount of each such reallocation of
Commitments and/or Revolving Credit Advances and, in the case of Revolving Credit Advances, which
Borrowings are to comprise such reallocation. On or promptly following the effective date of any
reallocation of Commitments and/or Revolving Credit Advances pursuant to this Section 2.01(c), the
Agent shall notify the Lenders of the effective date of each such reallocation and shall distribute
a revised Schedule II hereto reflecting each such reallocation

SECTION 2.02  Making the Revolving Credit Advances. 

(a)  Each Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be made on notice, given not later than
(i) 9:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the date of the
proposed Borrowing in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate
Advances
denominated in Dollars, (ii) 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the second Business Day prior to the
date of the proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing
consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in any Optional Currency, or (iii) 9:00 A.M.
(New York City time) on the Business Day of the date of the proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing in
the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Base Rate Advances, by any Borrower to the
Agent (and, in

-13- 

the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances
denominated in any Optional Currency, simultaneously to the Sub-Agent), which shall give to each
Lender prompt notice thereof by telecopier or Email. Each such notice of a Revolving Credit
Borrowing (a   Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing  ) shall be by Email, confirmed promptly
by telephone or by telecopier and shall be in substantially the form of  Exhibit A-1  hereto,
specifying therein (A) the requested date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, (B) whether such
Borrowing is a Tranche A Borrowing or a Tranche B Borrowing, (C) the requested Type and Optional
Currency of Revolving Credit Advances comprising such Revolving Credit Borrowing, (D) the requested
aggregate amount of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, (E) in the case of a Revolving Credit
Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, the requested initial Interest Period for each
such Revolving Credit Advance, and (F) the requested account to which the proceeds of the requested
Revolving Credit Borrowing are to be transferred. Each Lender shall, before 11:00 A.M. (New York
City time) on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, make available for the account of its
Applicable Lending Office to the Agent at the Agent s Account, in same day funds, such Lender s
ratable portion of such Revolving Credit Borrowing. After the Agent s receipt of such funds and
upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, the Agent will make such
funds available to the appropriate Borrower by transferring the amount thereof to the account
designated by such Borrower for such purpose.

(b) Anything in subsection (a) above to the contrary notwithstanding, no Borrower may select
Eurocurrency Rate Advances for any Revolving Credit Borrowing if the obligation of the Lenders to
make Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall then be suspended pursuant to Section 2.08 or 2.12.

(c) Each Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower
giving such notice. In the case of any Revolving Credit Borrowing which the related Notice of
Revolving Credit Borrowing specifies is to be composed of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, such Borrower
shall indemnify each Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender as a result
of any failure to fulfill on or before the date specified in such Notice of Revolving Credit
Borrowing for such Revolving Credit Borrowing the applicable conditions set forth in Article III,
including, without limitation, any loss (excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense
incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such
Lender to fund the Revolving Credit Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Revolving
Credit Borrowing when such Revolving Credit Advance, as a result of such failure, is not made on
such date.

(d) Unless the Agent or the Sub-Agent, as the case may be, shall have received notice from a
Lender prior to the time of any Revolving Credit Borrowing that such Lender will not make available
to the Agent or the Sub-Agent, as the case may be, such Lender s Pro Rata Share of such Revolving
Credit Borrowing, the Agent or the Sub-Agent, as the case may be, may assume that such Lender has
made such portion available to the Agent or the Sub-Agent, as the case may be, on the date of such
Revolving Credit Borrowing in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.02 and the Agent or
the Sub-Agent, as the case may be, may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the
Borrower requesting such Revolving Credit Borrowing on such date a corresponding amount. If and to
the extent that such Lender shall not have so made such ratable portion available to the Agent or
the Sub-Agent, as the case may be, such Lender and such Borrower severally agree to repay to the
Agent or the Sub-Agent, as the case may be, forthwith on demand (or, solely in the case of the
Borrowers, within five days of such demand) such corresponding amount, together with interest
thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to such Borrower until the date
such amount is repaid to the Agent or the Sub-Agent, as the case
may be, at (i) in the case of such Borrower, the interest rate applicable at the time to
Revolving Credit Advances comprising such Revolving Credit Borrowing and (ii) in the case of such
Lender, the Federal Funds Rate. If such Lender shall repay to the Agent or the Sub-Agent, as the
case may be, such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Lender s
Revolving Credit Advance as part of such Revolving Credit Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement.

-14- 

(e) The failure of any Lender to make the Revolving Credit Advance to be made by it as part of
any Revolving Credit Borrowing shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation, if any,
hereunder to make its Revolving Credit Advance on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, but
no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Revolving Credit
Advance to be made by such other Lender on the date of any Revolving Credit Borrowing.

(f) Any Revolving Credit Advance made by any Applicable Lending Office of any Lender shall be
deemed to be an Advance of such Lender for purposes of calculating the utilization of the Tranche A
Commitment or the Tranche B Commitment (as applicable) of such Lender hereunder, except that if
such Applicable Lending Office of such Lender is another Lender, such Revolving Credit Advance
shall be deemed to be an Advance of such other Lender for purposes of calculating the utilization
of the Tranche A Commitments or the Tranche B Commitments (as applicable) of both such Lenders
hereunder.

SECTION 2.03  Competitive Bid Facility . (a)  Each Lender severally agrees that any
Borrower may make Competitive Bid Borrowings under this Section 2.03 from time to time on any
Business Day during the period from the Closing Date until the date occurring 30 days prior to the
Termination Date in the manner set forth below;  provided  that, the aggregate principal amount of
the Competitive Bid Advances comprising each Competitive Bid Borrowing shall not exceed the
aggregate Unused Tranche A Commitments of the Lenders at such time.

(i) Any Borrower may request a Competitive Bid Borrowing under this Section 2.03 by
delivering to the Agent (and, in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing not consisting of
Fixed Rate Advances or Eurocurrency Rate Advances to be denominated in Dollars,
simultaneously to the Sub-Agent), by telephone or Email, confirmed promptly in writing, or
by telecopier, a notice of a Competitive Bid Borrowing (a   Notice of Competitive Bid
Borrowing  ), in substantially the form of  Exhibit A-2  hereto, specifying therein
(A) the requested date of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing (which shall be a Business
Day), (B) the requested aggregate amount and Optional Currency of such proposed Competitive
Bid Borrowing, (C) whether such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing shall consist of Fixed
Rate Advances or Eurocurrency Rate Advances, (D) in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing
consisting of (1) Eurocurrency Rate Advances, the requested Interest Period for each such
Eurocurrency Rate Advance and (2) Fixed Rate Advances, the requested maturity date for
repayment of each such Fixed Rate Advance (which maturity date may not be earlier than the
date occurring seven days after the date of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing or later
than the earlier of (x) 365 days after the date of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing
and (y) the Termination Date), (E) the requested interest payment date or dates for each
Competitive Bid Advance comprising part of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing,
(F) whether or not the Competitive Bid Advances comprising such proposed Competitive Bid
Borrowing may be prepaid and, if so, whether with or without penalty, (G) the address and
account number of such Borrower to which the proceeds of such proposed Competitive Bid
Borrowing are to be advanced, and (H) the requested other terms, if any, to be applicable to
such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, not later than (I) 9:00 A.M. (New York City time)
at least two Business Days prior to the date of the proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, if
such Borrower shall specify in the related Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing that the
rates of interest to be offered by the Lenders shall be fixed
rates per annum (the Advances comprising any such Competitive Bid Borrowing, which
shall be denominated in Dollars or any Optional Currency, being referred to herein as
  Fixed Rate Advances  ) (II) 9:00 A.M. (New York City time) three Business Days
preceding the date of the proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing in the case of a Competitive
Bid Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in Dollars, and
(III) 2:00 P.M. (New York City time) three Business Days preceding the date of the proposed
Competitive Bid Borrowing in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing consisting of
Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in any

-15- 

Optional Currency. Each Notice of Competitive
Bid Borrowing shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower that requested such
Competitive Bid Borrowing. The Agent or the Sub-Agent, as the case may be, shall in turn
promptly notify each Lender of each request for a Competitive Bid Borrowing received by it
from any Borrower by sending such Lender a copy of the related Notice of Competitive Bid
Borrowing by telecopier or Email.

(ii) Each Lender may, in its sole discretion, elect to irrevocably offer to make one or
more Competitive Bid Advances to the Borrower requesting the Competitive Bid Advances as
part of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing at a rate or rates of interest specified by
such Lender in its sole discretion, by notifying the Agent or the Sub-Agent, as the case may
be (which shall give prompt notice thereof to the Borrower requesting the Competitive Bid
Borrowing), before 12:00 P.M. (New York City time) one Business Day prior to the date of
such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing
consisting of Fixed Rate Advances, and (B) before 1:00 P.M. (New York City time) two
Business Days prior to the date of the proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, in the case of a
Competitive Bid Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, of the minimum amount
and maximum amount of each Competitive Bid Advance that such Lender would be willing to make
as part of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing (which amounts, subject to the  proviso  of
the first sentence of this Section 2.03(a), may exceed such Lender s Tranche A Commitment),
the rate or rates of interest therefor and such Lender s Applicable Lending Office with
respect to such Competitive Bid Advance;  provided  that if the Agent, in its capacity as a
Lender, shall, in its sole discretion, elect to make any such offer, it shall notify the
Borrower requesting such Competitive Bid Borrowing of such offer at least 30 minutes before
the time and on the date on which notice of such election is to be given to the Agent or to
the Sub-Agent, as the case may be, by the other Lenders. If any Lender shall elect not to
make such an offer, such Lender shall so notify the Agent, before 10:00 A.M. (New York City
time) or the Sub-Agent before 12:00 Noon (London time), as the case may be, on the date on
which notice of such election is to be given to the Agent or to the Sub-Agent, as the case
may be, by the other Lenders, and such Lender shall not be obligated to, and shall not, make
any Competitive Bid Advance as part of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing;  provided 
that the failure by any Lender to give such notice shall not cause such Lender to be
obligated to make any Competitive Bid Advance as part of such proposed Competitive Bid
Borrowing.

(iii) The Borrower requesting any particular Competitive Bid Borrowing shall, in turn,
before (A) 4:00 P.M. (New York City time) one Business Day prior to the date of such
proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing consisting of
Fixed Rate Advances, and (B) 4:00 P.M. (New York City time) two Business Days prior to the
date of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing
consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, either:

(A) cancel such Competitive Bid Borrowing by giving the Agent notice to that
effect; or

(B) accept one or more of the offers made by any Lender or Lenders pursuant to
Section 2.03(a)(ii), in its sole discretion but subject to the next two succeeding
sentences, by giving notice to the Agent or to the Sub-Agent, as the case may be, of
the amount of each Competitive Bid Advance (which amount shall be equal to or
greater than the minimum amount, and equal to or less than the maximum amount,
notified to such Borrower by the Agent or the Sub-Agent, as the case may be, on
behalf of such Lender for such Competitive Bid Advance pursuant to
Section 2.03(a)(ii)) to be made by each Lender as part of such Competitive Bid
Borrowing, and reject any

-16- 

remaining offers made by Lenders pursuant to
Section 2.03(a)(ii) by giving the Agent or the Sub-Agent, as the case may be, notice
to that effect;  provided ,  however , that such Borrower may not accept offers that, in
the aggregate, exceed the amount of the proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing specified
in the related Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing. The Borrower that requested
such Competitive Bid Borrowing shall accept the offers made by any Lender or Lenders
to make Competitive Bid Advances in order of the lowest to the highest rates of
interest offered by such Lenders for a particular Competitive Bid Borrowing. If two
or more Lenders have offered the same interest rate for a particular Competitive Bid
Borrowing, the amount to be borrowed at such interest rate will be allocated among
such Lenders ratably according to the amount that each such Lender offered at such
interest rate.

(iv) If the Borrower that requested any particular Competitive Bid Borrowing notifies
the Agent or the Sub-Agent, as the case may be, that such Competitive Bid Borrowing is
cancelled pursuant to Section 2.03(a)(iii)(A), the Agent or the Sub-Agent, as the case may
be, shall give prompt notice thereof to each of the Lenders and such Competitive Bid
Borrowing shall not be made.

(v) If the Borrower that requested any particular Competitive Bid Borrowing accepts one
or more of the offers made by any Lender or Lenders pursuant to Section 2.03(a)(iii)(B) in
respect of such Competitive Bid Borrowing, the Agent or the Sub-Agent, as the case may be,
shall in turn promptly notify (A) each Lender that has made an offer as described in
Section 2.03(a)(ii) of the date and the aggregate amount of such Competitive Bid Borrowing
and whether or not any offer or offers made by such Lender pursuant to Section 2.03(a)(ii)
have been accepted by such Borrower and (B) each Lender that is to make a Competitive Bid
Advance as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing, (1) of the amount of each Competitive Bid
Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing and (2) upon
receipt, that the Agent or the Sub-Agent, as the case may be, has received forms of
documents appearing to fulfill the applicable conditions set forth in Article III. Each
Lender that is to make a Competitive Bid Advance as part of any Competitive Bid Borrowing
shall, before 12:00 Noon (New York City time) on the date of such Competitive Bid Borrowing
specified in the notice received from the Agent or from the Sub-Agent, as the case may be,
pursuant to subclause (v)(A) of the immediately preceding sentence or any later time when
such Lender shall have received notice from the Agent or from the Sub-Agent, as the case may
be, pursuant to subclause (v)(B)(2) of the immediately preceding sentence, make available
for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent at the applicable Agent s
Account, in same day funds, such Lender s portion of such Competitive Bid Borrowing. Upon
fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Article III and after receipt by the
Agent of such funds, the Agent will make such funds available to the Borrower that requested
such Borrowing at the address and the account number specified by such Borrower in the
related Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing or, if no such address and account number are
specified in the related Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing, at the Agent s address
referred to in Section 8.02. Promptly after (x) each Competitive Bid Borrowing, the Agent
will notify each Lender of the amount of such Competitive Bid Borrowing, the corresponding
Competitive Bid Reduction resulting therefrom and the dates upon which such Competitive
Bid Reduction commenced and will terminate and (y) the prepayment of any Competitive Bid
Borrowing by the applicable Borrower, the Agent will notify each Lender of the amount and
date of each such prepayment and the amount, if any, of the corresponding Competitive Bid
Reduction remaining after giving effect thereto.

(vi) If the Borrower that requested any applicable Competitive Bid Borrowing notifies
the Agent or the Sub-Agent, as the case may be, that it accepts one or more of the offers

-17- 

made by any Lender or Lenders pursuant to Section 2.03(a)(iii)(B), such notice of acceptance
shall be irrevocable and binding on such Borrower. Such Borrower shall indemnify each
Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender as a result of any failure
to fulfill on or before the date specified in such Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing for
such Competitive Bid Borrowing the applicable conditions set forth in Article III,
including, without limitation, any loss (excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or
expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds
acquired by such Lender to fund the Competitive Bid Advance to be made by such Lender as
part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing when such Competitive Bid Advance, as a result of
such failure, is not made on such date.

(b) Each Competitive Bid Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount of not less than
$10,000,000 (or the Equivalent in any other Optional Currency thereof) and, following the making of
each Competitive Bid Borrowing, the Borrowers shall be in compliance with the limitation set forth
in the  proviso  to the first sentence of Section 2.03(a).

(c) Within the limits and on the conditions set forth in this Section 2.03, any Borrower may
from time to time borrow under Section 2.03(a), repay pursuant to Section 2.06(b) or prepay
pursuant to Section 2.03(d), and reborrow under Section 2.03(a).

(d) The Borrower to which any particular Competitive Bid Borrowing is made shall have no right
to prepay the principal amount of any Competitive Bid Advance (or any portion thereof) unless, and
then only on the terms, specified by such Borrower for such Competitive Bid Advance in the related
Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing delivered pursuant to Section 2.03(a)(i) and, if applicable,
set forth in the Competitive Bid Note evidencing such Competitive Bid Advance.

(e) The Borrower to which any particular Competitive Bid Borrowing is made shall pay interest
on the unpaid principal amount of each Competitive Bid Advance from the date of such Competitive
Bid Advance to the date the principal amount of such Competitive Bid Advance is repaid in full, at
the rate of interest for and in the Optional Currency of such Competitive Bid Advance specified by
the Lender making such Competitive Bid Advance in its notice with respect thereto delivered
pursuant to Section 2.03(a)(ii), payable on the interest payment date or dates specified by such
Borrower for such Competitive Bid Advance in the related Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing
delivered pursuant to Section 2.03(a)(i) and, if applicable, provided in the Competitive Bid Note
evidencing such Competitive Bid Advance.

(f) Each Borrower agrees that upon notice by any Lender to such Borrower (with a copy of such
notice to the Agent) to the effect that a promissory note or other evidence of indebtedness is
required or appropriate in order for such Lender to evidence (whether for purposes of pledge,
enforcement or otherwise) any Competitive Bid Advance owing to, or to be made by, such Lender as
part of a Competitive Bid Borrowing, such Borrower shall promptly execute and deliver to such
Lender a separate promissory note, in substantially the form of  Exhibit F-2  hereto (each, a
  Competitive Bid Note  ), payable to the order of such Lender in a principal amount equal to
the amount of indebtedness of such Borrower resulting from such Competitive Bid Advance.

SECTION 2.04  Facility Fees .

(a) P G agrees to pay to the Agent for the account of each Lender a facility fee (a
  Facility Fee  ) in Dollars on the sum of (i) the aggregate amount of such Lender s
Commitments plus (ii) such Lender s ratable share of the aggregate amount of the Commitments
assumed by Affiliates of any of the Borrowers pursuant to Section 2.18, from the Effective Date in
the case of each Initial Lender and from the effective date specified in the Assignment and
Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender in

-18- 

the case of each other Lender until the
Termination Date or the Maturity Date, as applicable to such Lender, at a rate per annum equal to
0.025% per annum, payable in arrears quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and
December and on the Termination Date or the Maturity Date, as applicable.

(b) At any time prior to the Termination Date, unless P G shall have notified the Agent in
writing on or before 9:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the
last day of each March, June, September and December and the Termination Date, that it will pay, in
cash, the Facility Fees that are due and payable by it on such date, the Lenders will be deemed to
have made Tranche A Advances and/or Tranche B Advances, as appropriate, on such date in an amount
equal to the Facility Fees that would otherwise be due and payable on such date, in each case which
Revolving Credit Advance, unless P G has otherwise notified the Agent in writing on or before such
Business Day, shall be a Eurocurrency Rate Advance denominated in Dollars (or the Equivalent in any
other Optional Currency thereof) having an initial Interest Period of one week. Each Revolving
Credit Advance made pursuant to this Section 2.04(b) shall be deemed to have made pursuant to the
Commitments and shall be subject to the limitations that the aggregate outstanding principal amount
of the Tranche A Advances may at no time exceed the amount of the Tranche A Facility then in effect
and the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Tranche B Advances may at no time exceed the
amount of the Tranche B Facility then in effect.

SECTION 2.05  Termination or Reduction of the Commitments. 

(a)  Optional . P G shall have the right, upon at least three Business Days  notice to
the Agent, to terminate in whole or reduce in part the Unused Tranche A Commitments or the Unused
Tranche B Commitments of the Lenders;  provided  that each partial reduction shall be in the
aggregate amount of $10,000,000; and  provided ,  further , that P G, in its sole discretion, may elect
to effect such termination or reduction on a non-ratable basis with respect to the Unused Tranche A
Commitments or the Unused Tranche B Commitments of one or more Lenders that are Affiliates of a
Borrower (it being understood that such termination or reduction shall be on a ratable basis as to
all other Lenders).

(b)  Mandatory . The Commitments of each Lender shall automatically terminate on the
Termination Date or Maturity Date, as applicable to such Lender.

SECTION 2.06  Repayment of Advances .

(a)  Revolving Credit Advances . Each Borrower shall repay to the Agent for the ratable
account of each Lender on the Termination Date or Maturity Date, as applicable to such Lender the
aggregate principal amount of all Revolving Credit Advances made by such Lender to it that are then
outstanding.

(b)  Repayment of Competitive Bid Advances . Each Borrower shall repay to the Agent,
for the account of each Lender that has made a Competitive Bid Advance, the aggregate outstanding
principal amount of each Competitive Bid Advance made to such Borrower and owing to such Lender on
the earlier of (i) the maturity date therefor, in the case of any such Competitive Bid Advance that
is a Fixed
Advance, or the last day of the Interest Period therefor, in the case of any such Competitive
Bid Advance that is a Eurocurrency Rate Advance, in each case as specified in the related Notice of
Competitive Bid Borrowing delivered pursuant to Section 2.03(a)(i) and, if applicable, provided in
the Competitive Bid Note evidencing such Competitive Bid Advance, and (ii) the Termination Date.

SECTION 2.07  Interest on Revolving Credit Advances .

-19- 

(a)  Scheduled Interest . Subject to the provisions of Section 2.07(c), each Borrower
shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Credit Advance made to it that
is owing to each Lender from the date of such Revolving Credit Advance until such principal amount
shall be paid in full, at the following rates per annum:

(i)  Base Rate Advances . During such periods as such Revolving Credit Advance
is a Base Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times to the sum of (A) the Base Rate
in effect from time to time  plus  (B) the Applicable Margin for Base Rate Advances, payable
in arrears on each Interest Payment Date with respect to such Base Rate Advance.

(ii)  Eurocurrency Rate Advances . During such periods as such Revolving Credit
Advance is a Eurocurrency Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times during each
Interest Period for such Advance to the sum of (A) the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest
Period for such Advance  plus  (B) the Applicable Margin for Eurocurrency Rate Advances,
payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date with respect to such Eurocurrency Rate
Advance.

(b)  Default Interest . Each Borrower shall pay interest on:

(i) any portion of the unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Credit Advance made to
it that is owing to each Lender that is not paid when due, from the date such amount shall
be due until such amount shall be paid in full, payable in arrears on the date such amount
shall be paid in full and on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum
above the rate per annum required to be paid on such Revolving Credit Advance pursuant to
clause (a)(i) or (a)(ii) above, as the case may be;

(ii) any portion of the unpaid principal amount of each Competitive Bid Advance made to
such Borrower and owing to any Lender, payable in arrears on the date or dates interest is
payable on such Competitive Bid Advance, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per
annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on such Competitive Bid Advance in the
offer made by such Lender pursuant to Section 2.03(a)(ii) and accepted by such Borrower
under Section 2.03(a)(v); and

(iii) to the fullest extent permitted by law, the amount of any interest, fee or other
amount payable hereunder that is not paid when due, from the date such amount shall be due
until such amount shall be paid in full, payable in arrears on the date such amount shall be
paid in full and on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the
rate per annum required to be paid on Base Rate Advances pursuant to clause (a)(i) above.

(c)  Capitalization of Interest . Unless the appropriate Borrower has notified the Agent
in writing on or before 9:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding
the relevant Interest Payment Date or date of a prepayment pursuant to Section 2.10(b)(i), that it
will pay, in cash, the interest applicable to any Revolving Credit Advance that is due and payable
by it on such Interest Payment Date in accordance with Section 2.07(a) or on such prepayment date
in accordance with Section 2.10(b)(i), as applicable, the Lenders will be deemed to have made
Tranche A Advances and/or
Tranche B Advances, as appropriate, on such Interest Payment Date or prepayment date, as
applicable, in an amount equal to the aggregate amount of interest that would otherwise be due and
payable on such date, which Revolving Credit Advances shall, unless such Borrower has otherwise
notified the Agent in writing on or before such Business Day, (i) be of the same Type and Optional
Currency as the Advance (the   Reference Advance  ) in respect of which such interest shall
have accrued (in each case after giving effect to any Conversion of the Reference Advance on such
Interest Payment Date), and (ii) if such Revolving Credit Advance is a Eurocurrency Rate Advance,
have an initial Interest Period of the same

-20- 

duration as the Interest Period commencing on such
Interest Payment Date with respect to the Reference Advance,  provided, however  notwithstanding
anything herein to the contrary, the appropriate Borrower shall pay in cash all accrued and unpaid
interest on (x) Base Rate Advances made after the Scheduled Termination Date and (y) Eurocurrency
Rate Advances the Interest Periods with respect to which have commenced after the Scheduled
Termination Date. Each Revolving Credit Advance made pursuant to this Section 2.07(c) shall be
deemed to have been made pursuant to the Commitments and shall be subject to the limitations that
the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Tranche A Advances may at no time exceed the
amount of the Tranche A Facility then in effect and the aggregate outstanding principal amount of
the Tranche B Advances may at no time exceed the amount of the Tranche B Facility then in effect.

SECTION 2.08  Interest Rate Determination .

(a) Each Reference Bank agrees to furnish to the Agent timely information for the purpose of
determining each Eurocurrency Rate. If any one or more of the Reference Banks shall not furnish
such timely information to the Agent for the purpose of determining any such interest rate, the
Agent shall determine such interest rate on the basis of timely information furnished by the
remaining Reference Banks. The Agent shall give prompt notice to each of the Borrowers and the
Lenders of the applicable interest rate determined by the Agent for purposes of Section 2.07(a)(i)
or 2.07(a)(ii), and the rate, if any, furnished by each Reference Bank for the purpose of
determining the interest rate under Section 2.07(a)(ii).

(b) If, with respect to any Eurocurrency Rate Advances, the Required Lenders in good faith
notify the Agent that the Eurocurrency Rate for any Interest Period for such Advances will not
adequately reflect the cost to such Required Lenders of making, funding or maintaining their
respective Eurocurrency Rate Advances for such Interest Period, the Agent shall forthwith so notify
each of the Borrowers and the Lenders, whereupon (i)(A) each Eurocurrency Rate Advance denominated
in Dollars will automatically Convert into Base Rate Advances, and (B) each Eurocurrency Rate
Advance denominated in any Optional Currency will automatically be exchanged for an Equivalent of
Dollars and Convert into Base Rate Advances, and (ii) the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to
Convert Advances into, Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify
each of the Borrowers and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer
exist.

(c) If any Borrower shall fail to select the duration of any Interest Period for any
Eurocurrency Rate Advances in accordance with the provisions contained in the definition of
  Interest Period   in Section 1.01, the Agent will forthwith so notify each of the Borrowers
and the Lenders and such Advances will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest
Period therefor, Convert into Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in the same Optional Currency
and having an Interest Period of one week.

(d) On the date on which the aggregate unpaid principal amount of Eurocurrency Rate Advances
comprising any Borrowing shall be reduced, by payment or prepayment or otherwise, to less than
$10,000,000 (or the Equivalent in any other Optional Currency thereof), such Advances shall
automatically (i) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in Dollars, Convert into Base
Rate
Advances and (ii) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in any other Optional
Currency, be exchanged for an Equivalent amount of Dollars and Convert into Base Rate Advances.

(e) Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, (i) each
Eurocurrency Rate Advance will, upon the written request of the Agent (at the request of the
Required Lenders), on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, (A) if such
Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in Dollars, be Converted into a Base Rate Advance and
(B) if such Eurocurrency

-21- 

Rate Advance is denominated in any other Optional Currency, be exchanged
for an Equivalent amount of Dollars and be Converted into a Base Rate Advance and (ii) the
obligation of the Lenders to make, or to Convert Advances into, Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be
suspended.

(f) If either, with respect to Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in Dollars, the Reuters
Screen LIBOR01 Page, or, with respect to Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in any other
Optional Currency, the Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page, is unavailable and, in each such case, fewer
than two Reference Banks furnish timely information to the Agent for determining the applicable
Eurocurrency Rate,

(i) the Agent shall forthwith notify the applicable Borrower and the Lenders that the
interest rate cannot be determined for such Eurocurrency Rate Advances,

(ii) each such Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing
Interest Period therefor, (A) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in Dollars,
Convert into a Base Rate Advance and (B) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in
any Optional Currency, be prepaid by the applicable Borrower or be automatically exchanged
for an Equivalent amount of Dollars and be Converted into a Base Rate Advance (or if such
Advance is then a Base Rate Advance, will continue as a Base Rate Advance), and

(iii) the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances or to Convert
Advances into Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify
each of the Borrowers and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no
longer exist.

SECTION 2.09  Optional Conversion of Advances .

Any Borrower may subject to the provisions of Sections 2.08 and 2.12, Convert all or any
portion of Revolving Credit Advances under the same Facility of one Type made to it and comprising
the same Borrowing into Advances of the other Type;  provided ,  however , that (a) any such Conversion
of (i) Base Rate Advances into Eurocurrency Advances denominated in Dollars or of Eurocurrency
Advances of one Interest Period into Eurocurrency Advances denominated in Dollars and of another
Interested Period shall be made on notice received no later than 9:00 A.M. (New York City time) on
the Business Day immediately preceding the date of the proposed Conversion, or (ii) in all other
cases, shall be made on notice received no later than 9:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the
Business Day of the proposed Conversion, (b) in the case of any Conversion of Eurocurrency Rate
Advances denominated in Dollars into Base Rate Advances other than on the last day of an Interest
Period therefor, the Borrower requesting such Conversion shall be obligated to reimburse the
Lenders in respect thereof pursuant to Section 8.04(c), and (c) any Conversion of Base Rate
Advances into Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be in an amount not less than $10,000,000. Each
such notice of a Conversion shall, within the restrictions specified above, specify (i) the date of
such Conversion, (ii) whether the Advances to be Converted are Tranche A Advances or Tranche B
Advances, (iii) the Advances to be Converted, and (iv) if such Conversion is into Eurocurrency Rate
Advances, the duration of the initial Interest Period for each such Advance. Each notice of
Conversion shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower giving such notice.

SECTION 2.10  Prepayments .

(a)  Optional.   Each Borrower may, upon at least three Business Days notice to the
Agent in the case of any Revolving Credit Borrowing comprised of Eurocurrency Rate Advances and one
Business Day s notice to the Agent in the case of any Revolving Credit Borrowing comprised of Base
Rate Advances, in each case stating the proposed date and aggregate principal amount of the
prepayment, and

-22- 

if such notice is given such Borrower shall, prepay the outstanding principal
amount of the Tranche A Advances or the Tranche B Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing in
whole or ratably in part, together with accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the
principal amount prepaid;  provided ,  however , that (i) each partial prepayment shall be in an
aggregate principal amount of at least $10,000,000 (or the Equivalent in any other Optional
Currency thereof), and (ii) in the event of any such prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance,
such Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse the Lenders in respect thereof pursuant to
Section 8.04(c). No Borrower may prepay any Competitive Bid Advances other than in accordance with
Section 2.03(d).

(b)  Mandatory . (i)  If, on any date, the Agent notifies P G that, on any Interest
Payment Date, the sum of (A) the aggregate principal amount of all Advances denominated in Dollars
 plus  (B) the Equivalent in Dollars (determined on the Business Day immediately preceding such
Interest Payment Date) of the aggregate principal amount of all Advances denominated in Optional
Currency other than Dollars then outstanding exceeds 110% of the aggregate Commitments of the
Lenders on such date, one or more of the Borrowers (as determined by P G) shall, as soon as
practicable and in any event within five Business Days after receipt of such notice, subject to the
proviso to this sentence below, prepay the outstanding principal amount of any such Advances (which
may be, at P G s election, Tranche A Advances and/or Tranche B Advances) owing by such Borrowers in
an aggregate amount sufficient to reduce such sum to an amount not to exceed 100% of the aggregate
Commitments of the Lenders on such date (but with any interest accrued on the aggregate principal
amount of Advances prepaid to be payable as otherwise provided under Section 2.07(a));  provided,
however , that if the aggregate principal amount of Base Rate Advances outstanding at the time of
such required prepayment is less than the amount of such required prepayment, the portion of such
required prepayment in excess of the aggregate principal amount of Base Rate Advances then
outstanding shall be deferred until the earliest to occur of the last day of the Interest Period of
the outstanding Eurocurrency Rate Advances in an aggregate amount equal to the excess of such
required prepayment. The Agent shall give prompt notice of any prepayment required under this
Section 2.10(b)(i) to each of the Borrowers and the Lenders, and shall provide prompt notice to
each of the Borrowers of any such notice of required prepayment received by it from any Lender.

(ii) On each Business Day, the Borrowers shall repay (A) the outstanding Tranche A
Advances by an amount equal to the excess of the outstanding principal amount of the Tranche
A Advances over the aggregate Tranche A Commitments after giving effect to any reduction of
the Tranche A Commitments pursuant to Section 2.05 on the immediately preceding Business Day
and (B) the outstanding Tranche B Advances by an amount equal to the excess of the
outstanding principal amount of the Tranche B Advances over the aggregate Tranche B
Commitments after giving effect to any reduction of the Tranche B Commitments pursuant to
Section 2.05 on the immediately preceding Business Day.

SECTION 2.11  Increased Costs .

(a) If, due to either (i) the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any
law or regulation enacted or issued after the date of this Agreement or (ii) the compliance with
any guideline or request from any central bank or other governmental authority (whether or not
having the force of law) issued after the date of this Agreement, there shall be any material
increase in the cost to any Lender of agreeing to make or making, funding or maintaining
Eurocurrency Rate Advances (excluding for
purposes of this Section 2.11 any such increased costs resulting from (i) Taxes (as to which
Section 2.14 shall govern) or (ii) changes in the basis of taxation of overall net income or
overall gross income by the United States or by the foreign jurisdiction, state or any political
subdivision thereof under the laws of which such Lender has any present or former connection, then
one or more of the Borrowers shall from time to time, within 30 days of written demand by such
Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender
additional amounts sufficient to compensate such

-23- 

Lender for such increased cost. A certificate as
to the amount of such increased cost in reasonable detail and stating the basis upon which such
amount has been calculated and certifying that such Lender s method of allocating such costs is
fair and reasonable and that such Lender s demand for payment of such costs hereunder is not
inconsistent with its treatment of other borrowers which, as a credit matter, are similarly
situated to P G and which are subject to similar provisions, submitted to the Borrowers and the
Agent by such Lender, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent error in the
calculation of such amount.

(b) If any Lender reasonably determines that compliance with any law or regulation enacted or
issued after the date of this Agreement, or any guideline or request from any central bank or other
governmental authority (whether or not having the force of law) issued after the date of this
Agreement, affects or would affect the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by
such Lender or any corporation controlling such Lender and that the amount of such capital is
materially increased by or based upon the existence of such Lender s commitment to lend hereunder
and other commitments of this type, then, within 30 days of written demand by such Lender (with a
copy of such demand to the Agent), one or more of the Borrowers shall pay to the Agent for the
account of such Lender, from time to time as specified by such Lender, additional amounts
sufficient to compensate such Lender or such corporation in the light of such circumstances, to the
extent that such Lender reasonably determines such increase in capital to be allocable to the
existence of such Lender s commitment to lend hereunder. A certificate as to the amount of such
increased cost in reasonable detail and stating the basis upon which such amount has been
calculated and certifying that such Lender s method of allocating such costs is fair and reasonable
and that such Lender s demand for payment of such costs hereunder is not inconsistent with its
treatment of other borrowers which, as a credit matter, are similarly situated to P G and which are
subject to similar provisions, submitted to the Borrowers and the Agent by such Lender, shall be
conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent error in the calculation of such amount.

(c) Before making any demand under this Section 2.11, each Lender agrees to use reasonable
efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to designate a
different Applicable Lending Office if the making of such a designation would avoid the need for,
or reduce the amount of, such increased cost and would not, in the reasonable judgment of such
Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender. Notwithstanding anything in subsection (a) or
(b) of this Section 2.11 to the contrary, no Borrower shall be obligated to compensate any Lender
for any amounts arising or accruing before the date which is 180 days prior to the date on which
such Lender provides written demand for such payment to such Borrower and the Agent under such
Sections.

(d) If any Lender shall subsequently recoup any costs (other than from a Borrower) for which
such Lender has theretofore been compensated by a Borrower under this Section 2.11, such Lender
shall remit to such Borrower an amount equal to the amount of such recoupment.

(e) If any Lender entitled to additional compensation under any of the foregoing provisions of
this Section 2.11 shall fail to designate a different Applicable Lending Office that avoids the
need for additional compensation as provided in this Section 2.11, then P G may cause such Lender
to (and, if P G so demands, such Lender or the Agent shall) assign all of its rights and
obligations under this Agreement to one or more other Persons identified by any Borrower in the
manner provided in Section 8.11.

SECTION 2.12  Illegality. 

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if any Lender shall notify the Agent
that the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation makes
it unlawful, or any central bank or other governmental authority asserts that it is unlawful, for
any Lender or its

-24- 

Eurocurrency Lending Office to perform its obligations hereunder to make
Eurocurrency Rate Advances in Dollars or any other Optional Currency or to fund or maintain
Eurocurrency Rate Advances in Dollars or any other Optional Currency hereunder, (a) each
Eurocurrency Rate Advance, as the case may be, will automatically, upon such demand, (i) if such
Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in Dollars, Convert into a Base Rate Advance and (ii) if
such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in any other Currency, be exchanged for an Equivalent
amount of Dollars and Convert into a Base Rate Advance, and (b) the obligation of the Lenders to
make Eurocurrency Rate Advances or to Convert Advances into Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be
suspended until the Agent shall notify each of the Borrowers and the Lenders that the circumstances
causing such suspension no longer exist;  provided ,  however , that before making any such demand,
each Lender agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and
regulatory restrictions) to designate a different Eurocurrency Lending Office if the making of such
a designation would allow such Lender or its Eurocurrency Lending Office to continue to perform its
obligations to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances or to continue to fund or maintain Eurocurrency Rate
Advances and would not, in the judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such
Lender.

SECTION 2.13  Payments and Computations .

(a) Each Borrower shall make each payment hereunder and under the Notes, if any, irrespective
of any right of counterclaim or set-off, with respect to principal of, interest on, and other
amounts relating to, Advances denominated in Dollars, not later than 1:00 P.M. (New York City time)
on the day when due in Dollars to the Agent, by deposit of such funds to the applicable Agent s
Account in same day funds. Each Borrower shall make each payment hereunder and under the Notes, if
any, irrespective of any right of counterclaim or set-off, with respect to principal of, interest
on, and other amounts relating to, Advances denominated in any Optional Currency (other than
Dollars), not later than 1:00 P.M. (London time) on the day when due in such Optional Currency
(other than Dollars) to the Agent, by deposit of such funds to the applicable Agent s Account in
same day funds. The Agent will promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds relating to
the payment of principal or interest or facility fees ratably (other than amounts payable pursuant
to Section 2.03, 2.11, 2.14 or 8.04(c)) to the Lenders for the account of their respective
Applicable Lending Offices, and like funds relating to the payment of any other amount payable to
any Lender to such Lender for the account of its Applicable Lending Office, in each case to be
applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Upon an extension pursuant to Section
2.20, and upon Agent s receipt of each Assuming Extending Lender s Assignment Agreement and
recording of the information contained therein in the Register, from and after the date upon an
Assuming Extending Lender giving notice pursuant to Section 2.20(a) herein, the Agent shall make
all payments hereunder and under any Notes issued in connection therewith in respect of the
interest assumed thereby. Upon its acceptance of an Assignment and Acceptance or the effective
date of the exercise of the call rights in Section 2.18 or the put rights in Section 2.19, as the
case may be, and, in any such case, its recording of the information contained therein or relating
thereto in the Register pursuant to Section 8.07(c), from and after the effective date specified in
such Assignment and Acceptance or the applicable notice delivered pursuant to Section 2.18 or
Section 2.19, as applicable, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under the Notes, if
any, in respect of the interest assigned thereby to the Lender assignee thereunder, and the parties
to such Assignment and Acceptance shall make all appropriate adjustments in such payments for
periods prior to such effective date directly between themselves.

(b) All computations of interest based on the Base Rate shall be made by the Agent on the
basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and all computations of interest based on
the Eurocurrency Rate or the Federal Funds Rate and of facility fees shall be made by the Agent or
the Sub-Agent, as the case may be, on the basis of a year of 360 days, in each case for the actual
number of days (including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for
which such interest or

-25- 

facility fees are payable. Each determination by the Agent of an interest
rate hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.

(c) Whenever any payment hereunder or under the Notes, if any, shall be stated to be due on a
day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and
such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of payment of interest or
facility fee, as the case may be;  provided ,  however , that, if such extension would cause payment of
interest on or principal of Eurocurrency Rate Advances to be made in the next following calendar
month, such payment shall be made on the next preceding Business Day.

(d) Unless the Agent or the Sub-Agent, as the case may be, shall have received notice from the
appropriate Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Lenders hereunder that
such Borrower will not make such payment in full, the Agent or the Sub-Agent, as the case may be,
may assume that such Borrower has made such payment in full to the Agent or to the Sub-Agent, as
the case may be, on such date, and the Agent or the Sub-Agent, as the case may be, may, in reliance
upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Lender on such due date an amount equal to
the amount then due such Lender. If and to the extent such Borrower shall not have so made such
payment in full to the Agent or to the Sub-Agent, as the case may be, each Lender shall repay to
the Agent or to the Sub-Agent, as the case may be, forthwith on demand such amount distributed to
such Lender, together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed
to such Lender until the date such Lender repays such amount to the Agent or to the Sub-Agent, as
the case may be, at (i) the Federal Funds Rate, in the case of Advances denominated in Dollars, or
(ii) the cost of funds incurred by the Sub-Agent, in respect of such amount in the case of Advances
denominated in any other Optional Currency.

SECTION 2.14  Taxes .

(a) Each Borrower (including for purposes of this Section 2.14 P G in its capacity as
guarantor) shall only be required to pay or reimburse any Lender or the Agent for present or future
taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, withholdings or other governmental charges arising from or in
connection with any payments made by any Borrower under this Agreement or any of the other Loan
Documents, or any liabilities with respect to the foregoing (collectively,   Taxes  ), other
than Excluded Taxes. If any Borrower shall be required by law to deduct any Taxes from or in
respect of any sum payable hereunder or under any of the other Loan Documents to any Lender or the
Agent, (i) such Borrower shall make such deductions in respect of Taxes, (ii) such Borrower shall
pay the full amount deducted in respect of Taxes to the relevant taxation authority or other
governmental or regulatory authority in accordance with applicable law, and (iii) to the extent
there is an increase in any Taxes (other than Excluded Taxes) imposed on such Lender or the Agent
as a result of this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents (such increased amount being the
  Non-Excluded Taxes   of such Lender or the Agent), the sum payable by such Borrower shall
be increased as may be necessary so that after making all required deductions of Non-Excluded Taxes
such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have
received had no such deductions been made in respect of Non-Excluded Taxes. Within 30 days after
the date of any payment of Non-Excluded Taxes by any Borrower, such Borrower shall furnish to the
Agent, at its address referred to in Section 8.02, the original or a copy of a receipt evidencing
such payment. For purposes of this Section 2.14, the term  Change in Law  shall mean the adoption
of any law, rule, regulation, court decision or precedential administrative guidance after the date
of this Agreement.

(b) Each of the Borrowers shall indemnify each Lender and the Agent for, and hold each of them
harmless against, the full amount of Non-Excluded Taxes paid by such Lender or the Agent, as the
case may be. This indemnification shall be made within 90 days
from the date on which such Lender or

-26- 

the Agent, as the case may be, makes written demand therefor and provides adequate documentary
evidence of payment thereof.

(c) Each Lender and the Agent shall deliver or cause to be delivered to any requesting
Borrower required to withhold under Section 1441 or 1442 or comply with any information reporting
or backup withholding requirements of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the
regulations thereunder, the following properly completed and duly executed documents:

(i) if such Lender or the Agent is not a United States Person, a complete and executed
(A) U.S. Internal Revenue Form W-8BEN with Part II completed in which Lender claims and
validly establishes the benefits of a tax treaty with the United States providing for a zero
or reduced rate of withholding (or any successor forms thereto), including all appropriate
attachments, or (B) a U.S. Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI (or any successor forms
thereto);

(ii) if such Lender or the Agent is a natural person, a complete and executed (A) U.S.
Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN (or any successor forms thereto) and a certificate, in
substantially the form of  Exhibit E  hereto (a   Section 2.14 Certificate  ),
or (B) U.S. Internal Revenue Service Form W-9 (or any successor forms thereto);

(iii) if such Lender or the Agent is organized under the laws of the United States, any
State thereof, or the District of Columbia, (A) a complete and executed U.S. Internal
Revenue Service Form W-9 (or any successor forms thereto), including all appropriate
attachments, or (B) if such Person is disregarded for federal income tax purposes, the
documents that would be required under this clause (iii) or clause (i), (ii), (iv), (v) or
(vi) of this Section 2.14(c) with respect to its beneficial owner as if such beneficial
owner were a Lender;

(iv) if such Lender or the Agent (A) is not organized under the laws of the United
States, any State thereof, or the District of Columbia and (B) is treated as a corporation
for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a complete and executed U.S. Internal Revenue Service
Form W-8BEN establishing a zero rate of withholding (or any successor forms thereto) and a
Section 2.14 Certificate;

(v) if such Lender or the Agent (A) is treated as a partnership or other non-corporate
entity, and (B) is not organized under the laws of the United States, any State thereof, or
the District of Columbia, (1) a complete and executed U.S. Internal Revenue Service Form
W-8IMY (or any successor forms thereto), including all required documents and attachments,
and (2) a Section 2.14 Certificate, and, without duplication, with respect to each of its
beneficial owners and the beneficial owners of such beneficial owners looking through chains
of owners to individuals or entities that are treated as corporations for U.S. federal
income tax purposes (all such owners, the   beneficial owners  ), the documents that
would be required by this clause (v) and/or clause (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and/or clause (vi)
of this Section 2.14(c) with respect to each such beneficial owner if such beneficial owner
were Lender,  provided ,  however , that no such documents will be required with respect to a
beneficial owner to the extent the actual Lender or the Agent is determined to be in
compliance with the requirements for certification on behalf of its beneficial owner as may
be provided in applicable U.S. Treasury Regulations, or the requirements of this clause (v)
are otherwise determined to be unnecessary (all such determinations under this clause (v) to
be made in the sole discretion of P  or

(vi) (A) if such Lender or the Agent is disregarded for U.S. federal income tax
purposes, such Person shall deliver the document that would be required by this clause (vi),
or by

-27- 

clause (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), or (v) of Section 2.14(c) with respect to its sole
owner as if such sole owner were such Lender or the Agent, or (B) if such Lender or the
Agent is not a United States person and is acting in the capacity as an  intermediary  (as
defined in U.S. Treasury Regulations), (1) a complete and executed U.S. Internal Revenue
Service Form W-8IMY (or any successor form thereto), including all required documents and
attachments, and (2) if such intermediary is a  non-qualified intermediary  (as defined in
U.S. Treasury Regulations), from each person on whose behalf the  non-qualified
intermediary  is acting, the documents that would be required by clause (i), (ii), (iii),
(iv), (v) or this clause (vi) of Section 2.14(c) with respect to each such Person as if each
such Person were Lender.

In addition, each Lender or the Agent, shall provide any requesting Borrower with such other forms,
certificates and other documentation as may be necessary or appropriate to obtain any reduction of
or exemption from any withholding or other Tax imposed by any governmental authority on payments
made by such Borrower under any Loan Document. Each Lender and the Agent shall provide the
appropriate forms, certificates and other documentation described in this Section 2.14(c) (x) prior
to becoming a party to this Agreement; (y) upon a Change in Law or circumstances requiring or
making appropriate a new or additional form, certificate or other documentation; and (z) whenever
reasonably requested by any of the Borrowers or the Agent. If the forms referred to above in this
Section 2.14(c) that are provided by a Lender indicate a withholding tax rate in excess of zero on
payments under this Agreement to be received by such Lender from a Borrower organized in a Covered
Jurisdiction, unless and to the extent attributable to a Change in Law, such withholding tax at
such rate shall be treated as Excluded Taxes unless and until such Lender provides all such forms,
duly completed and delivered, establishing that a lesser rate applies, whereupon such withholding
tax at such lesser rate shall be considered Excluded Taxes solely for the periods governed by such
form. If the forms referred to above in this Section 2.14(c) that are provided by a Lender
indicate a withholding tax rate in excess of zero on payments under this Agreement to be received
by such Lender from a Borrower that is not organized in a Covered Jurisdiction, such withholding
tax at such rate shall be considered Non-Excluded Taxes. If, on the date a Lender assigns all or a
portion of its commitments under this Agreement, such Lender assignor was entitled to additional
amounts under Section 2.14(a), then the related Lender assignee shall be entitled to additional
amounts solely to the extent that amounts payable to such Lender assignee are themselves subject to
a withholding tax imposed as a direct result of a Change in Law occurring after the date on which
the Lender assignor became a party to this Agreement. Any additional Taxes imposed on any Lender
as a direct result of a change in the Applicable Lending Office of such Lender shall be considered
Excluded Taxes except to the extent that (I) any such additional Non-Excluded Taxes are imposed as
a result of a Change in Law occurring after the date of change of its Applicable Lending Office, or
(II) such change is made at the request of P G in which case the additional Non-Excluded Taxes
shall be treated as Non-Excluded Taxes imposed by reason of a Change in Law and indemnified
pursuant to subsection (a) above.

(d) Should any Lender or the Agent become subject to Taxes because of its failure to deliver a
form required hereunder, the appropriate Borrower shall, at the Agent s or such Lender s sole
expense, take such steps (consistent with legal and regulatory restrictions) as such Lender or the
Agent shall reasonably request to assist such Person in recovering such Taxes from the proper
governmental or regulatory authority. However, none of the Borrowers will be required to take any
action that would be inadvisable or overly burdensome.

(e) Each Lender and the Agent hereby agrees that, upon the occurrence of any circumstances
entitling such Person to any additional amounts under Section 2.14(a) or to indemnification under
Section 2.14(b), such Lender or the Agent shall use its best efforts (consistent with its internal
policy and legal and regulatory restrictions), at its own expense, to designate a different
Applicable Lending Office if
the making of such a change would avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, any such
additional amounts or indemnification that may thereafter accrue.

-28- 

(f) If any Lender or the Agent entitled to additional compensation under any of the foregoing
provisions of this Section 2.14 shall fail to designate a different Applicable Lending Office that
avoids the need for additional compensation as provided in Section 2.14, then P G may cause such
Lender or the Agent to (and, if P G so demands, such Lender or the Agent shall) assign all of its
rights and obligations under this Agreement to one or more other Persons identified by any Borrower
in the manner provided in Section 8.11.

(g) If any Lender or the Agent determines that it has received a refund of or credit against
any Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by any Borrower or with respect to which any Borrower
has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section 2.14, it shall pay over such refund or credit
to Borrower (but only to the extent of amounts paid by such Borrower under this Section 2.14), net
of all out-of-pocket expenses of such Lender or the Agent and without interest (other than any
interest paid by the relevant governmental or regulatory authority with respect to such refund or
credit);  provided ,  however , that such Borrower, upon the request of such Lender or the Agent,
agrees to repay the amount paid over to such Borrower to such Lender or the Agent in the event such
Lender or the Agent is required to repay such refund to such governmental authority or such credit
is subsequently denied. Nothing in this Section 2.14(g) shall be deemed to require the Agent or
any Lender to provide copies of tax returns or other confidential tax information.

(i) Each Lender and the Agent shall take all actions reasonably requested by any Borrower to
assist such Borrower, at the sole expense of such Borrower, to recover from the relevant taxation
authority or other governmental authority any Taxes in respect of which amounts were paid by such
Borrower pursuant to Section 2.14(a) or Section 2.14(b).

SECTION 2.15  Sharing of Payments, Etc. 

If any Lender shall obtain any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise
of any right of set-off, or otherwise) on account of the Revolving Credit Advances owing to it
(other than pursuant to Section 2.11, 2.14 or 8.04(c) or as payment to a Non-Consenting Lender on
the Termination Date in accordance with Section 2.06) in excess of its ratable share of payments on
account of the Revolving Credit Advances or participations obtained by all the Lenders, such Lender
shall forthwith purchase from the other Lenders such participations in the Revolving Credit
Advances owing to them as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Lender to share the excess
payment ratably with each of them;  provided ,  however , that if all or any portion of such excess
payment is thereafter recovered from such purchasing Lender, such purchase from each Lender shall
be rescinded and such Lender shall repay to the purchasing Lender the purchase price to the extent
of such recovery together with an amount equal to such Lender s ratable share (according to the
proportion of (i) the amount of such Lender s required repayment to (ii) the total amount so
recovered from the purchasing Lender) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the
purchasing Lender in respect of the total amount so recovered. Each of the Borrowers agrees that
any Lender so purchasing a participation from another Lender pursuant to this Section 2.15 may, to
the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of
set-off) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were the direct creditor of
such Borrower in the amount of such participation.

SECTION 2.16  Use of Proceeds .

The proceeds of the Advances shall be available (and each Borrower agrees that it shall use
such proceeds) for general corporate purposes of P G and its Subsidiaries, including to finance
acquisitions and providing backup liquidity to support the issuance of commercial paper.

-29- 

SECTION 2.17  Evidence of Debt .

(a) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts
evidencing the indebtedness of each Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Advance owing to
such Lender from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to
such Lender from time to time on account thereof. Each Borrower agrees that upon notice by any
Lender to such Borrower (with a copy of such notice to the Agent) to the effect that a promissory
note or other evidence of indebtedness is required or appropriate in order for such Lender to
evidence (whether for purposes of pledge, enforcement or otherwise) the Revolving Credit Advances
owing to, or to be made by, such Lender, such Borrower shall promptly execute and deliver to such
Lender promissory notes of such Borrower payable to the order of such Lender, in substantially the
forms of  Exhibit F-1  hereto (a   Tranche A Note  ), and of  Exhibit F-2  hereto
(a   Tranche B Note  ), in a principal amount equal to the respective Tranche A Commitment
and Tranche B Commitment, respectively, of such Lender.

(b) The Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 8.07(d) shall include a control
account, and a subsidiary account for each Lender, in which accounts (taken together) shall be
recorded (i) the date and amount of each Borrowing made hereunder, the Type of Advances comprising
such Borrowing, whether such Advances are Tranche A Advances or Tranche B Advances and, if
appropriate, the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the terms of each Assignment and
Acceptance delivered to and accepted by it, (iii) the amount of any principal or interest due and
payable or to become due and payable from each Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iv) the
amount of any sum received by the Agent from such Borrower hereunder and each Lender s share
thereof.

(c) Entries made in good faith by the Agent in the Register pursuant to subsection (b) above,
and by each Lender in its account or accounts pursuant to subsection (a) above, shall be prima
facie evidence of the amount of principal and interest due and payable or to become due and payable
from each Borrower to, in the case of the Register, each Lender and, in the case of such account or
accounts, such Lender, under this Agreement, absent manifest error;  provided ,  however , that the
failure of the Agent or such Lender to make an entry, or any finding that an entry is incorrect, in
the Register or such account or accounts shall not limit or otherwise affect the obligations of any
Borrower under this Agreement.

SECTION 2.18  Call Right of Affiliates .

Any Affiliate of a Borrower may upon at least one Business Day s notice to the Agent, state
the proposed date and aggregate principal amount of the purchase, and, if such notice is given,
such Affiliate shall, purchase from the Lenders at par the outstanding principal amount of Tranche
A Advances or Tranche B Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing in whole or in part, and
assume from the Lenders Tranche A Commitments or Tranche B Commitments, as the case may be, in an
amount at least equal to the principal amount of the Advances so purchased;  provided  that P G, in
its sole discretion, may elect to effect such purchase on a non-ratable basis with respect to the
Advances and Commitments under the applicable Facility held by one or more Lenders that are
Affiliates of a Borrower (it being understood that such purchase shall be on a ratable basis as to
all other Lenders). After giving effect to each such purchase, the purchasing Affiliate shall be
treated as a Lender to the extent of the rights and obligations so purchased, except as otherwise
expressly set forth herein. Each purchase made pursuant to this Section 2.18 shall also be subject
to Section 8.07(a).

SECTION 2.19  Put Right of Affiliates .

Any Lender that is an Affiliate of a Borrower shall be entitled upon at least two Business
Day s notice to the Agent, to sell and assign to the other Lenders, and each of the Lenders
irrevocably agrees to purchase, at par all or a portion of the outstanding Tranche A Advances or
Tranche B Advances owing to

-30- 

such Affiliate of the Borrower, and to assign to the other Lenders
Tranche A Commitments or Tranche B Commitments, as the case may be, in an amount at least equal to
the principal amount of the Advances so sold and assigned;  provided  that each such sale and
assignment shall be made to the other Lenders (based on their respective Commitments under the
applicable Facility);  provided, further,  that P G, in its sole discretion, may elect to effect such
sale and assignment on a non-ratable basis with respect to the Advances and Commitments under the
applicable Facility held by one or more Lenders that are Affiliates of a Borrower (it being
understood that such sale and assignment shall be on a ratable basis as to all other Lenders). Any
notice delivered by a Lender that is an Affiliate of a Borrower pursuant to this Section 2.19 shall
specify (i) the effective date of such sale and assignment and (ii) the amount of Revolving Credit
Advances under each Facility subject to each such sale and assignment. After giving effect to each
such sale and assignment, the selling Affiliate shall cease to be a Lender to the extent of the
right and obligations so sold and assigned. On or promptly following the effective date of any
sale and assignment pursuant to this Section 2.19, the Agent shall notify the Lenders of the
effective date thereof and shall distribute a revised Schedule II hereto reflecting each such sale
and assignment.

SECTION 2.20  Extension of Facility .

(a) P G, by written notice to the Agent, may request an extension of the maturity of all
Revolving Credit Advances outstanding on the Scheduled Termination Date by one year or two years
(as selected by P G) from its then scheduled expiration during which time all outstanding Advances
on such Scheduled Termination Date shall convert into term loans;  provided  that such request is
made at least 30 days, but not more than 60 days, prior to the Scheduled Termination Date. The
Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of such request, and each Lender shall, in turn, in its
sole discretion, not earlier than 30 days but not later than 20 days prior to the Scheduled
Termination Date, notify P G and the Agent in writing as to whether such Lender will consent to
such extension, such notice to be in substantially the form of  Exhibit G  hereto. If any
Lender shall fail to notify the Agent and P G in writing of its consent to any such request for
extension of the Scheduled Termination Date at least 20 days prior to the Scheduled Termination
Date, such Lender shall be deemed to be a Non-Consenting Lender with respect to such request. The
Agent shall notify P G in writing not later than 15 days prior to the Scheduled Termination Date of
the decision of the Lenders regarding P G s request for an extension of the Scheduled Termination
Date.

(b) If all the Lenders consent in writing to any such request in accordance with subsection
(a) of this Section 2.20, the Scheduled Termination Date shall, effective as of such date, be
extended for the one or two year period selected by P G in its initial request;  provided  that no
Default shall have occurred and be continuing. If fewer than all of the Lenders consent in writing
to any such request in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.20, the maturity of the
Revolving Credit Advances outstanding on the Scheduled Termination Date shall, effective as of such
date, be extended as to those Lenders that so consented (each a   Consenting Lender  ) but
shall not be extended as to any other Lender (each a   Non-Consenting Lender  ). To the
extent that the maturity of the Revolving Credit Advances outstanding on the Scheduled Termination
Date is not extended as to any Lender pursuant to this Section 2.20 and the Commitment of such
Lender is not assumed in accordance with subsection (c) of this Section 2.20 on or prior to the
Scheduled Termination Date, the Commitment of such Non-Consenting Lender shall automatically
terminate in whole on the Scheduled Termination Date without any further notice or other action by
P G, the Agent, such Lender or any other Person;  provided  that such Non-Consenting Lender s rights
under Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 8.04, and its obligations under Section 7.05, shall survive the
Scheduled Termination Date for such Lender as to matters occurring prior to such date. It is
understood and agreed that no Lender shall have any obligation whatsoever to agree to any request
made by P G for any requested extension of the Scheduled Termination Date.

-31- 

(c) If fewer than all of the Lenders consent to any such request pursuant to subsection (a) of
this Section 2.20, the Agent shall promptly so notify the Consenting Lenders, and each Consenting
Lender may, in its sole discretion, give written notice to the Agent not later than 10 days prior
to the Scheduled Termination Date of the amount of the Non-Consenting Lenders  Commitments for
which it is willing to accept an assignment. If the Consenting Lenders notify the Agent that they
are willing to accept assignments of Commitments in an aggregate amount that exceeds the amount of
the Commitments of the Non-Consenting Lenders, such Commitments shall be allocated among the
Consenting Lenders willing to accept such assignments in such amounts as are agreed between P G and
the Agent. If after giving effect to the assignments of Commitments described above there remain
any Commitments of Non-Consenting Lenders, P G may arrange for one or more Consenting Lenders or
other Persons that agree to an extension of the Termination Date (each, an   Assuming Extending
Lender  ) to assume, effective as of the Extension Date, any Non-Consenting Lender s Commitment
and all of the obligations of such Non-Consenting Lender under this Agreement thereafter arising,
without expense to such Non-Consenting Lender;  provided ,  however , that the amount of the Commitment
of any such Assuming Extending Lender as a result of such substitution shall in no event be less
than $10,000,000 unless the amount of the Commitment of such Non-Consenting Lender is less than
$10,000,000, in which case such Assuming Extending Lender shall assume all of such lesser amount;
and  provided ,  further  that:

(i) any such Consenting Lender or Assuming Extending Lender shall have paid to such
Non-Consenting Lender (A) the aggregate principal amount of, and any interest accrued and
unpaid to the effective date of the assignment on, the outstanding Advances, if any, of such
Non-Consenting Lender  plus  (B) any accrued but unpaid facility fees owing to such
Non-Consenting Lender as of the effective date of such assignment; and

(ii) all additional costs, reimbursements, expense reimbursements and indemnities
payable to such Non-Consenting Lender, and all other accrued and unpaid amounts owing to
such Non-Consenting Lender hereunder, as of the effective date of such assignment shall have
been paid to such Non-Consenting Lender.

At least one Business Day prior to any Extension Date, (A) each such Assuming Extending Lender that
was not a Lender prior to the Extension Date, if any, shall have delivered to P G and the Agent an
Assignment and Acceptance, duly executed by such Assuming Extending Lender, such non-Consenting
Lender, P G and the Agent, (B) any such Consenting Lender shall have delivered confirmation in
writing satisfactory to P G and the Agent as to the increase in the amount of its Commitment, and
(C) each Non-Consenting Lender being replaced pursuant to this Section 2.20 shall have delivered to
the Agent any Note or Notes held by such Non-Consenting Lender. Upon the payment or prepayment of
all amounts referred to in subsections (i), (ii) and (iii) of this Section 2.20(c), each such
Consenting Lender or Assuming Extending Lender, as of the Extension Date, will be substituted for
such Non-Consenting Lender under this Agreement and shall be a Lender for all purposes of this
Agreement, without any further acknowledgment by or the consent of the other Lenders, and, except
as otherwise provided above, the obligations of each such Non-Consenting Lender hereunder shall, by
the provisions hereof, be released and discharged.

(d) This Section 2.20 shall supersede any provisions of this Agreement (including, without
limitation, Section 2.15 or 8.01) or any of the other Loan Documents to the contrary.

-32- 

ARTICLE III

CONDITIONS TO EFFECTIVENESS AND LENDING

SECTION 3.01  Conditions Precedent to Initial Borrowing .

The initial Borrowing of Advances under this Agreement shall be made on and as of the first
date (the   Closing Date  ) on which the following conditions precedent have been satisfied:

(a) All amounts owing by the Initial Borrower under the Existing Credit Agreement shall have
been, or concurrently with the initial Borrowing hereunder shall be, paid in full, and all
commitments of the lenders thereunder shall have been, or concurrently with the initial Borrowing
hereunder shall be, terminated in accordance with the terms of the Existing Credit Agreement.

(b) The Initial Borrower shall have paid all accrued fees and expenses of the Agent (including
reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to the Agent).

(c) On the Closing Date, the Agent shall have received for the account of each Lender a
certificate signed by a duly authorized representative of the Initial Borrower, dated the Closing
Date, stating that:

(i) The representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 are correct in all
material respects on and as of the Closing Date, and

(ii) No event has occurred and is continuing that constitutes a Default.

(d) The Agent shall have received on or before the Closing Date the following, each dated such
date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent and in sufficient copies for each Lender:

(i) Certified copies of each of the charter or other organizational documents of the
Initial Borrower and of resolutions of the Initial Borrower approving this Agreement and of
all documents evidencing other necessary corporate action with respect to this Agreement.

(ii) A certificate of an authorized representative of the Initial Borrower certifying
the names and true signatures of the other authorized representatives of the Initial
Borrower authorized to sign this Agreement and the other documents to be delivered
hereunder.

(iii)  Intentionally Omitted .

(iv) Favorable written opinions of counsel for the Initial Borrower, in the form of
(A)  Exhibit C-1  hereto from Luxembourg counsel to the Initial Borrower,
(B)  Exhibit C-2  hereto from the Initial Borrower s special counsel, and
(C)  Exhibit C-3  hereto from Cadwalader, Wickersham   Taft LLP, special counsel to
the Initial Borrower.

(v) A favorable opinion of Shearman   Sterling LLP, counsel for the Agent, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Agent.

-33- 

SECTION 3.02  Conditions Precedent to Each Borrowing .

The obligation of each Lender to make any Advance on the occasion of each Borrowing (other
than any deemed Revolving Credit Borrowing pursuant to Section 2.04(b) or Section 2.07(c)) shall be
subject to the conditions precedent that:

(a) on the date of such Borrowing the following statements shall be true (and each of the
giving of the applicable Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing or Notice of Competitive Bid
Borrowing, as applicable, and the acceptance by any Borrower of the proceeds of such Borrowing
shall constitute a representation and warranty by the applicable Borrower that on the date of such
Borrowing such statements are true):

(i) the representations and warranties of P G and, if applicable, such Borrower,
contained in Section 4.01 (except the representations set forth in subsection (e) thereof
and in subsection (f) thereof) are correct in all material respects on and as of the date of
such Borrowing, before and after giving effect to such Borrowing and to the application of
the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date; and

(ii) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Borrowing or
from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default; and

(b) the Agent shall have received such other approvals, opinions or documents as the Required
Lenders through the Agent may reasonably request.

SECTION 3.03  Determinations Under Section 3.01 .

For purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in Section 3.01, each
Lender shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with each
document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or
satisfactory to the Lenders unless an officer of the Agent responsible for the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the Closing
Date specifying its objection thereto.

ARTICLE IV

REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

SECTION 4.01  Representations and Warranties of the Borrowers .

Each of the Borrowers represents and warrants as to itself as follows:

(a) Such Borrower is a corporation, general partnership or limited liability company duly
organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its
incorporation or formation and is duly qualified and in good standing in each jurisdiction wherein
the failure to so qualify would have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or
results of operations of such Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole. Each of the
Subsidiaries of such Borrower is duly organized and validly existing under the laws of its
jurisdiction of incorporation or formation.

(b) The execution, delivery and performance by such Borrower of each Loan Document to which it
is a party delivered hereunder, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, are
within their respective corporate or other similar organization powers, have been duly authorized
by all necessary corporate or other similar organization action, and do not contravene (i) their
respective

-34- 

charter, by-laws or other organizational documents or (ii) law or any material contractual
restriction binding on or affecting such Borrower.

(c) No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any
governmental authority or regulatory body or any other third party is required for the due
execution, delivery and performance by such Borrower of this Agreement or any other Loan Document
to which it is a party, except for any such authorizations, approvals, actions, notices or filings
as have already been made or obtained and are in full force and effect.

(d) This Agreement has been, and each other Loan Document when delivered hereunder will have
been, duly executed and delivered by such Borrower party thereto. This Agreement is, and each
other Loan Document to which it is a party when delivered hereunder will be, the legal, valid and
binding obligation of such Borrower, enforceable against it in accordance with their respective
terms.

(e) Except as disclosed in writing to the Agent prior to the Closing Date, since December 31,
2006, there has been no Material Adverse Change.

(f) There is no pending or overtly threatened action, suit, investigation, litigation or
proceeding affecting such Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency
or arbitrator that could reasonably be expected to adversely affect the legality, validity or
enforceability of any Loan Document or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.

(g) Such Borrower is not engaged in the business of extending credit for the purpose of
purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System).

(h) Following application of the proceeds of each Advance, not more than 25% of the value of
the assets (either of the Borrowers only or of the Borrowers and their Subsidiaries, taken as a
whole) subject to the provisions of Section 5.02(a) will be margin stock (within the meaning of
Regulation U issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System).

(i) All written information (other than financial information, projections, estimates and
other forward looking statements) heretofore furnished by such Borrower to the Lenders for purposes
of or in connection with this Agreement or any transaction contemplated hereby, taken as a whole,
in each case as such written information may be amended, modified or supplemented by it from time
to time, is correct in all material respects and does not omit to state any material fact or any
fact necessary to make the statements contained therein not materially misleading in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made.

(j) Such Borrower is not an  investment company , or a company  controlled  by an  investment
company , within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.

(k) All of the Advances and other obligations owing by such Borrower to the Agent and the
Lenders under this Agreement and the Notes, if any, rank  pari passu  or senior to all of its other
senior unsecured indebtedness for money borrowed.

-35- 

ARTICLE V

COVENANTS OF P G

SECTION 5.01  Affirmative Covenants .

So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Revolving Credit
Commitment hereunder, P G will, in the case of clause (d) of this Section 5.01, and each of the
Borrowers will, in all other cases under this Section:

(a)  Compliance with Laws, Etc.  Comply, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to comply,
in all material respects, with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders, except where the
failure to so comply would not have a Material Adverse Effect.

(b)  Payment of Taxes, Etc.  Pay and discharge, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to
pay and discharge, before the same shall become delinquent, (i) all material taxes, assessments and
governmental charges or levies imposed upon it or upon its property and (ii) all material lawful
claims that, if unpaid, might by law become a Mortgage upon its property;  provided ,  however , that
none of the Borrowers or the Subsidiaries of a Borrower shall be required to pay or discharge any
such tax, assessment, charge, levy or claim that is being contested in good faith and by proper
proceedings and as to which appropriate reserves are being maintained, unless and until any
Mortgage resulting therefrom attaches to its property and proper enforcement, collection,
execution, levy or foreclosure proceedings shall have been commenced with respect thereto.

(c)  Preservation of Corporate Existence, Etc.  Preserve and maintain, and cause each
of its Subsidiaries to preserve and maintain, its existence as a corporation, general partnership
or limited liability company, as applicable, its rights (charter and statutory) and franchises;
 provided ,  however , that (i) each of the Borrowers and each of their respective Subsidiaries may
consummate any merger, consolidation or transfer, sale or lease of its assets as an entirety to any
Person not prohibited under Section 5.02(b), (ii) each of the Borrowers and each of their
respective Subsidiaries may wind up, liquidate or dissolve any inactive or immaterial Subsidiary of
such Person, (iii) none of the Borrowers or the Subsidiaries of a Borrower shall be required to
preserve any right or franchise if the Board of Directors of such Borrower or such Subsidiary shall
determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of
P G and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any
material respect to P G and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or the Lenders, and (iv) each of
the Borrowers and each of their respective Subsidiaries may reincorporate or otherwise change its
legal form so long as (A) the applicable Borrower provides written notice thereof to the Agent
reasonably promptly following such reincorporation or change (together with certified copies of
each amended charter or other organizational document), and (B) such reincorporation or change
would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.

(d)  Reporting Requirements . Deliver to the Agent (for distribution by the Agent to
the Lenders):

(i) within the time periods specified in the rules and regulations of the Securities
and Exchange Commission, but only for so long as P G is subject to the periodic reporting
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, a Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of P G and an Annual
Report on Form 10-K for each fiscal year of P 

-36- 

(ii) as soon as possible and in any event within five days after the occurrence of each
Default continuing on the date of such statement, a statement of any Borrower setting forth
details of such Default and the action that one or more of P G and its Subsidiaries has
taken and propose to take with respect thereto;

(iii) promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all reports that P G
sends to any of its security holders, and copies of all reports and registration statements
that P G files with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any national securities
exchange;

(iv) promptly after the commencement thereof, notice of all actions and proceedings
before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator affecting any of the Borrowers or any of
their Subsidiaries of the type described in Section 4.01(f); and

(v) such other information respecting any of the Borrowers or any of their Subsidiaries
as the Required Lenders through the Agent may from time to time reasonably request;

provided ,  however , that in the case of clauses (i) and (iii) of this subsection (d), P G may comply
with its obligations thereunder by posting the relevant documents to its website, to any of the
other Borrowers  websites, to  www.sec.gov , or to such other website as notified to the
Agent and the Lenders in lieu of delivering hard copies thereof to the Lenders.

SECTION 5.02  Negative Covenants .

So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Revolving Credit
Commitment hereunder, P G shall not:

(a)  Restrictions on Mortgages . Incur, assume or guarantee, or permit any of its
Subsidiaries to incur, assume or guarantee, any Debt (other than the Advances, if applicable)
secured by a Mortgage on any Principal Manufacturing Property or on any Debt of any of its
Subsidiaries unless such Borrower secures, or causes such Subsidiary to secure, the Advances
equally and ratably with (or prior to) such Debt for so long as such Debt is secured;  provided ,
 however , that the Borrowers shall not be required to so secure, or cause any of its Subsidiaries to
so secure, the Advances as provided in this Section 5.02(a) if after giving effect thereto the
aggregate amount of all such Debt so secured would not exceed 20% of Consolidated Assets of P G and
its Subsidiaries at the time of such incurrence, assumption or guarantee. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, this Section 5.02(a) shall not apply to, and there shall be excluded in computing
secured Debt for the purposes of this Section 5.02(a):

(i) Permitted Mortgages;

(ii) Mortgages existing as of the date hereof;

(iii) Mortgages granted in favor of P G, any of the Borrowers or any of their
Subsidiaries on all or any portion of the assets of P G and its Subsidiaries;

(iv) Mortgages arising solely from precautionary filings of financing statements under
the Uniform Commercial Code of any jurisdiction (or similar filings and recordings under
equivalent provisions of applicable law);

(v) any Mortgages existing on any Principal Manufacturing Property or Debt at the time
such Principal Manufacturing Property or Debt is acquired by any Borrower or any of its

-37- 

Subsidiaries, or on any Principal Manufacturing Property or Debt of any Person at the
time such Person becomes, or is merged into, P G or any of its Subsidiaries;

(vi) purchase money and title retention Mortgages, capitalized leases and construction-
or improvement-cost Mortgages and other similar Mortgages; and

(vii) any extension, refinancing, renewal or refunding of any Mortgage referred to in
clauses (i) through (vi) of this Section 5.02(a).

(b)  Consolidation, Merger and Sale of Assets . Consolidate or merge with or into, or
transfer, sell or lease its assets as an entirety to, any Person, unless the Person (if other than
a Borrower or a Subsidiary of P G) formed by such consolidation or into which such Borrower is
merged or which acquires or leases the assets of such Borrower substantially as an entirety assumes
such Borrower s obligations under the Loan Documents (and, upon such assumption, such Person shall
be a Borrower for all purposes of the Loan Documents), or another Borrower assumes such Borrower s
obligations under the Loan Documents;  provided , that after giving effect to such transaction, no
Default shall have occurred and be continuing, and such consolidation, merger, transfer, sale or
lease of assets shall not be prohibited under the indentures pursuant to which any publicly held
debt of such Borrower was issued.

ARTICLE VI

EVENTS OF DEFAULT

SECTION 6.01  Events of Default .

Each of the following events shall constitute an  Event of Default  under this Agreement:

(a) Any Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Advance when the same becomes due and
payable; or any Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Advance or make any other payment of
fees payable under this Agreement or any Note within 10 days after the same becomes due and
payable; or any Borrower shall fail to make any payment of any other amount payable under any Loan
Document, or P G shall fail to make any payment of any other amount payable under the P G Guaranty,
within 10 days after the same becomes due and payable; or

(b) Any representation or warranty made by any Borrower (or any of its authorized
representatives) under or in connection with this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents
shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made; or

(c) (i) Any Borrower shall fail to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement
contained in Section 5.01(c) or Section 5.01(d) (other than clauses (d)(i) or (d)(iii)), or
(ii) any Borrower shall fail to perform or observe any other term, covenant or agreement contained
in this Agreement or any of the Loan Documents on its part to be performed or observed if, in the
case of this clause (ii), such failure shall remain unremedied for 30 days after written notice
thereof shall have been given to P G by the Agent or any Lender; or

(d) Any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall admit in writing its inability to pay its
debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or any proceeding
shall be instituted by or against any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries seeking to adjudicate it
a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement,
adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to
bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for
relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee,

-38- 

custodian or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its property and, in
the case of any such proceeding instituted against it (but not instituted by it), either such
proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 90 days, or any of the actions
sought in such proceeding (including, without limitation, the entry of an order for relief against,
or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, it or for any
substantial part of its property) shall occur; or any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall
take any corporate or other action to authorize any of the actions set forth above in this
subsection (d); or

(e) Any judgment or order for the payment of money in excess of $250,000,000 shall be rendered
against any Borrower or any of the Material Subsidiaries and not satisfied and there shall be any
period of 60 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such unsatisfied judgment or
order, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect;  provided ,  however , that
the rendering of any such judgment or order shall not be an Event of Default under this
Section 6.01(e) if and for so long as (i) the amount of such judgment or order, or a portion
thereof in an amount sufficient to reduce the total uninsured amount to an amount less than
$250,000,000, is covered by a valid and binding policy of insurance between the defendant and the
insurer covering payment thereof and (ii) such insurer, which shall be rated at least  A  by A.M.
Best Company, has been notified of, and has not properly disputed the claim made for payment of,
the amount of such judgment or order.

SECTION 6.02  Remedies .

(a) If any Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, then, and in any such event, the
Agent (i) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by notice to each
of the Borrowers, declare the obligation of each Lender to make Advances to be terminated,
whereupon the obligation of each Lender to make such Advances shall forthwith terminate, and
(ii) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by notice to each of
the Borrowers, declare the Advances, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable under this
Agreement to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the Advances, all such interest and all such
amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or
further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by each of the Borrowers.

(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in clause (a) of this Section 6.02, in the event
of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to any Borrower under the Federal
Bankruptcy Code, (i) the obligation of each Lender to make Advances to such Borrower shall
automatically be terminated and (ii) the Advances made to such Borrower, all interest thereon and
all amounts payable under this Agreement with respect thereto shall automatically become and be due
and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are
hereby expressly waived by each of the Borrowers.

ARTICLE VII

THE AGENT

SECTION 7.01  Authorization and Action .

Each Lender hereby appoints and authorizes the Agent to take such action as agent on its
behalf and to exercise such powers and discretion under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents
as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof and thereof, together with such powers and
discretion as are reasonably incidental thereto. As to any matters not expressly provided for by
this Agreement or the other Loan Documents (including, without limitation, enforcement or
collection of the Advances), the Agent shall not be required to exercise any discretion or take any
action, but shall be required to act or to

-39- 

refrain from acting (and shall be fully protected in so acting or refraining from acting) upon
the instructions of the Required Lenders, and such instructions shall be binding upon all Lenders
and all holders of Notes;  provided ,  however , that the Agent shall not be required to take any
action that exposes the Agent to personal liability or that is contrary to this Agreement or the
other Loan Documents applicable law. The Agent agrees to give to each Lender prompt notice of each
notice given to it by each of the Borrowers pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or the other
Loan Documents.

SECTION 7.02  Agent s Reliance, Etc. 

Neither the Agent nor any of its directors, officers, agents or employees shall be liable for
any action taken or omitted to be taken by it or them under or in connection with this Agreement or
any of the other Loan Documents, except for its or their own negligence or willful misconduct.
Without limitation of the generality of the foregoing, the Agent: (i) may treat the Lender that
made any Advance as the holder of the Debt resulting therefrom until the Agent receives and accepts
an Assignment and Acceptance entered into by such Lender, as assignor, and any assignee thereof as
provided in Section 8.07; (ii) may consult with legal counsel (including counsel for any of the
Borrowers), independent public accountants and other experts selected by it and shall not be liable
for any action taken or omitted to be taken in good faith (without negligence or willful
misconduct) by it in accordance with the advice of such counsel, accountants or experts;
(iii) makes no warranty or representation to any Lender and shall not be responsible to any Lender
for any statements, warranties or representations (whether written or oral) made in or in
connection with this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents; (iv) shall not have any duty to
ascertain or to inquire as to the performance or observance of any of the terms, covenants or
conditions of this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents on the part of any of the Borrowers
or to inspect the property (including the books and records) of any of the Borrowers; (v) shall not
be responsible to any Lender for the due execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness
or sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents or any other
instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or thereto; and (vi) shall incur no liability
under or in respect of this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents by acting in good faith
upon any notice, consent, certificate or other instrument or writing (which may be by telecopier or
telegram) believed by it to be genuine and signed or sent by the proper party or parties.

SECTION 7.03  Citibank and Affiliates .

With respect to its Commitment, the Advances made by it and any Note or Notes issued to it,
Citibank shall have the same rights and powers under this Agreement as any other Lender and may
exercise the same as though it were not the Agent; and the term   Lender   or
  Lenders   shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated, include Citibank in its individual
capacity. Citibank and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as trustee
under indentures of, accept investment banking engagements from and generally engage in any kind of
business with, any of the Borrowers, any of their Subsidiaries and any Person who may do business
with or own securities of any of the Borrowers or their Subsidiaries, all as if Citibank were not
the Agent and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.

SECTION 7.04  Lender Credit Decision .

Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any
other Lender and based on the financial statements delivered to the Agent in accordance with this
Agreement and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own
credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it
will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender and based on such
documents and

-40- 

information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit
decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement.

SECTION 7.05  Indemnification .

The Lenders agree to indemnify the Agent (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrowers),
ratably according to the respective principal amounts of the Advances then owing to each of them
(or if no Advances are at the time outstanding or if any Advances are then owing to Persons that
are not Lenders, ratably according to the respective amounts of their Commitments), from and
against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments,
suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever that may be imposed on,
incurred by, or asserted against the Agent in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement
or any of the other Loan Documents or any action taken or omitted by the Agent hereunder or
thereunder (collectively, the   Indemnified Costs  ),  provided  that no Lender shall be liable
for any portion of the Indemnified Costs resulting from the Agent s negligence or willful
misconduct. Without limitation of the foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse the Agent
promptly upon demand for its ratable share of any out-of-pocket expenses (including counsel fees)
incurred by the Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration,
modification, amendment or enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or
otherwise) of, or legal advice in respect of rights or responsibilities under, this Agreement, to
the extent that the Agent is not reimbursed for such expenses by the Borrowers. In the case of any
investigation, litigation or proceeding giving rise to any Indemnified Costs, this Section 7.05
applies whether any such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by the Agent, any
Lender or a third party.

SECTION 7.06  Successor Agent .

The Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Lenders and each of
the Borrowers and may be removed at any time with or without cause by the Required Lenders. Upon
any such resignation or removal, the Required Lenders shall have the right to appoint a successor
Agent acceptable to P G. If no successor Agent shall have been so appointed by the Required
Lenders and approved by P G, and shall have accepted such appointment, within 30 days after the
retiring Agent s giving of notice of resignation or the Required Lenders  removal of the retiring
Agent, then the retiring Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Agent, which
shall be a commercial bank organized under the laws of the United States of America or of any State
thereof and having a combined capital and surplus of at least $500,000,000. Upon the acceptance of
any appointment as Agent hereunder by a successor Agent, such successor Agent shall thereupon
succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, discretion, privileges and duties of the
retiring Agent, and the retiring Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations under
this Agreement and the other Loan Documents. After any retiring Agent s resignation or removal
hereunder as Agent, the provisions of this Article VII shall inure to its benefit as to any actions
taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Agent under this Agreement and the other Loan
Documents.

SECTION 7.07  Sub-Agent .

The Sub-Agent has been designated under this Agreement to carry out the duties of the Agent.
The Sub-Agent shall be subject to each of the obligations in this Agreement to be performed by the
Sub-Agent, and each of the Borrowers and the Lenders agrees that the Sub-Agent shall be entitled to
exercise each of the rights and shall be entitled to each of the benefits of the Agent under this
Agreement as such rights and benefits relate to the performance of its obligations hereunder.

-41- 

SECTION 7.08  Other Agents .

Each Lender hereby acknowledges that no syndication agent and no documentation agent nor any
other Lender designated as any  agent  (other than the Agent and the Sub-Agent) on the signature
pages or the cover hereof has any liability hereunder other than in its capacity as a Lender.

ARTICLE VIII

MISCELLANEOUS

SECTION 8.01  Amendments, Etc. 

No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents,
nor consent to any departure by any Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the
same shall be in writing and signed by P G and the Required Lenders, and then such waiver or
consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which
given;  provided ,  however , that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed
by all the Borrowers and all of the Lenders (other than any Lender that is an Affiliate of any
Borrower), do any of the following: (a) waive any of the conditions specified in Section 3.01,
(b) increase the Commitments of the Lenders or postpone the Termination Date (other than as
provided in Section 2.20), (c) reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Revolving Credit
Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, (d) postpone any scheduled date for any
payment of principal of, or interest on, the Revolving Credit Advances or any fees or other amounts
payable hereunder pursuant to Section 2.04, 2.06 or 2.07 (other than as provided in Section 2.20),
(e) change the percentage of the Commitments or of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the
Revolving Credit Advances, or the number of Lenders, that shall be required for the Lenders or any
of them to take any action hereunder, or (f) amend this Section 8.01;  provided further  that no
amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Agent in addition to the
Lenders required above to take such action, affect the rights or duties of the Agent under this
Agreement or any other Loan Document.

SECTION 8.02  Notices, Etc. 

(a) All notices and other communications provided for hereunder shall be either (x) in writing
(including telecopier communication) and mailed, telecopied or delivered, or (y) to the extent set
forth in Section 8.02(b) and in the proviso to this Section 8.02(a), by electronic mail (in .PDF
form) (  Email  ), confirmed reasonably promptly thereafter in writing, if to any Borrower
party hereto on the Closing Date, at the address of such Person set forth on the signature pages
hereto; if to any Additional Borrower, to such Person at the address specified therefor in the
applicable Borrower Accession Agreement; if to any Initial Lender, at its Domestic Lending Office
specified opposite its name on Schedule I hereto; if to any other Lender, at its Domestic Lending
Office specified in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender, as the case
may be; and if to the Agent, at its address at Two Penns Way, New Castle, Delaware 19720; or, as to
any Borrower or the Agent, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a written
notice to the other parties and, as to each other party, at such other address as shall be
designated by such party in a written notice to each of the Borrowers and the Agent;  provided,  that
Notices of Revolving Credit Borrowing, Notices of Competitive Bid Borrowing and materials delivered
pursuant to Section 5.01(d)(i) and (d)(iii) shall be delivered to the Agent as specified in
Section 8.02(b) or as otherwise specified to P G by the Agent. All such notices and communications
shall, when mailed, telecopied or Emailed, be effective when deposited in the mails, telecopied or
confirmed by Email, respectively, except that notices and communications to the Agent pursuant to
Article II or III shall not be effective until received by the Agent. Delivery by telecopier or
facsimile of an executed counterpart of any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement
or

-42- 

any other Loan Document or of any Exhibit hereto or thereto to be executed and delivered
hereunder shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart thereof.

(b) Notices of Revolving Credit Borrowing, Notices of Competitive Bid Borrowing and materials
required to be delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(d)(i) and (d)(iii) may be delivered to the Agent
in an electronic medium in a format acceptable to the Agent by Email at
 oploanswebadmin@citigroup.com , or such other email address as the Agent shall specify in writing to
each of the Borrowers. Each of the Borrowers agrees that the Agent may make such materials, as
well as any other written information, documents, instruments and other material relating to each
of the Borrowers, any of its Subsidiaries or any other materials or matters relating to this
Agreement, any of the other Loan Documents or any of the transactions contemplated hereby or
thereby (collectively, the   Communications  ) available to the Lenders by posting such
notices on Intralinks or a substantially similar electronic system reasonably approved by P G (the
  Platform  ). Although the primary web portal is secured with a dual firewall and a User
ID/Password Authorization System and the Platform is secured through a single user per deal
authorization method whereby each user may access the Platform only on a deal-by-deal basis, each
of the Borrowers acknowledges that (i) the distribution of material through an electronic medium is
not necessarily secure and that there may be confidentiality and other risks associated with such
distribution, (ii) the Platform is provided  as is  and  as available  and (iii) neither the Agent
nor any of its Affiliates warrants the accuracy, adequacy or completeness of the Communications or
the Platform and each expressly disclaims liability for errors or omissions in the Communications
or the Platform. No warranty of any kind, express, implied or statutory, including, without
limitation, any warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement of
third party rights or freedom from viruses or other code defects, is made by the Agent or any of
its Affiliates in connection with the Platform.

(c) Each Lender agrees that notice to it (as provided in the next sentence) (a
  Notice  ) specifying that any Communications have been posted to the Platform shall
constitute effective delivery of such information, documents or other materials to such Lender for
purposes of this Agreement. Each Lender agrees (i) to notify the Agent in writing of such Lender s
Email address to which a Notice may be sent by electronic transmission (including by electronic
communication) on or before the date such Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (and from time
to time thereafter to ensure that the Agent has on record an effective Email address for such
Lender) and (ii) that any Notice may be sent to such Email address.

SECTION 8.03  No Waiver; Remedies .

No failure on the part of any Lender or the Agent to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any
right hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any
single or partial exercise of any such right preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the
exercise of any other right. The remedies provided herein are cumulative and not exclusive of any
remedies provided by law.

SECTION 8.04  Costs and Expenses .

(a) P G agrees to pay reasonably promptly following demand therefor all reasonable
out-of-pocket costs and expenses of the Agent in connection with the preparation, execution,
delivery, administration, modification and amendment of this Agreement, the other Loan Documents
and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including, without limitation, (A) all due
diligence, syndication (including printing, distribution and bank meetings), transportation,
computer, duplication, appraisal, consultant, and audit expenses and (B) the reasonable fees and
expenses of counsel for the Agent with respect thereto and with respect to advising the Agent as to
its rights and responsibilities under this

-43- 

Agreement and the other Loan Documents. Each of the Borrowers further agrees to pay on demand
all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses of the Agent and the Lenders, if any (including,
without limitation, reasonable counsel fees and expenses), in connection with the enforcement
against such Borrower (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of this
Agreement, the other Loan Documents and the other documents to be delivered hereunder and
thereunder, including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Agent
and each Lender in connection with the enforcement of rights against such Borrower under this
Section 8.04(a).

(b) Each of the Borrowers agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Agent and each Lender and
each of their Affiliates and their officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors (each, an
  Indemnified Party   and each of the Agent and the Lenders, and their respective Affiliates
officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors being, in relation to each other, a
  Related Indemnified Party  ) from and against any and all claims, damages, losses,
liabilities and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel)
that may be incurred by or asserted or awarded against any Indemnified Party, in each case arising
out of or in connection with or by reason of (including, without limitation, in connection with any
investigation, litigation or proceeding or preparation of a defense in connection therewith) the
Advances, this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, any of the transactions contemplated
herein or therein or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds of the Advances;  provided ,  however ,
that no Borrower shall have any obligation to indemnify an Indemnified Party pursuant to this
Section 8.04(b) with respect to any claim, damage, loss, liability or expense (i) that resulted
from negligence, willful misconduct, violation of law or the breach of any Loan Document by such
Indemnified Party or a Related Indemnified Party, (ii) is attributable to Taxes or Other Taxes,
which in each case shall be governed solely by Section 2.14, (iii) that arises out of a claim,
litigation, arbitration or proceeding of one or more of the Agent and/or any of the Lenders solely
against the Agent and/or any of the other Lenders not attributable to the actions of such Borrower
or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or (iv) that arises out of a claim, litigation,
arbitration or proceeding in which one or more of the Borrowers and/or their Subsidiaries or
Affiliates prevail. In the case of an investigation, litigation or other proceeding to which the
indemnity in this Section 8.04(b) applies, such indemnity shall be effective whether or not such
investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by the directors, shareholders or creditors of
any Borrower or an Indemnified Party or any other Person or any Indemnified Party is otherwise a
party thereto and whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated. Each of the
Borrowers and each of the Indemnified Parties hereby agrees not to assert any claim against each
such other Person, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive
damages arising out of or otherwise relating to the Advances, this Agreement or any of the other
Loan Documents, any of the transactions contemplated herein or therein or the actual or proposed
use of the proceeds of the Advances. No Indemnified Party shall settle or otherwise pay or agree
to pay any claim, damages, losses liabilities or expenses for which any Borrower is obligated to
provide indemnification under this Section 8.04(b) without the prior written consent of such
Borrower.

(c) If any payment of principal of, or Conversion of, any Eurocurrency Rate Advance is made by
any Borrower to or for the account of a Lender other than on the last day of the Interest Period
for such Advance, as a result of a payment or Conversion pursuant to Section 2.08(d) or (e), 2.10
or 2.12, acceleration of the maturity of the Advances pursuant to Section 6.02 or for any other
reason, or by an assignee to a Lender other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such
Advance upon an assignment of rights and obligations under this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.07
as a result of a demand by a Borrower pursuant to Section 8.07(a), each of the Borrowers shall,
upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), pay to the Agent for the
account of such Lender any amounts required to compensate such Lender for any additional losses,
costs or expenses that it may reasonably incur as a result of such payment or Conversion,
including, without limitation, any loss (excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense
incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by any
Lender to fund or maintain such Advance.

-44- 

(d) Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of the Borrowers hereunder, the
agreements and obligations of the Borrowers contained in Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 8.04 shall survive
the payment in full of principal, interest and all other amounts payable hereunder and under the
other Loan Documents.

SECTION 8.05  Right of Set-off .

Upon (i) the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default and (ii) the making
of the request or the granting of the consent specified by Section 6.02 to authorize the Agent to
declare the Advances due and payable pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02, each Lender and
each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest
extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or
demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such
Lender or such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of any Borrower against any and all of
the obligations of any Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement, whether or not such
Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be
unmatured. Each Lender agrees promptly to notify each of the Borrowers after any such set-off and
application,  provided  that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such
set-off and application. The rights of each Lender and its Affiliates under this Section are in
addition to other rights and remedies (including, without limitation, other rights of set-off) that
such Lender and its Affiliates may have.

SECTION 8.06  Binding Effect .

This Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed and delivered by P G
and the Agent and when the Agent shall have been notified by each Initial Lender that such Initial
Lender has executed it and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the
Borrowers, the Agent and each Lender and their respective successors and assigns, except that
(other than in accordance with Section 5.02(b) or Section 8.10) no Borrower shall have the right to
assign its rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of the
Lenders.

SECTION 8.07  Assignments and Participations .

(a) Without the prior written consent of P G and, except in connection with an Affiliate of
any of the Borrowers exercising its call rights under Section 2.18, and of the Agent (which Agent s
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld), no Lender may assign all or any portion of its rights
and obligations under this Agreement to any Person, except to an Affiliate of such Lender, as
provided in Section 2.11 or 2.14, or as set forth in Section 8.07(g) or to another Lender that is
an Affiliate of such Lender. Each assignment pursuant to the terms of this Section 8.07(a)
(A) shall be of a constant, and not a varying, percentage of all rights and obligations under this
Agreement and shall be on a pro rata basis between the Facilities (and, in the case of an
assignment demanded by a Borrower, shall be either an assignment of all of the rights and
obligations of the assigning Lender under this Agreement or an assignment of a portion of such
rights and obligations made concurrently with another such assignment or other such assignments
that together cover all of the rights and obligations of the assigning Lender under this
Agreement), except that any such assignment of a Commitment by a Lender to another Lender that is
an Affiliate of such Lender need not be accompanied by an assignment of the same percentage of any
of the assigning Lender s Advances and any such assignment of one or more Advances by a Lender to
another Lender that is an Affiliate of such Lender need not be accompanied by an assignment of the
same percentage the assigning Lender s Commitment or any of the assigning Lenders other Advances,
(B) except in the case of an assignment to a Person that, immediately prior to such assignment, was
a Lender or an assignment of all of a Lender s rights and obligations under this Agreement, shall
in no event be less than $10,000,000, and (C) shall be evidenced by evidenced by an Assignment and

-45- 

Acceptance executed by each of the parties thereto and delivered to the Agent, for its
acceptance and recordation in the Register. No Lender shall be obligated to make any such
assignment as a result of a demand by a Borrower pursuant to this Section 8.07(a) unless and until
such Lender shall have received one or more payments from either the Borrowers or one or more
Lender assignees therefrom in an aggregate amount at least equal to the aggregate outstanding
principal amount of the Advances owing to such Lender, together with accrued interest thereon to
the date of payment of such principal amount and all other amounts payable to such Lender under
this Agreement, (D) the parties to each such assignment shall execute and deliver to the Agent, for
its acceptance and recording in the Register, an Assignment and Acceptance, together with any Notes
subject to such assignment and (E) the Lenders party to each such Assignment and Acceptance shall
remit to the Agent a processing and recordation fee of $3,500, which fee shall be payable by either
the assigning Lender or the assignee Lender. Upon such execution, delivery, acceptance and
recording, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance, (1) the
assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent that rights and obligations
hereunder have been assigned to it pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and
obligations of a Lender hereunder and (2) the Lender assignor thereunder shall, to the extent that
rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned by it pursuant to such Assignment and
Acceptance, relinquish its rights and be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and,
in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all or the remaining portion of an assigning
Lender s rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party
hereto).

(b) By executing and delivering an Assignment and Acceptance, the Lender assignor thereunder
and the assignee thereunder confirm to and agree with each other and the other parties hereto as
follows: (i) other than as provided in such Assignment and Acceptance, such assigning Lender makes
no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements,
warranties or representations made in or in connection with this Agreement or any of the other Loan
Documents or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness or sufficiency or value
of this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents or any other instrument or document furnished
pursuant hereto or thereto; (ii) such assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and
assumes no responsibility with respect to the financial condition of any Borrower or the
performance or observance by any Borrower of any of its obligations under this Agreement or any of
the other Loan Documents or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or thereto;
(iii) such assignee confirms that it has received a copy of this Agreement, together with copies of
the financial statements delivered to Agent in accordance with this Agreement and such other
documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision
to enter into such Assignment and Acceptance; (iv) such assignee will, independently and without
reliance upon the Agent, such assigning Lender or any other Lender and based on such documents and
information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in
taking or not taking action under this Agreement; (v) such assignee appoints and authorizes the
Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers and discretion under
this Agreement and the other Loan Documents as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof and
thereof, together with such powers and discretion as are reasonably incidental thereto; and
(vi) such assignee agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the
obligations that by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.

(c) Upon its receipt of an Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Lender and an
assignee in accordance with Section 8.07(a), together with any Note or Notes subject to such
assignment, the Agent shall, if such Assignment and Acceptance has been completed and is in
substantially the form of  Exhibit B  hereto, (i) accept such Assignment and Acceptance,
(ii) record the information contained therein in the Register and (iii) give prompt notice thereof
to each of the Borrowers.

-46- 

(d) The Agent shall maintain at its address referred to in Section 8.02 a copy of each
Assignment and Acceptance delivered to and accepted by it and a register for the recordation of the
names and addresses of the Lenders and Commitments of, and principal amount of the Advances under
each Facility owing to, each Lender from time to time (the   Register  ). The entries in the
Register shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error, and each of the
Borrowers, the Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded as a Lender in
the Register as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement. The Register shall be
available for inspection by each of the Borrowers or any Lender at any reasonable time and from
time to time upon reasonable prior notice.

(e) Each Lender may upon not less than five Business Days  notice to P G sell participations
to one or more banks or other entities in or to all or a portion of its rights and obligations
under this Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of its Commitments which may
be on a non-pro rata basis between the Facilities, the Advances owing to it and any Note or Notes
held by it);  provided ,  however , that (i) such Lender s obligations under this Agreement (including,
without limitation, its Commitment to each of the Borrowers hereunder) shall remain unchanged,
(ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of
such obligations, (iii) such Lender shall remain the holder of any such Note for all purposes of
this Agreement, (iv) each of the Borrowers, the Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal
solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender s rights and obligations under
this Agreement and (v) no participant under any such participation shall have any right to approve
any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or any
consent to any departure by the Borrowers therefrom, except to the extent that such amendment,
waiver or consent would reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or other
amounts payable hereunder, in each case to the extent subject to such participation, or postpone
any scheduled date for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or
other amounts payable hereunder, in each case to the extent subject to such participation. If any
Lender sells a participation as described in this Section 8.07(e), such Lender shall provide to the
Agent on behalf of the Borrowers, or maintain as agent of the Borrowers, the information described
in Section 8.07(d) with respect to such participation and shall permit each of the Borrowers to
review such information (to the extent permitted under applicable law) from time to time upon
request. Neither the sale of any such participation nor the holding of such a participation by any
participant shall increase any obligation of any Borrower under Section 2.11 or Section 2.14.

(f) Any Lender may, in connection with any assignment or participation or proposed assignment
or proposed participation, disclose to the assignee or participant or proposed assignee or
participant any financial statements and related documents delivered to the Agent in accordance
with Section 4.01(e) or Section 5.01(d)(i);  provided  that, prior to any such disclosure, the
assignee or participant or proposed assignee or proposed participant shall agree to preserve the
confidentiality of any Confidential Information received by it in accordance with the terms of
Section 8.08.

(g) Notwithstanding any other provision set forth in this Agreement, any Lender may at any
time create a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement
(including, without limitation, the Advances owing to it and any Note or Notes held by it) in favor
of any Federal Reserve Bank in accordance with Regulation A of the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System.

SECTION 8.08  Confidentiality .

Neither the Agent nor any Lender shall disclose any Confidential Information to any other
Person without the consent of each of the Borrowers, other than (a) to the Agent s or such Lender s
Affiliates and their officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors and, as contemplated by
Section 8.07(f), to actual or prospective assignees and participants, and then only on a
confidential basis, (b) as required by any law, rule or regulation or judicial process and (c) as
requested or required by any state, federal or foreign

-47- 

authority or examiner regulating banks, banking or other financial institutions;  provided ,
that, with respect to clause (b) above, the Agent and each Lender agree to notify P G promptly of
any such request for the disclosure of Confidential Information unless such notification is
prohibited by applicable law, rule or regulation or by judicial process.

SECTION 8.09  Judgment Currency .

(a) If for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum
due hereunder in Dollars or any Optional Currency into another currency, the parties hereto agree,
to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that
at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Agent could purchase Dollars or such
Optional Currency, as the case may be, with such other currency at Citibank s principal office in
London at 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is
given.

(b) The obligation of each Borrower in respect of any sum due from it in any currency (the
  Primary Currency  ) to any Lender or the Agent hereunder shall, notwithstanding any
judgment in any other currency, be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following
receipt by such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be), of any sum adjudged to be so due in such
other currency, such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) may in accordance with normal banking
procedures purchase the applicable Primary Currency with such other currency; if the amount of the
applicable Primary Currency so purchased is less than such sum due to such Lender or the Agent (as
the case may be) in the applicable Primary Currency, each Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation
and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be)
against such loss, and if the amount of the applicable Primary Currency so purchased exceeds such
sum due to any Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) in the applicable Primary Currency, such
Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) agrees to remit to such Borrower such excess.

SECTION 8.10  Additional Borrowers; Assumption of Advances .

(a) P G may request upon not less than 10 Business Days  notice to the Agent and each Lender,
that any of its Subsidiaries become party to this Agreement as an additional borrower (an
  Additional Borrower  ), and additionally such Subsidiary or a Borrower may elect that all
or any portion of the Advances and other obligations of any Borrower under this Agreement and the
other Loan Documents shall be assumed by any other Borrower, in either case, by delivering to the
Agent a Borrower Accession Agreement, substantially in the form of Exhibit D (a   Borrower
Accession Agreement  ), duly executed by P G and such Subsidiary, together with a certificate of
an authorized representative of the Additional Borrower certifying the names and true signatures of
the other authorized representatives of the Additional Borrower authorized to sign the Borrower
Accession Agreement and the other documents to be delivered hereunder. Following the giving of any
notice pursuant to this Section 8.10(a), if the designation of such Additional Borrower obligates
the Administrative Agent or any Lender to comply with  know your customer  or similar
identification procedures in circumstances where the necessary information is not already available
to it, P G shall, promptly upon the request of the Administrative Agent or any Lender, supply such
documentation and other evidence as is reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent or any
Lender in order for the Administrative Agent or such Lender to carry out and be satisfied it has
complied with the results of all necessary  know your customer  or other similar checks under all
applicable laws and regulations. Within thirty days following the execution and delivery of the
Borrower Accession Agreement by such Additional Borrower, such Additional Borrower shall deliver
certified resolutions (or the equivalent thereof) of the Board of Directors (or the appropriate
committee or authorized individual(s) thereof) of such Additional Borrower, approving the Borrower
Accession Agreement and the other documents to be delivered thereunder and all documents evidencing
other necessary corporate (or equivalent) action. If P G shall designate as an Additional Borrower

-48- 

hereunder any Subsidiaries not organized under the laws of the United States or any State
thereof, or if any Borrower is reincorporated in a different jurisdiction in which a Lender may be
restricted either legally or operationally from lending, any Lender may, with notice to the
Administrative Agent and P G, fulfill its Commitment by causing an Affiliate of such Lender to act
as the Lender in respect of such Additional Borrower or Borrower as the case may be (and such
Lender shall, to the extent of Advances made to such Additional Borrower, be deemed for all
purposes hereof to have assigned the full amount of such Advances to such Affiliate in compliance
with the provisions of Section 8.07).

(b) A Subsidiary in respect of which P G has delivered a Borrower Accession Agreement to the
Agent shall become an Additional Borrower and, as such, shall have all of the rights and
obligations of a Borrower hereunder with respect to the Commitments specified to be made available
to such Additional Borrower, which shall be in a minimum amount of $500,000,000;  provided , that no
Default shall have occurred and be continuing or would result from such joinder or assumption, as
applicable. Upon any assumption of all of the Advances and other obligations of any Borrower,
then, so long no Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing or Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing in
respect of such Borrower is outstanding at such time, such Borrower shall no longer be a party to
this Agreement.

SECTION 8.11  Replacement of Lenders . If (i) any Lender requests any payment under
Section 2.11 or Section 2.14 or gives notice to any Borrower pursuant to Section 2.12, (ii) any
Lender is a Defaulting Lender, (iii) any Lender has been deemed insolvent or become the subject of
a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding or (iv) any Lender fails to consent to an amendment,
modification or waiver of this Agreement that pursuant to the terms hereof requires consent of all
of the Lenders or all of the Lenders affected thereby ( provided  that (A) such amendment,
modification, waiver or currency request has been consented to by the Required Lenders and (B) all
such non-consenting Lenders are replaced on the same terms) the Borrowers may, upon notice to such
Lender and the Agent, replace such Lender by causing such Lender to assign its Commitments pursuant
to Section 8.07 to one or more other Persons procured by the Borrowers. The Borrowers shall (1)
pay in full all principal, accrued interest, accrued fees and other amounts owing to such Lender
through the date of replacement and (2) release such Lender from its obligations under the Loan
Documents. Any Lender being replaced shall execute and deliver an Assignment and Assumption with
respect to such Lender s Commitments and outstanding Advances.

SECTION 8.12  Governing Law .

This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State
of New York.

SECTION 8.13  Jurisdiction .

(a) Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and
its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any New York State court or federal court of the
United States of America sitting in New York City, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any
action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or
for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably
and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard
and determined in any such New York State court or, to the extent permitted by law, in such federal
court. Each Borrower agrees that service of process in any such action or proceeding brought in
any such New York State court or in such federal court may be made upon CT Corporation System and
its offices at 111 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York 10011 (the   Process Agent  ), and
hereby further agrees that any failure of the Process Agent to give any notice of any such service
to any Borrower shall not impair or affect the validity of such service or of any judgment rendered
in any action or proceeding based thereon. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment
in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and

-49- 

may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided
by law. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that any party may otherwise have to
bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document in the courts
of any jurisdiction.

(b) Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent
it may legally and effectively do so, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying
of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or any
other Loan Document in any New York State or federal court. Each of the parties hereto hereby
irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to
the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.

SECTION 8.14  Execution in Counterparts .

This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto
in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all
of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed
counterpart of a signature page to this Agreement by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of a
manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.

SECTION 8.15  Waiver of Jury Trial .

Each of the Borrowers, the Agent and the Lenders hereby irrevocably waives all right to trial
by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim (whether based on contract, tort or otherwise)
arising out of or relating to this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents or the actions of
the Agent or any Lender in the negotiation, administration, performance or enforcement thereof.

SECTION 8.16  Patriot Act .

Each Lender hereby notifies each of the Borrowers that, pursuant to the requirements of the
USA Patriot Improvement and Reauthorization Act of 2005 (the   Act  ), it is required to
obtain, verify and record information that identifies each Borrower, which information includes the
name and address of each Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender to identify
such Borrower in accordance with the Act.

-50- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their
respective officers or representatives thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above
written.

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY,      as a Borrower 

By 

Title: 

Address:

PROCTER   GAMBLE INTERNATIONAL      S.A.R.L., as a Borrower 

By 

Title: 

Address:

PROCTER   GAMBLE HOLDING (HK)      LIMITED, as a Borrower 

By 

Title: 

Address:

Signature Page to Credit Agreement

PROCTER   GAMBLE INTERNATIONAL      OPERATIONS S.A., as a Borrower 

By 

Title: 

Address:

CITIBANK, N.A., as Sole Lead Arranger and 
     Administrative Agent 

By 

Title: 

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., 
     as Syndication Agent 

By 

Title: 

DEUTSCHE BANK AG, NEW YORK BRANCH, 
     as Co-Documentation Agent 

By 

Title: 

ABN AMRO BANK N.V., 
     as Co-Documentation Agent 

By 

Title: 

Signature Page to Credit Agreement

HSBC BANK USA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,  
     as Co-Documentation Agent 

By 

Title: 

Signature Page to Credit Agreement

SCHEDULE I 
CREDIT AGREEMENT 
APPLICABLE LENDING OFFICES

SCHEDULE II 
CREDIT AGREEMENT 
COMMITMENTS

</EX-10.14>

<EX-11>
 9
 l32996aexv11.htm
 EX-11

EX-11 

EXHIBIT (11)

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Computation of Earnings Per Share 

Amounts in millions except per share amounts

(1) 
       
     Despite being included currently in diluted net earnings per common share, the actual
conversion to common stock occurs pursuant to the repayment of the ESOP debt through 2021. 

(2) 
       
     Approximately 40 million in 2008, 41 million in 2007, and 44 million in 2006 of the Company s
outstanding stock options were not included in the diluted net earnings per share calculation
because to do so would have been antidilutive (i.e., the total proceeds upon exercise would
have exceeded the market value of the underlying common shares). 

</EX-11>

<EX-12>
 10
 l32996aexv12.htm
 EX-12

EX-12 

EXHIBIT (12)

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

Amounts in millions

(1)  
       
     Considered to be representative of interest factor in rental expense. 

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 11
 l32996aexv13.htm
 EX-13

EX-13 

EXHIBIT (13)

Annual Report to Shareholders 
(pages 1-82)

-^^ I  MH  

^RjTJK^J IMIw 

^^B^^^^ 

^^^^^^^ffi
^^^^^^^ffl 

H^^^ul^QSliiiilc^^nf^^^^H ^^KK^H  

^^^ffi 

^^^^^^^^  m^^m  

Iflffl 

^jjgjj^^^^fljgo^flfl^l ^^^^^^H
aiBgBiaSiiBlMBMMMBiB ^M^ ^^^^^1 ^^^^^1 ^^^^^1
^JjjpjfflBffl^J^B^B^^^^^^j^jgU^^B^J ^^^^^^^1 ^^l^^^^^l ^^E^^^^^l
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^B^^^^^^^^^^^^^^B^CT ^S^^^^^^^^^^^^j^^^^^^^^^^^B^^
^^^a^^^^^^^^^^M^^^^^^^^^^^^BB            B^^^^^^^^^^^^^B^^^^^^^^^^^8B
^^^a^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^aE            E^^^^^^^^^^^^^B^^^^^^^^^^^^SB
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^   ^^^^^^^^^^^^   Ea  b^^^^^^^^^^^^^b^^^^^^^^^^^^ski 
E^^^^^^^^M^^^^^^^^^fiB
Q^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^E^
^^^^^^^^^^^   ^^^^^^^^^^^   m ^^0^2
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^fl 

^^^ 

W  

P G is designed to innovate consistently and successfully in every part
of our business.

We
 define innovation broadly,  in terms of what it is, where it comes from, and who s responsible for
it.

We  invest in innovation  at industry-leading levels with ongoing productivity savings.

We  manage innovation  with discipline.

We  deliver innovation  that builds consumer trust and loyalty over time.

We  lead innovation  on leading global brands and with an outstanding team of innovation leaders.

P G is  Designed to Innovate...  and to grow.

2     The Procter   Gamble Company

A.G. Lafley  
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer

Fellow P G Shareholders: 

In last year s annual report, I explained how P G is designed to grow. We ve designed a global,
diversified business portfolio that enables P G to grow consistently and reliably. We ve
developed the core strengths consumer understanding, brand-building, innovation, go-to-market
capability, and scale-that are needed to win in the consumer products industry. We manage the
business with rigorous strategic, financial and operating discipline. We ve built the most
diverse, globally experienced team of business leaders in P G s 171-year history. These
elements work in combination to ensure P G can meet or exceed its growth targets reliably year
after year.

At the heart of P G s design for growth is our capability to innovate   broadly, reliably,
and successfully, year after year, in every part of our business. We innovate across more
categories and on more leading brands than any other consumer products company. We have a broader
range of science and technology than any of our competitors. We invest more in innovation and
marketing support than any other consumer products company. We deliver an unrelenting stream of
innovation with systematic discipline. And P G s businesses are run by women and men who are not
only globally experienced general managers but also highly skilled innovation leaders.

This helps P G deliver consistent, reliable innovation and reliable, sustainable growth. Innovation
drives growth.

We saw this in fiscal 2008, as P G delivered another year of innovation-driven growth at or
above the Company s target levels for sales, earnings-per-share and cash generation.

FISCAL 2008 RESULTS 

Net sales increased 9%, to $83.5 billion. Organic sales
increased 5%. 

Diluted earnings per share increased 20%, to $3.64 per share. 

Free cash flow from operating activities was $12.8 billion,
or 106% of net earnings, well ahead of the 90% cash
productivity target. 

Fiscal 2008 was P G s seventh consecutive year of organic sales growth at or ahead of the long-term
target range; brand and new product innovations, particularly in developing markets, accounted for
virtually all this sales growth. Over the same period, diluted earnings per share have grown at a
compound average growth rate of
13%, (1)  well ahead of our long-term target. We ve
generated more than $60 billion in free cash flow since the beginning of the decade. Most
importantly, we ve delivered consistently strong total shareholder return over the past ten-,
five-, three- and one-year periods, above the Dow Jones Industrial Average.

1. 
       
     2001 EPS excludes S0.61 per share
of costs from the Organization 2005
restructuring program and amortization
of goodwill and indefinite-lived
intangible assets. 

Note: An explanation and reconciliation of
free cash flow and organic sales for
2008 is provided on page 55.

The Procter   Gamble Company     3

P G s sales growth in fiscal 2008 came from a diverse mix of businesses and was driven
primarily by innovation.

Baby and Family Care organic sales increased 8%. Charmin
delivered double-digit organic volume growth behind the
introduction of Charmin UltraStrong and a complete restage
of the brand line-up. Pampers delivered double-digit volume
growth and became P G s first $8 billion brand   behind
the continued strength of Pampers Baby Stages of
Development. Bounty introduced Bounty Extra Soft and
upgraded Bounty Basic. 

Fabric and Home Care grew organic sales 6%, driven by liquid
laundry detergent compaction a disruptive innovation
rolled out across the entire North America laundry portfolio 
along with strong product innovation on Tide, Gain, Ariel,
Downy, and Febreze. 

Beauty organic sales increased 4%, behind the continuing
success of Olay Definity and Regenerist product innovation,
new product and package innovation on Head   Shoulders,
and a revolutionary new home hair-colorant called Perfect 10
on Nice  N Easy. 

Grooming grew organic sales 4%, led by more than 40%
top-line growth on the superior Fusion male shaving system.
Fusion became P G s 24th billion-dollar brand. 

Health Care organic sales grew 3%, driven by strong innovation
across the Health Care business: Crest Pro-Health Night Paste
and Rinse, Oral-B Cross-Action Pro-Health Brush, Always Clean
and Always Fresh, and comfort upgrades on the Naturella
brand. 

Snacks, Coffee and Pet Care organic sales increased 4%, led
by the launch of Dunkin Donuts    retail coffee, a number of
Pringles initiatives including Rice Infusion, Extreme Flavors
and Pringles Stix and lams Proactive Health for dogs and
Healthy Naturals for cats. 

Growth was broad-based across all geographic regions, with mid-single-digit sales growth in
developed markets and double-digit sales growth in developing markets.

We successfully completed the integration of Gillette, exceeding cost synergy and dilution targets.
Revenue synergies are on target, with significant upside potential over the next three to five
years. We ve just begun to leverage the Gillette and Oral-B brands, both strong platforms for
innovation.

P G REPORT CARD 

Progress Against P G s Goals and Strategies 
GROWTH RESULTS 

GROWTH STRATEGIES (2001-2008) 

Grow from the core: Leading Brands, Big Markets, Top Customers  

Volume up 7%,

Volume up 7%,

Volume up 8%, 

on average, for

on average, for

on average, 

P G s 24 billion-

P G s top 16

for P G s top 10 

dollar brands (4) 

countries (5) 

retail customers (5)  

Develop faster-growing, higher-margin, more asset-efficient businesses  

Beauty sales

Health Care

Home Care 

more than

sales more than

sales more than 

doubled to

doubled to

doubled; profits 

$19.5 billion;

$14.6 billion;

more than tripled 

profits tripled to

profit increased 

$2.7 billion

4-fold to 

$2.5 billion 

Accelerate growth in developing markets and among low-income consumers  

Developing

Over one-third

Developing market 

market sales up

of total company

profit margins 

18% per year

sales growth

comparable to 

from developing

developed market 

markets

margins 

(1) 
       
     Organic sales exclude the impacts of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign exchange,
which were 6%, on average, in 2001-2008. 

(2) 
       
     2001 EPS excludes S0.61 per share of costs from the Organization 2005 restructuring
program and amortization of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. 

(3) 
       
     Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings. 

(4) 
       
     Excludes the impact of adding newly acquired billion-dollar brands to the portfolio. 

(5) 
       
     Excludes impact of adding Gillette. 

4     The Procter   Gamble Company

On June 4, 2008, we announced our agreement to merge P G s coffee business with The J.M.
Smucker Company. The agreement maximizes the after-tax value of the coffee business for P G
shareholders and minimizes earnings-per-share dilution versus other alternatives. We expect to
complete the transaction during the second quarter of fiscal 2009.

SUSTAINING GROWTH THROUGH INNOVATION 

This is strong performance, but the challenge of sustaining growth is greater today than at any
time in the past 50 years. Commodity and energy costs continue to rise for companies. Consumers are
facing higher food and gas prices, declining home values, and rising levels of unemployment. The
question shareholders and prospective investors are asking is:  How will P G sustain growth in
today s challenging and uncertain economic environment? 

The answer is clear to all of us at P G: we will continue to innovate in every part of our
business.  Innovation is at the heart of P G s business model. It is the primary way we delight
consumers, create value with retail partners, and create new business models to deliver consistent,
sustainable growth at or ahead of the Company s goals.

A lot of companies talk about innovation, but P G has demonstrated the capability over decades to
innovate consistently, reliably and successfully. We have a long list of innovation firsts in our
industry:

Tide was the first heavy-duty laundry detergent 

Crest, the first fluoride toothpaste clinically proven to prevent
tooth decay 

Downy, the first ultra-concentrated rinse-add fabric softener 

Pert Plus, the first 2-in-1 shampoo and conditioner 

Head   Shoulders, the first pleasant-to-use shampoo effective
against dandruff 

Pampers, the first affordable, mass-marketed disposable diaper 

Bounty, the first three-dimensional paper towel 

Always, the first feminine protection pad with an innovative,
dry-weave topsheet. 

Febreze, the first fabric and air care products that actually
remove odors from fabrics and the air 

Crest White Strips, the first patented in-home teeth whitening
technology 

P G continues to be one of the few companies in our industry that creates new categories and
brands, new performance standards, and new definitions of consumer value. Swiffer and Febreze
created entirely new product categories. Crest Pro-Health, Olay
Regenerist and Definity, Pampers
Baby Stages of Development, and Tide with Bleach redefined high performance in their categories.
Olay innovation has created new consumer experiences that are as good as or better
than several-hundred-dollar department and specialty store brands.

We innovate so consistently across our diverse portfolio of businesses, and so consistently
over time, because we ve created a unique design for innovation at P G.

1. We  define innovation  broadly.

2. We  invest in innovation  at industry-leading levels.

3. We  manage innovation  with discipline.

4. We  deliver innovation  that builds consumer trust and loyalty over time.

5. We  lead innovation  with global brands and an outstanding team of innovation leaders.

This integrated, end-to-end approach is complemented by P G s global scale and scope, which is
unrivaled in our industry.

The result is an innovation design that enables P G to win with consumers and retail customers and
to generate sustainable long-term growth and shareholder value.

DEFINING INNOVATION BROADLY 

We define innovation broadly. We innovate in every area where our brands touch consumers  lives:
the package and product, the shopping experience, the in-home product usage experience, and every
aspect of communication. We also create innovative new business models and organizational
structures. By innovating so broadly, we get to see more innovation opportunities and to leverage
more innovation resources than more narrowly focused competitors.

Our Family Care business is a good example. Twenty years ago, we created a proprietary paper-making
process that enables us to produce the strongest, softest, most absorbent paper towels and tissues
on the market. But our approach to innovation in Tissues and Towels is driven by consumers, not by
the technology.

The Procter   Gamble Company      5

Designed to Innovate 

Consumers don t all want the same benefits from a brand like Bounty. Some consumers want a
paper towel designed for spills and light cleaning; it s important to them not to be wasteful. We
created Bounty Basic for these consumers, which is just right for everyday tasks but not
over-designed. We created Bounty UltraStrong for consumers who value strength and absorbency and
Bounty Extra Soft for those who want more softness. All these products use the same paper-making
technology, but provide highly tailored benefits to meet specific consumer needs.

We also tailor marketing and communications to specific consumer needs. Bounty Basic consumers
aren t persuaded by television advertising; they get all the brand communication they need at the
store shelf. Other consumers are receptive to information about our brands at different times and
places, and we respond with communication and marketing plans tailored to their desires and
preferences.

We re able to innovate broadly and successfully because we engage consumers as co-designers of
innovation. We live with consumers in their homes, shop with them in stores, and observe their
daily behavior for days, weeks and even months at a time. Consumers are active participants in
P G s innovation process, and we keep them involved in every step that guides a new product or idea
from concept to launch.

We also involve external innovation partners to turbo-charge P G s internal innovative
capability an approach we call  Connect and Develop.  Six years ago, only 15% of our product
initiatives included innovation from outside P G. Today, more than half of all P G innovation
includes an external partner. In just the past year, we evaluated more than 5,000 innovation
opportunities from small entrepreneurs, universities, research institutes, and large companies.
This is a fourfold increase over the number of external innovations we were considering at the
beginning of the decade.

6      The Procter   Gamble Company

By defining innovation so broadly what it is, where it comes from, who s responsible for
it we continually expand and unleash P G s innovation potential. The best proof of our innovation
capability is the number of top-selling new products that come from P G. The IRI Pacesetters study
tracks and ranks the most successful new consumer products introduced in the U.S. For the past 13
years, one-third of the most successful Pacesetter products, on average, have come from P G and
Gillette more than our top six competitors combined. In 2008, 5 of the 10 best-selling new products
came from P G, including Tide Simple Pleasures detergent, Febreze Noticeables air freshener, the
new Herbal Essences line of products, Crest Pro-Health toothpaste, and Olay Definity skin care
products.

INVESTING IN INNOVATION 

Another point of difference is P G s ability to invest in innovation at industry-leading levels. We
invest more than $2 billion a year in R D, nearly twice the level of our closest competitor,
Unilever, and roughly equal to the combined total of our other major competitors Avon, Clorox,
Colgate, Energizer, Henkel, Kimberly Clark, L Oreal, and Reckitt Benckiser. We also maintain a high
level of marketing investment in our brands. P G s advertising investment has averaged about 10% of
sales over the past 15 years.

We maintain this strong level of innovation and marketing investment, while continuing to grow
margins, by continually increasing P G s productivity. The more productive we become, the more we
can redeploy people and dollars to innovation.

P G has a strong track record of reliable productivity growth. Sales per employee have grown more
than threefold and net earnings per employee are up eightfold since 1980. Over the past 10 years,
P G s productivity on a sales-per-employee basis has grown at an average rate of 6% a year. This
performance is more than twice the U.S. average of roughly 2.5% productivity growth per year.

P G grows productivity so reliably because we take a very systemic approach. A good example of this
is Global Business Services P G s shared services business model. Early this decade, we
significantly reduced the cost of business services by centralizing and standardizing P G systems,
infrastructure and services. We then focused on improved service levels and greater value creation,
ultimately creating a global business services organization that has been recognized externally as
the best shared-services organization in the world, and which has delivered nearly $600 million of
cumulative cost savings to date  a substantial portion of which we ve reinvested in innovation.

In addition, GBS in collaboration with our R D and Engineering functions is making P G a more
productive and effective innovator by accelerating the use of virtualization, computer modeling and
simulation. Virtualization is enabling P G brands to co-design products with consumers. The same
technologies allow us to show retailers virtual in-store displays for half the cost and less than
half the time required for physical shelf designs. Computer modeling and simulation saved P G about
17 years of design time in the last year alone.

We re convinced we can become even more productive, increasing productivity 7-8% a year. We re
making our brand portfolio more productive by focusing even more on our largest leading brands the
44 brands with sales of $500 million or more that represent 85% of sales and more than 90% of
profits. We re getting more disciplined about how to manage the remaining brands in P G s
portfolio, investing in small brands that have potential to become billion-dollar brands of the
future, supporting brands that may not have global potential but are local jewels in some markets,
and consolidating or divesting underperforming brands. And, we re seizing even more opportunities
to leverage P G scale by eliminating duplicative activities, centralizing more functional support,
and consolidating some small countries into regional hubs.

We re also going after cost savings throughout the Company. We have clearly defined goals for
controlling overhead spending. Businesses projected to grow significantly faster than the balance
of the portfolio have an overhead target equal to or less than half their projected sales growth;
slower-growing businesses and all corporate functions are committed to zero overhead growth;
businesses growing below company goals and/or with significant cost-structure issues must reduce
overhead spending every year. This discipline reflects our commitment to flat or declining
headcount for the foreseeable future.

These and other efforts throughout the Company are critical. Productivity fuels innovation.
Innovation drives growth.

MANAGING INNOVATION WITH DISCIPLINE 

The next factor that sets P G apart as an innovator is discipline. We don t rely on  Eureka! 
moments; we take a systematic approach to innovation.

For example, we re highly systematic about how we organize for innovation. We don t take a
 one-size-fits-all  approach but we re deliberate about creating the right structure for different
kinds of innovation work. Our Corporate Innovation Fund, for example, specializes in high-risk,
high-reward ideas; it s essentially an in-house venture capital firm that does initial concept,
design, engineering, and qualification work and then

The Procter   Gamble Company     7

hands over successful ideas to the appropriate business units. The FutureWorks team focuses
exclusively on innovations that can create entirely new businesses. There are new-business
development teams in every global business unit focusing on opportunities to create adjacent
categories. Innovation centers help us solve tough innovation challenges by providing simulated
in-home and in-store environments where P G teams can isolate themselves and interact with
consumers and shoppers for days or even weeks at a time.

Once an idea is qualified and begins moving through our product launch system, the innovation team
continues to face go/no-go gates at every critical milestone. At each gate, we make decisions about
which initiatives are ready to progress, which need further work, and which should be stopped.
Every decision is grounded in maximizing the productivity of innovation investments and generating
shareholder value.

This disciplined approach is essential to innovation success. It builds accountability into both
the creative and executional aspects of innovation. P G s Family Care business is a good example
here, as well. Family Care is one of P G s strongest value-creating businesses. They ve innovated
broadly across brand platforms Bounty, Charmin and Puffs while delivering industry-leading,
double-digit total shareholder return for the past one-, three- and five-year periods in a highly
capital-intensive category. They ve increased gross margins 7% and have delivered free cash flow
well above the Company s 90% cash productivity target for the past five years, despite investments
in innovation and in new manufacturing capacity to support growth.

There are similar stories in Fabric Care, Feminine Care, Baby Care, Beauty Care, and Health
Care. These are the results of disciplined innovation.

DELIVERING A STEADY STREAM OF INNOVATION 

What I ve explained so far the way we think about innovation, our ability to invest in it, and the
discipline with which we manage it are the elements of P G s innovation design that are difficult
to see from the outside. Each of these factors helps to set P G apart as an innovator. What counts
most, however, is the innovation that consumers experience day after day, year after year.

We earn consumer trust and loyalty over time by delivering an unending stream of innovation that
consumers learn to expect from P G brands. We plan three-to-five years out and fill our pipeline
with three distinct kinds of innovation.

Disruptive innovation   creates new categories, new segments,
or entirely new sources of consumer consumption. These are
innovations that address consumer needs no other brand or
product has met. Virtually all of P G s billion-dollar brands
were created with disruptive innovations. 

Sustaining innovation   is what we focus on most. These are
extensions or improvements of existing products: big initiatives
that meet consumer needs by filling gaps, eliminating consumer
trade-offs, or providing new benefits. Examples include
Pampers Caterpillar-Flex, which improved the fit and comfort
of baby diapers, and Crest Pro-Health Rinse, the Crest brand s
entry into the mouth-rinse category adjacent to toothpastes. 

Commercial innovation   generates trial on existing products
without a product or package change. Examples include the
Gillette Champions and Pampers Unicef programs, marketing
efforts that give consumers new reasons to be interested in
and loyal to a P G brand. 

Always is a great example of how this multidimensional innovation strategy builds loyalty and
category leadership. We introduced Always in 1984 as the first feminine protection pad with an
innovative, dry-weave topsheet. In 1986, the brand set yet another performance standard with its
proprietary  wings  product, followed by Ultra Thin products in 1991. These three disruptive
innovations brought years of competitive advantage. In addition to these disruptive innovations, we
have maintained a steady pace of product upgrades with sustaining innovations like Always Fresh,
Always Clean and Always Overnight. This year, Always is leading innovation again, with a disruptive
initiative called Always Infinity that uses a unique pad design and new, state-of-the-art
technology to bring a new level of superior protection and absorbency to consumers.

Always has also delivered a steady stream of meaningful commercial innovation. The brand s school
education programs teach girls about puberty, and introduce them to the category and our brands.
Another commercial innovation, from both Always and Tampax, is beinggirl.com, a unique website that
enables teens to get information in a safe, discreet environment and to interact with peers facing
similar life-stage issues.

This combination of disruptive, sustaining and commercial innovation keeps a brand like Always
growing year after year. Always has grown in 21 of the 24 years since launch and has increased its
U.S. market share from 14% to 48%, and today has a global share of 31%. There are examples like
Always throughout P G s brand portfolio.

8     The Procter   Gamble Company

LEADING INNOVATION 

Making P G s design for innovation work is the job of leadership.

Innovation is a human activity and leaders must unleash the creativity, initiative, leadership, and
productivity of the innovators in their businesses. This requires a blend of intelligence and
empathy. Empathy is incredibly important in a diverse, people-intensive business like ours. Most of
our creativity and innovation happens in teams, and often the teammates are working in different
parts of the world.

To lead in this kind of environment, we need a balance of intellectual skills and empathic skills.
We have to develop the intuition to understand and appreciate people s intentions, feelings and
motivations all of which have been shaped by experiences that may be sharply different from those
we ve grown up with ourselves.

At the same time, innovation leaders must be decision-makers. They must exercise the judgment and
the courage to take innovation risks and to understand the role fast failure plays in the
innovation process, while also being willing to stop projects and reallocate resources to bigger
innovation opportunities when necessary.

I m a big believer that innovation leaders are made, not born. They learn to get comfortable with
uncertainty. They learn to become more open-minded, to co-create with consumers, and to be
receptive to ideas from different disciplines and industries. They learn to become both strategists
and operational managers, to be agile and disciplined. As they learn and gain experience, they
become more effective at leveraging P G s design for innovation to deliver consistent, sustainable
growth.

The ability to lead effective innovation programs is required at P G, particularly at the general
manager and president levels. Good innovation leaders need to be cultivated and promoted   and I
hold myself accountable for helping to select and develop the innovation leaders who run P G
businesses around the world. Ensuring P G has the leaders and the pipeline to innovate for the next
ten years is one of my most fundamental responsibilities as chief executive.

LEVERAGING GLOBAL SCALE AND SCOPE 

The most differentiating aspect of P G s approach to innovation is the scale and scope of our
business and brand portfolio, science and technology platforms, and geographic reach.

The diversity of our business portfolio creates highly valuable scale benefits. Our Health   Beauty
businesses take advantage of purchasing pools created by Household businesses such as
laundry, diapers and paper products. This enables them to purchase packing materials and basic
commodities at lower prices than their direct competitors. Similarly, Household Care enjoys
economies of scale created by the large advertising budgets supporting our Health   Beauty Care
businesses. We use these scale advantages to invest in innovation.

The diversity of P G s brand portfolio gives us the opportunity to innovate in more aspects of
consumers  lives than nearly any other company. P G brands are in every room of the house, at
virtually every hour of the day. As a result, we get to see more of consumers  needs than other
companies. This helps us spot more problems P G innovation can help solve and more aspirations P G
brands can help achieve.

Our science and technology portfolio is another huge scale advantage. Bleach technology from
Laundry has been used in Health   Beauty Care products such as Crest White Strips and Nice  n Easy
Perfect 10 Hair Colorant. Non-woven top sheet technology started in Diapers, traveled to Feminine
Care then moved to Swiffer and Olay Daily Facials. Proprietary perfume technology has been used to
enhance the performance of Bounce, Febreze, Fine Fragrances, Camay and most recently Secret and
Gillette Clinical Strength deodorant. We re now combining Gillette s expertise in mechanical
engineering with our expertise in chemical engineering.

Companies that compete primarily in Beauty can t benefit from such technology transfer because they
don t have a Laundry business. Home Care competitors can t move a substrate technology from diapers
or feminine hygiene if they re not in those businesses. There is no other company in our industry
whose portfolio of businesses and brands, sciences and technologies is as broad, as deep or as
diverse as P G s. This is a very significant source of competitive advantage. We use our diverse
mix of sciences and technologies to make innovation connections that other companies cannot make on
their own.

Another area in which we can leverage P G scale is our geographic reach. In developed markets like
the U.S., where P G brands can be found in virtually every household, we leverage household
penetration as a scale advantage. In developing markets, we re using our portfolio of leading
brands to attract and build a network of best-in-class, often exclusive distributors in countries
such as China, India and Russia. Today our distributor network in China reaches about 800 million
people. In India, our distributor network covers 4.5 million stores, an increase of two million
stores in just five years. In Russia, we now have access to 80% of the population.

The Procter   Gamble Company     9

P G s global scale allows us to quickly flow innovation across developing countries. We
create innovation to meet consumer needs in a particular region and then quickly flow that
technology across multiple countries faster than competition. For example, consumers who wash
clothing by hand need improved rinsing with less water. This is a common need in many developing
countries. We launched Downy Single Rinse in Mexico, and have since expanded it into 12 countries,
including China, the Philippines, and Peru. We did the same with Naturella, an innovative feminine
protection product created specifically for low-income consumers in Latin America; we re now
expanding Naturella throughout Eastern Europe. We ve created highly cost-effective laundry
detergent formulations that we ve expanded rapidly across developing markets. We ve created a
 better and cheaper  dentifrice formulation for Crest that was first introduced in China and has
now been expanded into Eastern European markets and has also been introduced as an important cost
innovation in several developed markets.

We re able to do all this because we ve built the systems and go-to-market scale that allow us to
move an entire innovation   concept, brand, product formulation, package, marketing, and in-store
presence to multiple markets almost simultaneously. With this geographic reach and capability, in
developed and developing markets alike, we can expand innovation around the world and into millions
of homes very quickly.

DESIGNED TO INNOVATE  AND GROW 

We ve built P G s business model around innovation because it s the primary driver of superior
consumer value and profitable organic sales growth in the consumer products industry. The companies
that lead innovation are growth catalysts and generally capture a substantial portion of the growth
they stimulate. I don t know of a company that has sustained growth and industry leadership over
the long term that has not also been the innovation leader.

Innovation is especially important in tough economic periods. Consumers will continue to buy
premium-priced products as long as they re confident they re getting value for their money. This is
why innovation is so important. Price is an element of value, but the real driver of value
perception is relative pricing, not absolute pricing, combined with product performance and brand
equity. Innovation drives value. It differentiates our brands in the hearts and minds of consumers.
It enables category leadership. It stimulates growth and prevents commoditization of the categories
in which we compete. It drives premium pricing and higher gross and operating margins.

This reality plays to P G strengths as an innovator. We innovate more broadly than any other
company in our industry. We invest more in innovation and marketing support. We bring a richer mix
of innovation to market with greater discipline and strong leadership. We ve designed an innovation
capability that is unmatched in the consumer products industry.

Most important of all, P Gers around the world see innovation as their job. They look for
opportunities to innovate in every part of the business. Consumer researchers are developing
innovative new ways to learn from consumers. Marketers are finding new ways and new places to
engage consumers. Technicians operating lines in P G plants are creating innovative ideas for
making products better, faster and cheaper. Innovation has always been at the heart of P G s
business model, but today it s not the province of only one or two functions within the Company.
Innovation is the focus of our entire organization.

P G s innovation capability is stronger and more robust today than at any time in the Company s
history and this is why I m confident innovation will continue to be the primary driver of
sustainable sales and earnings-per-share growth at or ahead of P G s long-term targets.

P G is designed to innovate, and to grow.

A.G. Lafley  
Chairman of the Board 
and Chief Executive Officer 
August 12, 2008

FiB^JiP  

^q  

^^^  ^^^  

^^^^^ffl^^^^^^^^^m ^^^m ^ ffi ^^wE  

^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^H 

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ffl ^^Q 

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^m ^^^ i^^^l
^m^^^^^^^^^ n^^ffi 

~S.CONT ^^^^^U            fldfi  

^^^ra            l^^^w            t^^^^^l 

^^^^^^^^^^ffil^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^m
^^^^^^w ^^^H 

^^^^^m^^M^^^Q I^^^B ^^^H 

^^S H B  ^^r 

^n^ w^H^^^  ^^hk  OT^^Hm
^^^^^^^^m
^^ ^^^n
^Q^^^^^^n            t^^^^^w? ^^^m
^^^^^^Hra ^^Q^ ^^^Q ^^^mj
^^^^^^2 ^^^^
^^^^^^^B
B^^n
^^^n ^^ 
fflBJgi
K^^^^fl^^^^U ^^^1
^^^ul ^^^1
^w^^^^ff^^Hra ^^^m 

^^M            B^H 

^mu^^m^^^^^^^ffin^^^M
n^^Hra    ^ffi^MHrallllR 

^^^^^^^^^^u^^^^^^^^uE^^^^SIu ^^^1
^ffl ui^Qu
^^^^^^M^^^^^ra^^^^w^Hml^^^^^Q
I^^^B ^^^^ ^^^Q 

^fl^^^^^^^^^^^^^n ^^n^ ^^^^
^^^H ^^^R 

^^^m ^^E
iginijii            n^^Hra 

Head   Shoulders now generates
about $2 billion in annual sales
for P G. With strong momentum and a
robust innovation pipeline. Head  
Shoulders should remain one of
P G s fastest-growing
billion-dollar brands. 

ijfl
 
What innovation is at P G: Where innovation            Who s responsible for
comes from at P G: innovation at P G:
 ^^m 
Tgig  ^^5  

^^ 

^^Q H 

^^E            I
H 

IISIZ^^H  

Net Sales  

a   

H^^^^^ro^ 

^ffi 

SALES PER EMPLOYEE  

5% Compound Average Growth Rate 

NET EARNINGS PER EMPLOYEE  

8% Compound Average Growth Rate 

^kKlfnEMsn 

^
^ 

Operating Profit  

Pretax Profit Net Earnings  

^^ffl ^^ffl  

^^^Q ^^^rc^^^ffi
^^^^ ^^^^^^^^Q ^MW i^^^^^l
SffiaB
^^^M
^ ^^ fcini ^^^O
^^ffn^^^^^^^^m^^^^n^^^Qm
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^1 ^^^^^^^^R^Q
^^^g ^^^Q
^^^^ffl ^^^n ^^H
^^^^^^^^^^^^^H ^^^Q ^^^^^^^Q
^^^^^^Q ^^^^^^^9 ^^^a^^^w ffi^^Q
 ^^^^^^^^^^a  ^^^^^^B ^^^^ffl
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^H ^^^^^Q            ajiBKBBi
 
 ^^H ^^ffl^^ffl
^^^^ff^^^ ^^^^^9
^^^Q ^^^Q ^^^^^
^^^^^W
^^^^^^H    ^i^^^ik ^i|Mi^R ^^R^^^^^^^^H   

^^^a 
^^^^H
^^^^Te^^^^^^^Tt^^^H ^l^^^^n
^^^^^^^^^^^^^H  h^^h  ^^^m ^^^Q ^^^3 ^^X|
^^^R ^^^^ ^^^Q ^^^H 

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^H 

^^^^m ^^^ 

^^^w
nss  iffM 
 ^Nffl            vm            Brl?/  
 
 fipKiirSj            BSE  

^n 

aSR 

n^^^K            a^^BB ^EMBBau5jiM|iig^i^ 

jl^ffiE^M 

^^^^^R^UjjPijkjjiiia.^^^^ 

^^^^l^^^^h^^^ ^Q^n  

^^^M 

^Rhjgfci^^^^S
^^M ^^Q 

^^^^^^S 

^^H ^^B 

^^m ^^^^Q ^^^ 

^^ffl 

P G s 
Innovation 

Process 

H  fcLvJilJ  

jRliB^WBK  

H^^^ul ^BKflw Q^^^^l 

Hm Q^^^^V 

B^E^nni^n?Bisv
 ^^^^ ^^^M ^5 ^^Q ^^g
^jfl ^^9 ^^^Q ^^S
..   ^O            jn^^^R |^^^5 ^S^Rj ^^^^^^^g
U^^B            m^ffl  

jmm            mr            mm  - 

in  

BtiffiiBKiiBBiMMiiTSBpiEiiMBj^^MSjHflip^  

^TKrJ^^^^^nij^^l 

The first razor with 
 TRAC II   a  pj vo tj n g head to 

Gillette s first            of the face 

twin-blade 

shaving system 
for a closer shave ^^^ 

The first razor with spring-mounted blades for increased closeness and comfort 

World s first triple-blade razor, taking shaving performance to a new level 

New marketing campaign including top NASCAR drivers 

^^^K^^^^^H^^B  

Hi 

Disruptive Innovation
Commercial Innovation  

First five-blade shaving system with unique trimmer blade, setting a new standard for shaving
closeness and comfort 

New marketing campaign featuring three of the world s top athletes 

jTSirrTrwiMl
 
 m 
^^^n ^2 w ^^^j
 E1Bji TC^H ;1lji U^H            HilflBr 

J
j^^^ffljEB I            a/ul /C^
 Ag 1^5   8 
j^ 1  ^^9 ^^^ y   1 
 ^Blffim!! mS|^ n a^  
IHVI* k   
 ^j|ujjn^  9|^^^nnlffll|j |sij^niMHsll kifl
_^@o! vm^^^Q ^n^^R
^^^^^^ffi^fjgig^j^M^^w^m^
     mmm jjB  ^^gj ^^B
IK^flV B f            S ^^^^
i            j         B    JlBaliBilEnBEaSalBnEBaillMiiBiiiiHB j 

m  ha  iiMM|||||ij||i|i||||||w 

''^A-    -^ ^^^^^^B           t     ^     f   
 \  M   TECflftT?T:?i l
- -    . j ^^^m^   hri^J  HflAAfi^^TOJMi^u^H^^^^^^^^BW^
^   juwttlirall ^BalBiiiaJKlgHMwajBiiuMnta^^BalimMJ  b^m 
ILti  abc  iHHMIHMIWP lH9MIIIII     ^Hi^YililuiUMiIllE |^^ ^M^^ny^u_
 ^^^^^^k   l^^n^a * .                                                           ^   ^   (  m   ^   K^VI^m
       . j            ju^^^^ u^^tf^uS  ^R^^g  HHw^Jn^^ff
^^^^^^9^V^?fS|r ^^^wj^^^^^l  * w  ^KB iihbk   1111*1 MiPBHiIK3^B ^^^^^HHiiWBfia ^SffiTOti
^  *   ^^^SmffSt   \    *  ^   NlHlt    ^   JFHRIIgJp* 
^  L  ft- ^^^^HiBH            I^IH^^^B^^^I^^K4hli *| i hH^*lQ i Q i ^^^H^HU^MnE     ^^*I^K 

^Es^^J jO L *  * ^IfllliMlllilllllllllllll^l            I^B^^aikks ^S^^^s^B ^K^^I^N?^P^fffnHlBt ^ ^
^^     t  ^ ~    oijJL^y^v ^    ..^^jf* K jp^t ^RHPnPWRS^Ii
 w*^*- f ^  ^ l8B8BfflBP. ;  ^- -^*  ^ tsSS^S 
  ffT   ^ 1.1^^j^jjimm^tjgMjmjjg^ijsg^^    .    r   ^9llL|
^^BHVHHIHlK^B|||Hl^^^l ^^^fllffi^^^B  f  ^^p^gg^n^^^^^MB_**y^u^^^   F9IHH4L ^^Ir lBAvlHUH ^^E ^V^L.^^K ^^^uIvJ I^H 

^BK^H3 Mil i j   sjii   bm  iB^s^^^^^^^^^^BjB3o4 51IE^^M*^^B ^I^^^M^I ~ IMIHRNHHI i?
 MlfllllH^^^IIIIJ  

^^^BZ^^S^^^u ^llll VSlHHHlll MHn^n!
   *.   ***      ^^  *u- gi   ,   ^^m  A* v 

MHWHMIMHMMi    m* p*-   ._      H!MHHI_r*   v* **
 
^^n^^UukUtUlii^Sflmj^m^^^HHHHflHIIBflkg^F^^^  jrgj ^A * %
^  

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^W -lBBHIR^   -   wir/   r   ^Bk H^DBi 

29 The Procter   Gamble Company 

^ot  

Since the beginning of the decade, P G has more than doubled the number of brands in its portfolio
that generate overa billion dollars in annual sales  from 10 to 24. The most recent addition to the
billion-dollar brand club is Gillette Fusion, which went from launch to billion-dollar stature in
just two years, the fastest in P G history. 

Global Beauty  
Grooming  

Global Household Care  

^C 

K?  

P G s brand portfolio now includes 20 brands that generate between $500 million and $1 billion in
annual sales. Combined with the billion-dollar brands, P G s top 44 brands account for more than
85% of P G sales and 90% of profits.
 Global Health   Well-Being  

The Procter   Gamble Company 32 

^Qiy^g            Ui  *  Vt            i  ft fi\f .  jHT
^^R^^OT^I^^MV^^l^^^^nffl^^^l  m            Sl^i J ^9flffl^^lS^^i|lj^^l  . i ^^^^^^w"'^ jBHii^^^B    ^^Blfflw^^l
 ^^H^^^^^mU^^^K            JMjf            L ^j^^^^^^^Xii*v   k  
I^^^^^^M^^^  ^^mm^^p^^^^ri  ^nu^^ ^^Mhjwiflfe^v hk^^^^^^Bflnji     ^^^^EK^^jbr ^ ^1 ^f^^^   ^^^Qra^^^^MMi
V^t^    / *     -v*             JUJjljJIjK^B^M
B|^^^^W^3^3 *^^^^ffl^^^^g  ^^qmj  ^B^jBn^ffiH^raiTiffiiB ^^^^^Mffl^^^^n ^^^^^^^^M^
 4  T9uij^^^^^^^l2! ^B^^Ewt  A^^^ ^^^^^^^g^^B^^^^ta            j^^^Jr ^^ffi
                     ll^^l  l  I , . ^jj^^H . ^HHh  iH
^^^^^Q^ ^^^^ ^^^^^^ffl^^^^^ ^^qmi  ^^^ffi ^f%. 4| AnlllHF^T^iniF ^fll^^^SU^^I
     t            i*     ^    flA.      ""*  ^    B^K*f  

^QPBtfvn *i .,  ^^^S*     i if  ^H^H^ /"' ..      _**k.^   H*I^M  

^H^^^mM^^l^^nn^^^SIQi^fll
^^^I^^^Qw^^l*^^^nN^^^^^^M^^Q*^^^^^Zj4ffl^^Mi^QfI^^^Ku@iB*S^ ^^H^^Q%I^^MH^^^^3^^u^5^^^^D 

BB^P - *   / ^^^^^^^^^^B 
      . 

The Procter   Gamble Company       35

Financial Contents 

Management s Responsibility for Financial Reporting

36 

Management s Report on Internal Control
over Financial Reporting

37 

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

37 

Management s Discussion and Analysis 

Overview

39 

Summary of 2008 Results

42 

Forward-Looking Statements

42 

Results of Operations

42 

Segment Results

44 

Financial Condition

49 

Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates

51 

Other Information

54 

Audited Consolidated Financial Statements 

Consolidated Statements of Earnings

56 

Consolidated Balance Sheets

57 

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity

58 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

59 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

60 

36      The Procter   Gamble Company

Management s Responsibility for Financial Reporting 

At The Procter   Gamble Company, we take great pride in our long history of doing what s
right. If you analyze what s made our company successful over the years, you may focus on our
brands, our marketing strategies, our organization design and our ability to innovate. But if you
really want to get at what drives our company s success, the place to look is our people. Our
people are deeply committed to our Purpose, Values and Principles. It is this commitment to doing
what s right that unites us.

This commitment to doing what s right is embodied in our financial reporting. High-quality
financial reporting is our responsibility   one we execute with integrity, and within both the letter
and spirit of the law.

High-quality financial reporting is characterized by accuracy, objectivity and transparency.
Management is responsible for maintaining an effective system of internal controls over financial
reporting to deliver those characteristics in all material respects. The Board of Directors,
through its Audit Committee, provides oversight. We have engaged Deloitte   Touche LLP to audit our
Consolidated Financial Statements, on which they have issued an unqualified opinion.

Our commitment to providing timely, accurate and understandable information to investors
encompasses:

Communicating expectations to employees.   Every employee   from senior management on down   is
required to be trained on the Company s  Worldwide Business Conduct Manual,  which sets forth the
Company s commitment to conduct its business affairs with high ethical standards. Every employee is
held personally accountable for compliance and is provided several means of reporting any concerns
about violations of the  Worldwide Business Conduct Manual,  which is available on our website at
www.pg.com.

Maintaining a strong internal control environment.   Our system of internal controls includes written
policies and procedures, segregation of duties and the careful selection and development of
employees. The system is designed to provide reasonable assurance that transactions are executed as
authorized and appropriately recorded, that assets are safeguarded and that accounting records are
sufficiently reliable to permit the preparation of financial statements conforming in all material
respects with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. We monitor
these internal controls through control self-assessments conducted by business unit management. In
addition to performing financial and compliance audits around the world, including unannounced
audits, our Global Internal Audit organization provides training and continuously improves internal
control processes. Appropriate actions are taken by management to correct any identified control
deficiencies.

Executing financial stewardship.   We maintain specific programs and activities to ensure that
employees understand their fiduciary responsibilities to shareholders. This ongoing effort
encompasses financial discipline in strategic and daily business decisions and brings particular
focus to maintaining accurate financial reporting and effective controls through process
improvement, skill development and oversight.

Exerting rigorous oversight of the business.   We continuously review business results and strategic
choices. Our Global Leadership Council is actively involved   from understanding strategies to
reviewing key initiatives, financial performance and control assessments. The intent is to ensure
we remain objective, identify potential issues, continuously challenge each other and ensure
recognition and rewards are appropriately aligned with results.

Engaging our Disclosure Committee.   We maintain disclosure controls and procedures designed to
ensure that information required to be disclosed is recorded, processed, summarized and reported
timely and accurately. Our Disclosure Committee is a group of senior-level executives responsible
for evaluating disclosure implications of significant business activities and events. The Committee
reports its findings to the CEO and CFO, providing an effective process to evaluate our external
disclosure obligations.

Encouraging strong and effective corporate governance from our Board of Directors.   We have an
active, capable and diligent Board that meets the required standards for independence, and we
welcome the Board s oversight. Our Audit Committee comprises independent directors with significant
financial knowledge and experience. We review significant accounting policies, financial reporting
and internal control matters with them and encourage their independent discussions with external
auditors. Our corporate governance guidelines, as well as the charter of the Audit Committee and
certain other committees of our Board, are available on our website at www.pg.com.

P G has a strong history of doing what s right. Our employees embrace our Purpose, Values and
Principles. We take responsibility for the quality and accuracy of our financial reporting. We
present this information proudly, with the expectation that those who use it will understand our
company, recognize our commitment to performance with integrity and share our confidence in P G s
future.

A.G.
Lafley 

Clayton C. Daley, Jr.  

Chairman of the Board

Vice Chairman and 

and Chief Executive Officer

Chief Financial Officer 

The Procter   Gamble Company      37

Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting of The Procter   Gamble Company (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended). Our internal control over financial reporting is
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles in the United States of America.

Strong internal controls is an objective that is reinforced through our  Worldwide Business Conduct
Manual,  which sets forth our commitment to conduct business with integrity, and within both the
letter and the spirit of the law. The Company s internal control over financial reporting includes
a Control Self-Assessment Program that is conducted annually by substantially all areas of the
Company and is audited by the internal audit function. Management takes the appropriate action to
correct any identified control deficiencies. Because of its inherent
limitations, any system of
internal control over financial reporting, no matter how well designed, may not prevent or detect
misstatements due to the possibility that a control can be circumvented or overridden or that
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur that are not detected. Also, because of changes in
conditions, internal control effectiveness may vary over time.

Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as
of June 30, 2008, using criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) and concluded that the
Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2008, based
on these criteria.

Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2008, as
stated in their report which is included herein.

A.G. Lafley

Clayton C. Daley, Jr. 

Chairman of the Board

Vice Chairman and 

and Chief Executive Officer

Chief Financial Officer 

August 12, 2008

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Deloitte 

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of The Procter   Gamble Company

We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets of The Procter   Gamble Company and
subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of June 30, 2008 and 2007, and the related Consolidated Statements
of Earnings, Shareholders  Equity, and Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended
June 30, 2008. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such Consolidated Financial Statements present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of the Company at June 30, 2008 and 2007, and the results of its operations
and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2008,
in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

As discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company adopted the provisions
of FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of
FASB Statement No. 109,  effective July 1, 2007. Also, as discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting
for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87,
88, 106, and 132(R),  effective June 30, 2007.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2008,
based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated August 12, 2008,
expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting.

Cincinnati, Ohio 
August 12, 2008

38       The Procter   Gamble Company

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Deloitte 

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholders of  The Procter   Gamble Company

We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of The Procter   Gamble Company and
subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of June 30, 2008, based on criteria established in  Internal
Control    Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting
based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk,
and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the
supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons
performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and
other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to
error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any
evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods
are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of June 30, 2008, based on the criteria established in  Internal
Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended June 30,
2008 of the Company and our report dated August 12, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion on those
financial statements and included an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company s adoption of the
provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an
interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,  effective July 1, 2007 and the Company s adoption of the
provisions of SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R),  effective June
30, 2007.

Cincinnati, Ohio 
August 12, 2008

The Procter   Gamble Company       39

Management s Discussion and Analysis 

The purpose of this discussion is to provide an understanding of P G s financial results and
condition by focusing on changes in certain key measures from year to year. Management s Discussion
and Analysis (MD A) is organized in the following sections:

Overview 

Forward-Looking Statements 

Results of Operations 

Segment Results 

Financial Condition 

Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates 

Other Information 

Throughout MD A, we refer to measures used by management to evaluate performance including unit
volume growth, net outside sales and after-tax profit. We also refer to a number of financial
measures that are not defined under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America (U.S. GAAP), including organic sales growth, free cash flow and free cash flow
productivity. We believe these measures provide investors with important information that is useful
in understanding our business results and trends. The explanation of these measures at the end of
MD A provides more details on the use and the derivation of these measures. Management also uses
certain market share and market consumption estimates to evaluate performance relative to
competition despite some limitations on the availability and comparability of share information.
References to market share and market consumption in MD A are based on a combination of
vendor-reported consumption and market size data, as well as internal estimates.

On October 1, 2005, we completed the acquisition of The Gillette Company for $53.4 billion. The
Gillette acquisition ultimately resulted in the creation of Grooming, a new reportable segment,
primarily consisting of Gillette s Blades and Razors and Braun businesses. Results of Gillette s
Personal Care, Oral Care and Duracell businesses were primarily subsumed within the Beauty, the
Health Care and the Fabric Care and Home Care reportable segments, respectively. Our discussion of
2007 results within MD A are in comparison to 2006 results that included the Gillette business only
for the nine-month period from October 1, 2005 (the acquisition date) through June 30, 2006. We
previously provided details regarding the changes to our reportable segment structure resulting
from the integration of the Gillette businesses (as presented in our Form 8-K filed on October 31,
2007).

OVERVIEW 

P G s business is focused on providing branded consumer goods products. Our goal is to provide
products of superior quality and value to improve the lives of the world s consumers. We believe
this will result in leadership sales, profits and value creation, allowing employees, shareholders
and the communities in which we operate to prosper.

Our products are sold in more than 180 countries primarily through mass merchandisers, grocery
stores, membership club stores and drug stores. We continue to expand our presence in other
channels including department stores, salons and  high frequency stores,  the neighborhood stores
which serve many consumers in developing markets. We have on-the-ground operations in approximately
80 countries.

Our market environment is highly competitive, with global, regional and local competitors. In many
of the markets and industry segments in which we sell our products, we compete against other
branded products as well as retailers  private-label brands. Additionally, many of the product
segments in which we compete are differentiated by price (referred to as premium, mid-tier and
value-tier products). Generally speaking, we compete with premium and mid-tier products and are
well positioned in the industry segments and markets in which we operate often holding a leadership
or significant market share position.

Organizational Structure 

Our organizational structure is comprised of three Global Business Units (GBUs) and a Global
Operations group. The Global Operations group consists of the Market Development Organization (MDO)
and Global Business Services (GBS).

GLOBAL BUSINESS UNITS 

Our three GBUs are Beauty, Health and Well-Being, and Household Care. The primary responsibility of
the GBUs is to develop the overall strategy for our brands. They identify common consumer needs,
develop new product innovations and upgrades, and build our brands through effective commercial
innovations, marketing and sales.

Under U.S. GAAP, the business units comprising the GBUs are aggregated into six reportable
segments: Beauty; Grooming; Health Care; Snacks, Coffee and Pet Care; Fabric Care and Home Care;
and Baby Care and Family Care. The following provides additional detail on our GBUs and reportable
segments and the key product and brand composition within each.

40       The Procter   Gamble Company

Management s Discussion and Analysis  

Reportable  
       
      % of  
       
      % of Net  

GBU  
       
      Segment  
       
      Net Sales  
     *  
      Earnings  
     *  
      Key Products  
       
      Billion-Dollar Brands  

beauty 

Beauty

23 
     % 

22 
     % 
       
     Cosmetics, Deodorants, 
Hair Care, Personal 
Cleansing, Prestige 
Fragrances, Skin Care

Head   Shoulders, 
Olay, Pantene, Wella 

Grooming

10 
     % 

13 
     % 
       
     Blades and Razors,
Electric Hair Removal
Devices, Face and Shave
Products, Home
Appliances

Braun, Fusion, 
Gillette, Mach3 

health and well-being  

Health Care

17 
     % 

20 
     % 
       
     Feminine Care, Oral 
Care, Personal Health 
Care, Pharmaceuticals

Actonel, Always, 
Crest, Oral-B 

Snacks, Coffee
and Pet Care

6 
     % 

4 
     % 
       
     Coffee, Pet Food, Snacks

Folgers, lams, 
Pringles 

household care  

Fabric Care and
Home Care

28 
     % 

27 
     % 
       
     Air Care, Batteries, 
Dish Care, Fabric Care, 
Surface Care

Ariel, Dawn, Downy, 
Duracell, Gain, Tide 

Baby Care and
Family Care

16 
     % 

14 
     % 
       
     Baby Wipes, Bath 
Tissue, Diapers, Facial 
Tissue, Paper Towels

Bounty, Charmin, 
Pampers 

* 
       
     Percent of net sales and net earnings for the year ended June 30, 2008 (excluding results held in
Corporate). 

Beauty  

Beauty:   We are a global market leader in beauty and compete in markets which comprise approximately
$230 billion in global retail sales. Most of the beauty markets in which we compete are highly
fragmented with a large number of global and local competitors. We are the global market leader in
hair care with over 20% of the global market share. In skin care, we compete primarily with the
Olay brand, which is the top facial skin care retail brand in the world. We are also one of the
global market leaders in prestige fragrances, primarily behind the Gucci, Hugo Boss and Dolce  
Gabbana fragrance brands.

Grooming:   This segment consists of blades and razors, face and shave preparation products (such as
shaving cream), electric hair removal devices and small household appliances. We hold leadership
market share in the manual blades and razors market on a global basis and in almost all of the
geographies in which we compete. Our global manual blades and razors market share is about 70%,
primarily behind Mach3, Fusion, Venus and the Gillette franchise. Our electric hair removal devices
and small home appliances are sold under the Braun brand in a number of markets around the world,
where we compete against both global and regional competitors. Our primary focus in this area is in
electric hair removal devices, such as electric razors and epilators, where we hold over 30% and
over 50% of the male and female markets, respectively.

Health and Well-Being  

Health Care:   We compete in oral care, feminine care, and pharmaceuticals and personal health. In
oral care, there are several global competitors in the market, and we have the number two market
share position at approximately 20% of the global market. We are the global market leader in the
feminine care category with about one-third of the global market share. In pharmaceuticals and
personal health, we have approximately one-third of the global bisphosphonates market for the
treatment of osteoporosis under the Actonel brand. We are the market leader in nonprescription
heartburn medications and in respiratory treatments behind Prilosec OTC and Vicks, respectively.

Snacks, Coffee and Pet Care:   In snacks, we compete against both global and local competitors and
have a global market share of approximately 10% in the potato chips market behind our Pringles
brand. Our coffee business competes almost solely in North America, where we hold a leadership
position with approximately one-third of the U.S. market, primarily behind our Folgers brand. We
have announced plans to separate our coffee business and merge it with The J. M. Smucker Company in
a transaction that is expected to close in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. In pet care, we
compete in several markets around the globe in the premium pet care segment, behind the lams and
Eukanuba brands. The vast majority of our pet care business is in North America, where we have
about a 10% share of the market.

Household Care  

Fabric Care and Home Care:   This segment is comprised of a variety of fabric care products,
including laundry cleaning products and fabric conditioners; home care products, including dish
care, surface cleaners and air fresheners; and batteries. In fabric care, we generally have the
number one or number two share position in the markets in which we compete and are the global
market leader, with approximately one-third of the global market share. Our global home care market
share is about 20% across the categories in which we compete. In batteries, we compete primarily
behind the Duracell brand and have over 40% of the global alkaline battery market share.

Baby Care and Family Care:   In baby care, we compete primarily in diapers, training pants and baby
wipes, with over one-third of the global market share. We are the number one or number two baby
care competitor in most of the key markets in which we compete, primarily behind Pampers, the
Company s largest brand, with annual net sales of approximately $8 billion. Our family care
business is predominantly a North American business comprised primarily of the Bounty paper towel
and Charmin toilet tissue brands, with U.S. market shares of over 40% and over 25%, respectively.

Management s Discussion and Analysis 

The Procter   Gamble Company      41 

GLOBAL OPERATIONS 

Market Development Organization  

Our MDO is responsible for developing go-to-market plans at the local level. The MDO includes
dedicated retail customer, trade channel and country-specific teams. It is organized along seven
geographic regions: North America, Western Europe, Northeast Asia, Central   Eastern Europe/Middle
East/Africa, Latin America, ASEAN/Australia/lndia and Greater China. Throughout MD A, we reference
business results in developing markets, which we define as the aggregate of Central   Eastern
Europe/Middle East/Africa, Latin America, ASEAN/Australia/ India and Greater China, and developed
markets, which are comprised of North America, Western Europe and Northeast Asia.

Global Business Services  

GBS provides technology, processes and standard data tools to enable the GBUs and the MDO to better
understand the business and better serve consumers and customers. The
GBS organization is
responsible for providing world-class solutions at a low cost and with minimal capital investment.

Strategic Focus 

P G is focused on strategies that we believe are right for the long-term health of the Company and
will increase returns for our shareholders. The Company s annual financial targets are:

Organic sales growth of 4% to 6%. This is comprised of: 

3% to 5% pre-Gillette organic sales growth target, plus 

1% of growth acceleration behind revenue synergies associated
with the Gillette acquisition. 

Diluted net earnings per share (EPS) growth of 10% or better,excluding the net impact of Gillette dilution. 

Free cash flow productivity of 90% or greater (defined as the ratio
of operating cash flow less capital expenditures to net earnings). 

Capital spending at or below 4% of net sales annually. 

In order to achieve these targets, we focus on our core strengths of consumer understanding,
branding, innovation, go-to-market capability and global scale and scope against the following
growth areas:

Grow our leading brands in our biggest markets and with our
winning customers. 

Shift our portfolio mix to faster-growing businesses with higher
gross margins that are less asset-intensive. 

Grow disproportionately in developing markets and with value-conscious consumers. 

To sustain consistent and reliable sales and earnings growth in line with our financial targets, we
have identified four key enablers:

Building a diversified and balanced portfolio of businesses, brands and geographies to
deliver consistent, reliable top- and bottom-line growth.   Our portfolio of businesses provides
a unique combination of stability, scale and growth. We compete primarily in 22 global product
categories and are a market leader in over
two-thirds of these categories. In addition, our portfolio includes 24 brands that generate over
$1 billion in annual sales and 20 brands that generate between $500 million and $1 billion in
annual sales. Combined, these 44 brands account for 85% or more of our sales and profits. These
brands are platforms for future innovations that will drive sales growth, expand categories for
retail customers and differentiate brands in the minds of consumers. Our geographic portfolio
includes a healthy balance of developed and developing market businesses. Approximately 40% of
sales are generated from the United States, our home market, and developing markets account for
approximately 30% of sales. We will continue to invest to grow market sizes and share in developed
regions, and will continue to expand our product range in faster-growing developing markets. 

Investing in innovation and core P G capabilities and strengths to enable us to reach more of
the world s consumers with quality, affordable products.   This includes expanding our presence
in markets and reaching more consumers where we are underrepresented, including
value-conscious consumers. 

Leveraging the Company s organizational structure to drive clear focus, accountability and
improved go-to-market capability.   We have an organizational structure that works together to leverage our knowledge and scale at the
global level with a deep understanding of the consumer and customer at the local level.

The GBU organizations leverage their consumer understanding to
develop the overall strategy for our brands. They identify common
consumer needs, develop new products and build our brands
through effective marketing innovations and product upgrades.
The GBU is focused on winning the  second moment of truth  
when the consumer uses the product and evaluates how well the
product meets his or her expectations. 

The MDO develops go-to-market plans at the local level, leveraging their understanding of the local consumers and customers.
The MDO is focused on winning the  first moment of truth  
when a consumer stands in front of the shelf and chooses a
product from among many competitive offerings. 

Global Business Services operates as the  back office  for the GBUs
and the MDO, providing cost-effective world-class technology,
processes and standard data tools to better understand the business and better serve consumers and customers. GBS personnel,
or highly efficient and effective third-party partners, provide
these services. 

Focusing on cost improvement and cash productivity.   Each organization is evaluated on its
ability to support the Company s financial goals and increase total shareholder return. This
includes an evaluation of net sales growth, earnings growth, profit margin expansion and cash
productivity. Our organizations are evaluated on their ability to generate cash, for example,
by increasing productivity, improving capacity utilization, meeting capital spending targets
and reducing working capital required to run the business. 

42      The Procter   Gamble Company

Management s Discussion and Analysis  

SUMMARY OF 2008 RESULTS 

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, we delivered our seventh consecutive year of sales growth
and free cash flow productivity at or above our stated targets.

Organic sales, which exclude the impacts of acquisitions, divestitures
and foreign exchange, increased 5%, in line with our post-Gillette 
    organic sales growth target range of 4% to 6%. 

Every reportable segment delivered year-on-year organic sales
growth. 

Earnings per share grew behind 11% operating profit growth. 

Cash flow from operating activities was $15.8 billion. 

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

We discuss expectations regarding future performance, events and outcomes, such as our business
outlook and objectives, in annual and quarterly reports, press releases and other written and oral
communications. All such statements, except for historical and present factual information, are
 forward-looking statements,  and are based on financial data and our business plans available only
as of the time the statements are made, which may become out-of-date or incomplete. We assume no
obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events
or other factors. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and investors must recognize
that events could be significantly different from our expectations.

Ability to Achieve Business Plans.   We are a consumer products company and rely on continued demand
for our brands and products. To achieve business goals, we must develop and sell products that
appeal to consumers and retail trade customers. Our continued success is dependent on leading-edge
innovation with respect to both products and operations and on the continued positive reputations
of our brands. This means we must be able to obtain patents and respond to technological advances
and patents granted to competition. Our success is also dependent on effective sales, advertising
and marketing programs in an increasingly fragmented media environment. Our ability to innovate and
execute in these areas will determine the extent to which we are able to grow existing sales and
volume profitably, especially with respect to the product categories and geographic markets
(including developing markets) in which we have chosen to focus. There are high levels of
competitive activity in the environments in which we operate. To address these challenges, we must
respond to competitive factors, including pricing, promotional incentives, trade terms and product
initiatives. We must manage each of these factors, as well as maintain mutually beneficial
relationships with our key customers, in order to effectively compete and achieve our business
plans. Since our goals include a growth component tied to acquisitions, we must manage and
integrate key acquisitions, such as the Gillette and Wella acquisitions, including achieving the
cost and growth synergies in accordance with stated goals.

Cost     Pressures.   Our costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in commodity
prices, raw materials, cost of labor, foreign exchange and interest rates. Therefore, our success
is dependent, in part, on our continued ability to manage these fluctuations through pricing
actions, cost savings projects, sourcing decisions and certain hedging transactions. We also must
manage our debt and currency exposure, especially in volatile countries. We need to maintain key
manufacturing and supply arrangements, including sole supplier and sole manufacturing plant
arrangements. We must implement, achieve and sustain cost improvement plans, including our
outsourcing projects and those related to general overhead and workforce rationalization.

Global Economic Conditions.   Economic changes, terrorist activity and political unrest may result in
business interruption, inflation, deflation or decreased demand for our products. Our success will
depend, in part, on our ability to manage continued global political and/or economic uncertainty,
especially in our significant geographic markets, as well as any political or economic disruption
due to terrorist and other hostile activities.

Regulatory Environment.   Changes in laws, regulations and the related interpretations may alter the
environment in which we do business. This includes changes in environmental, competitive and
product-related laws, as well as changes in accounting standards and taxation requirements. Our
ability to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters (including product liability, patent,
intellectual property and competition law matters) and to resolve pending legal matters within
current estimates may impact our results.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Net Sales 

Net sales increased 9% in 2008 to $83.5 billion behind 4% unit volume growth, a favorable 5%
foreign exchange impact and a positive 1% pricing impact. Favorable foreign exchange resulted
primarily from the strengthening of European and other currencies relative to the U.S. dollar.
Price increases were taken across a number of our businesses primarily to offset higher commodity
costs. Mix had a negative 1 % impact on net sales primarily due to disproportionate growth in
developing regions, where selling prices are below the Company average. Each reportable segment
posted year-on-year volume growth, with mid-single-digit growth in Fabric Care and Home Care, Baby
Care and Family Care, Grooming and Health Care and low-single-digit growth in Beauty and Snacks,
Coffee and Pet Care. Each geographic region posted  year-on-year volume growth except Western
Europe, which was down low-single digits due to the impact of divestitures. Excluding the impact of
acquisitions and divestitures, every geographic region delivered year-on-year volume growth. Volume
grew primarily behind initiative activity on key brands and continued double-digit growth in
developing regions. Organic sales increased 5% behind organic volume growth of 5%, which excludes
the impact of acquisitions and divestitures. Each reportable segment posted year-on-year organic
sales and organic volume growth.

Management s Discussion and Analysis  
       
     The Procter   Gamble Company      43 

Net sales increased 12% in 2007 to $76.5 billion. Sales were up behind 9% unit volume
growth, including the impact of an extra three months of Gillette results in 2007. Organic volume
increased 5%. Developing regions continued to lead the growth with double-digit increases for the
year. All reportable segments increased organic volume for the year except the Snacks, Coffee and
Pet Care segment. Higher pricing, primarily in coffee and Health Care, contributed 1% to sales
growth. Product mix had no net impact on sales as a more premium product mix driven by the
additional three months of Gillette results in 2007 was offset by the negative mix impact of
disproportionate growth in developing markets, where the average unit sales price is lower than the
Company average. Favorable foreign exchange contributed 2% to net sales growth. Organic sales
increased 5% versus 2006 with each reportable segment posting year-on-year growth.

NET SALES  
(in billions of dollars)

DEVELOPING MARKETS  
(% of net sales)

Operating Costs 

Gross margin was down 70 basis points in 2008 to 51.3% of net sales. Commodity and energy cost
increases had a negative impact on gross margin of about 200 basis points. These were largely
offset by the benefits of scale leverage from volume growth and cost savings projects resulting
from manufacturing efficiency improvements and product reformulations.

Gross margin was 52.0% in 2007, an increase of 60 basis points versus the prior year. Higher
commodity and energy costs had a negative impact of approximately 60 basis points on gross margin.
These were more than offset by scale leverage from organic volume growth, higher pricing and cost
savings projects. The additional three months of the Gillette business in 2007, which has a higher
gross margin than the base P G business, drove additional gross margin improvement of approximately
30 basis points.

GROSS MARGIN  
(% of net sales)

Total selling, general and administrative expenses (SG A) increased 6% to $25.7 billion in 2008.
The increase was driven by higher overhead and marketing spending to support business growth. SG A
as a percentage of net sales was down 100 basis points. Overhead spending was down as a percentage
of net sales for the total Company and for each reportable segment primarily due to volume scale
leverage, a focus on overhead productivity and incremental synergy savings from the Gillette
acquisition. Marketing spending as a percentage of net sales was in line with previous year levels.

SG A in 2007 increased 11 %, or $2.5 billion, to $24.3 billion. SG A increased primarily due to the
additional three months of Gillette in 2007 and to support business growth, partially offset by
overhead and media purchasing synergies from the Gillette integration. The additional three months
of Gillette in 2007 accounted for approximately $1.1 billion of the increase, including
approximately $160 million of incremental acquisition-related expenses. The incremental
acquisition-related expenses were comprised of three additional months of intangible asset
amortization resulting from revaluing intangible assets in the opening balance sheet of the
acquired Gillette business, costs to restructure the business post-acquisition and other
integration-related expenses. SG A as a percentage of net sales was 31.8% in 2007, an improvement
of 20 basis points versus 2006. Overhead expenses as a percentage of net sales were down due to
volume scale leverage, overhead cost control and synergies from the Gillette integration. Marketing
spending as a percentage of net sales in 2007 was roughly in line with prior year levels despite
media purchasing synergies generated by the Gillette acquisition and a continued focus on marketing
return-on-investment (ROI) programs.

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE  
(% of net sales)

44      The Procter   Gamble Company 
       
      Management s Discussion and Analysis  

Non-Operating Items 

Non-operating items primarily include interest expense, divestiture gains and interest and
investment income. Interest expense increased 13% to $1.5 billion in 2008 driven by a higher
interest rate on our long-term borrowings and a higher debt level to fund the Company s previously
announced share repurchase program. Under this share repurchase program, which began in July 2007,
we plan to repurchase between $24 $30 billion of P G stock over a three-year period. In 2007,
interest expense increased 17% to $1.3 billion due to the financing costs associated with the debt
issued to fund the share repurchase program executed in conjunction with the acquisition of
Gillette in October 2005. The repurchase program associated with Gillette was completed in July
2006.

Other non-operating income in 2008 decreased $102 million versus the prior year period primarily
due to lower current period interest income. Interest income declined in 2008 primarily due to
lower interest rates and cash balances. Divestiture gains on the sale of minor brands in 2008 were
in line with previous year levels. Other non-operating income increased $281 million in 2007 to
$564 million primarily due to higher divestiture gains in 2007.

Our tax rate declined in 2008 from 29.7% to 24.9%. Approximately 3 percentage points of this
decline was due to discrete adjustments to reserves for previously existing uncertain tax positions
in the U.S. and other countries. The balance of the decline was primarily driven by a more
favorable geographic mix of earnings and a reduction in the German statutory tax rate, which
reduced our deferred tax liabilities related to acquired intangible assets. Our effective tax rate
in 2007 was down 30 basis points versus 2006 primarily due to a more favorable country mix impact
in 2007, partially offset by higher levels of reserve releases in 2006.

Net Earnings 

Net earnings increased 17% to $12.1 billion in 2008 behind sales growth and a 100-basis point
improvement in net earnings margin. Net earnings margin increased due
to lower SG A as a percentage
of net sales and a lower tax rate, which more than offset lower gross margin. Net earnings in 2007
increased 19% to $10.3 billion behind sales growth, including the additional three months of
Gillette results and earnings margin expansion. Net earnings margin expanded 80 basis points
primarily behind gross margin improvement.

Diluted net earnings per share in 2008 were up 20% versus the prior year to $3.64 per share.
Diluted net earnings per share growth exceeded net earnings growth due to share repurchase
activity. We repurchased $10 billion of treasury shares in 2008 under a previously announced share
buyback program that started in July 2007. Gillette was modestly accretive to our earnings per
share results in 2008, compared to dilution of approximately $0.10 $0.12 per share in 2007. The
elimination of Gillette dilution on our earnings per share drove approximately 4 percentage points
of earnings per share growth in 2008. Diluted net earnings per share in 2007 increased 15% to $3.04
primarily behind earnings growth, partially offset by the impact of a net increase in the weighted
average shares outstanding in 2007 versus 2006 resulting from the incremental shares issued in conjunction with the Gillette acquisition on
October 1, 2005.

DILUTED NET EARNINGS  
(per common share)

SEGMENT RESULTS 

Results for the segments reflect information on the same basis we use for internal management
reporting and performance evaluation. Within the Beauty GBU, we provide data for the Beauty and the
Grooming reportable segments. In the Health and Well-Being GBU, we provide data for the Health Care
and the Snacks, Coffee and Pet Care reportable segments. In the Household Care GBU, we provide data
for the Fabric Care and Home Care and the Baby Care and Family Care reportable segments.

The results of these reportable business segments do not include certain non-business unit specific
costs such as interest expense, investing activities and certain restructuring costs. These costs
are reported in our Corporate segment and are included as part of our Corporate segment discussion.
Additionally, as described in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we have investments
in certain companies over which we exert significant influence, but do not control the financial
and operating decisions and, therefore, do not consolidate them ( unconsolidated entities ). Since
certain of these investments are managed as integral parts of the Company s business units, they
are accounted for as if they were consolidated subsidiaries for management and segment reporting
purposes. This means pretax earnings in the business units include 100% of each pretax income
statement component. In determining after-tax earnings in the business units, we eliminate the
share of earnings applicable to other ownership interests, in a manner similar to minority
interest, and apply the statutory tax rates. Eliminations to adjust each line item to U.S. GAAP are
included in our Corporate segment.

Beauty 

BEAUTY 

* 
       
     The Gillette business was acquired on October 1, 2005. Therefore, the fiscal 2007 growth rates
are versus a base period that included only 9 months of Gillette Beauty results (e.g.,
deodorants products). 

Beauty net sales increased 9% in 2008 to $19.5 billion behind 2% volume growth and 6% of
favorable foreign exchange. Favorable product mix had a positive 1% impact on net sales
primarily due to stronger growth in skin care and prestige fragrances, which have

Management s Discussion and Analysis  
       
     The Procter   Gamble Company     45 

Sales percentage changes are approximations based on quantitative formulas that are consistently
applied. 

higher than segment average unit selling prices. This more than offset the impact of
disproportionate growth in developing regions, which have lower selling prices than the segment
average. Skin care volume was up mid-single digits driven by growth on Olay behind the Definity and
Regenerist initiatives. Our global skin care market share was up slightly, driven primarily by
about a 1 point increase in our U.S. market share. Prestige fragrances volume was up low-single
digits and organic volume was up high-single digits behind new product launches on Dolce   Gabbana
and Hugo Boss. Retail hair care volume was up mid-single digits, led by high-single-digit growth in
developing markets. Retail hair care volume in developed regions was flat as a double-digit volume
increase on Head   Shoulders was offset by a double-digit volume decline on Pantene in North
America. Hair color volume increased low-single digits as growth on Nice  N Easy behind the Perfect
10 launch more than offset declines on other color brands. Professional hair care volume declined
mid-single digits as growth from color was more than offset by declines in care and styling.
Overall, global hair care market share was in line with the prior year level. Volume in deodorants
was down low-single digits primarily due to competitive activity and market softness in Western
Europe.

Net earnings in Beauty increased 5% to $2.7 billion in 2008 as the impact of higher sales was
partially offset by a lower net earnings margin. Net earnings margin was down 60-basis points as
lower gross margin and the impact of base period divestiture gains on minor brands more than offset
the benefit of a lower tax rate due to geographic mix. Gross margin was down due to higher
commodity costs, which more than offset the benefit of increased volume scale leverage and
manufacturing cost savings projects. SG A increased slightly as higher marketing spending as a
percentage of net sales was partially offset by lower overhead spending as a percentage of net
sales.

In 2007, Beauty net sales increased 7% to $17.9 billion behind 4% unit volume growth. Volume growth
was driven by initiative activity across categories and continued expansion in developing regions,
where volume increased high-single digits. Prestige fragrances volume was up double-digits behind
The One, Boss Selection and Boss Femme fragrance initiatives and the addition of Dolce   Gabbana.
Skin care volume was up high-single digits behind the Olay Definity and Regenerist product initiatives. Hair
care volume grew mid-single digits as a result of product initiatives on Pantene, Head   Shoulders
and Herbal Essences and continued expansion in developing regions. Beauty sales benefited from a 1
% positive mix impact primarily due to disproportionate growth in prestige fragrances, which has a
higher than segment average unit selling price. This was offset by higher levels of promotional
activity, which resulted in a negative 1% pricing impact. Favorable foreign exchange contributed 3%
to net sales. Net earnings increased 8% in 2007 to $2.6 billion primarily behind net sales growth.
Earnings margin increased 15 basis points primarily due to lower SG A as a percentage of net sales
and divestiture gains on several minor Beauty brands, partially offset by the negative mix impact
from lower SK-II shipments. SG A improved as higher marketing spending as a percentage of net sales
to support initiative activity was more than offset by lower overhead expenses as a percentage of
net sales resulting from the benefit of volume scale leverage and Gillette-related synergy savings.
SK-II shipments were down in 2007 due to the sales disruption in Asia resulting from the voluntary
temporary suspension of SK-II shipments in China early in the 2007 fiscal year.

* 
       
     The Gillette business was acquired on October 1, 2005. Therefore, the fiscal 2007 growth rates
are versus a base period that included only 9 months of Gillette Grooming results. 

Grooming net sales increased 11% to $8.3 billion in 2008. Net sales were up behind 5% volume
growth, a 7% favorable foreign exchange impact and a 2% positive pricing impact driven by price
increases on premium shaving systems. Product mix had a negative 3% impact on net sales as positive
product mix from growth on the premium-priced Fusion brand was more than offset by the impact of
disproportionate growth in developing regions, where selling prices are below the segment average.
Blades and razors volume increased high-single digits behind double-digit growth in developing
regions driven primarily by

46      The Procter   Gamble Company

Management s Discussion and Analysis  

Fusion
expansion and Prestobarba3  launch. In developed regions, blades and razors volume was
down low-single digits as double-digit growth on Fusion was more than offset by lower shipments of
legacy shaving systems. Fusion delivered more than $1 billion in net sales for 2008, making it the
Company s 24th billion-dollar brand. Braun volume was down mid-single digits primarily due to
supply constraints at a contract manufacturer, the announced exits of certain appliance businesses
and the divestiture of the thermometer and blood pressure devices business.

Net earnings in Grooming were up 21% in 2008 to $1.7 billion behind net sales growth and a
170-basis point earnings margin expansion. Earnings margin improved behind lower SG A as a
percentage of net sales, partially offset by a reduction in gross margin. Gross margin declined due
to higher costs incurred at a contract manufacturer on the Braun home appliance business, which
more than offset benefits from higher pricing and volume scale leverage. SG A as a percentage of
net sales was down primarily due to lower overhead spending driven largely by synergies from the
integration of Gillette into P G s infrastructure.

In 2007, net sales in Grooming increased 45% to $7.4 billion on 36% unit volume growth, including
the impact of the extra three months of Gillette results in fiscal 2007. Organic sales increased 6%
during the year, with organic volume up 2%. Blades and razors organic volume was up mid-single
digits primarily behind the continued expansion of the Fusion razor
system and growth of Mach3 in
countries where Fusion has not yet launched. Fusion was launched in North America in fiscal 2006
and expanded into other markets including Western Europe in fiscal 2007. In Braun, organic volume
was down low-single digits as the impact of the launches of 360 Complete and Contour razors in
North America and Pulsonic razors in Germany and Japan were more than offset by lower volume on
household appliances in Europe. Favorable product mix, primarily behind the launch of the premium
Fusion razors, contributed 3% to net sales. Price increases taken across most shaving systems added
an additional 2% to net sales and favorable foreign exchange added an additional 4%. Net earnings
increased 63% in 2007 to $1.4 billion. The extra three months of Gillette results in fiscal 2007
contributed 46% of the total earnings growth. The remaining growth was due to organic sales growth
and integration-driven synergy savings, partially offset by higher marketing investment behind
Fusion and incremental acquisition-related charges. We incurred approximately $40 million of
incremental acquisition-related charges in fiscal 2007. The incremental acquisition-related charges
are primarily comprised of amortization charges from revaluing intangible assets in the opening
balance sheet, partially offset by base period product costs related to revaluing Gillette s
opening inventory balance. Amortization charges were higher in fiscal 2007 due to the extra three
months of Gillette results in the period.

Health and Weil-Being 

HEALTH CARE 

* 
       
     The Gillette business was acquired on October 1, 2005. Therefore, the fiscal 2007 growth
rates are versus a base period that included only 9 months of Gillette Health Care results
(e.g., Oral-B). 

Health Care net sales increased 9% in 2008 to $14.6 billion behind a 4% increase in unit volume.
Foreign exchange had a positive 5% impact on net sales and price increases added 1% to net sales.
Disproportionate growth in developing regions, which have selling prices below the segment average,
resulted in a negative 1% mix impact. Feminine care volume increased mid-single digits and organic
volume was up high-single digits behind double-digit growth on Naturella and high-single digit
growth on Always, which more than offset a low-single digit decline on Tampax. Our global feminine
care market share increased slightly in 2008 to about 38%. Oral care volume was up mid-single
digits behind initiative-driven growth on Oral-B toothbrushes and Crest. U.S. market share on Crest
dentifrice was in line with the previous year. Volume in Pharmaceuticals and personal health was up
low-single digits as the impact of adding the Swiss Precision Diagnostics business was largely
offset by lower shipments of Actonel, Prilosec OTC and PuR. The PuR decline was from adjustments to
a Whirlpool    water filters licensing agreement. Prilosec OTC volume began to decline in the third
fiscal quarter of 2008 due to the recent loss of marketplace exclusivity and the entry of competing
products into the market. This is expected to continue and to have an adverse effect on the results
of the Health Care segment in future periods.

Net earnings in Health Care were up 12% in 2008 to $2.5 billion due to higher net sales and a
50-basis point improvement in net earnings margin. Net earnings margin increased as reduced SG A as
a percentage of net sales more than offset lower gross margin. Gross margin was down due to higher
commodity costs and a less profitable mix driven primarily by disproportionate growth in developing
regions and lower shipments of Prilosec OTC, which more than offset the benefit of increased volume
scale leverage and manufacturing cost savings. SG A improved primarily behind lower overhead
spending as a percentage of net sales due to a focus on productivity improvement and Gillette
synergy benefits.

Health Care net sales increased 13% in 2007 to $13.4 billion behind an 8% increase in unit volume.
Sales and volume were up as a result of three additional months of Gillette oral care results in
fiscal 2007 and growth on the base P G business. Health Care organic sales increased 7% behind 5%
organic volume growth. Oral care organic volume grew mid-single digits behind double-digit growth
in developing regions, high-single-digit growth on Oral-B and the launch of Crest Pro-Health
toothpaste in North America. Pharmaceuticals and personal health volume increased low-single digits
behind growth on

Management s Discussion and Analysis 

The Procter   Gamble Company      47 

Prilosec OTC, partially offset by lower volume on Actonel due to strong competitive activity
in the osteoporosis market. Our U.S. market share on Prilosec OTC increased about 1-point during
the year. Feminine care volume was up high-single digits, led by double-digit growth in developing
regions. Successful initiative activity in North America on the Always Clean and Fresh initiatives
and product upgrades on Tampax Pearl more than offset the impact of strong competitive activity in
Western Europe and Northeast Asia, resulting in a 1-point increase in our global feminine care
market share. Pricing, primarily in Pharmaceuticals and personal health, contributed 2% to segment
net sales growth. A more premium product mix added an additional 1% to net sales as
disproportionate growth on Crest Pro-Health in North America more than offset the negative impact
from higher relative growth in developing regions. Foreign exchange had a positive 2% impact on net
sales. Net earnings grew 22% to $2.2 billion in 2007 behind organic sales growth, the additional
three months of Gillette oral care results and earnings margin expansion. Earnings margin increased
120 basis points behind increased gross margin on our base business and lower SG A as a percentage
of net sales. SG A improved primarily due to lower overhead expenses as a percentage of net sales
resulting from volume scale leverage, Gillette synergy savings and lower research and development
costs in our Pharmaceuticals business driven by further leveraging external R D networks and higher
clinical milestone payments in the base period.

SNACKS, COFFEE AND PET CARE 

Snacks, Coffee and Pet Care net sales increased 7% to $4.9 billion in 2008. Net sales grew behind a
2% volume increase, a positive 3% price impact resulting from price increases in coffee and pet
care and a 3% favorable foreign exchange impact. Product mix had a negative 1% impact on net sales
from a decline in coffee volume, which has higher selling prices than the segment average. Snacks
volume was up high-single digits behind the launch of Rice Infusion in Western Europe and Extreme
Flavors and Pringles Stix in North America. Coffee volume declined low-single digits as growth from
the launch of the Dunkin  Donuts    line was more than offset by lower volume on the balance of the
business due to higher price gaps versus branded competition and reductions in trade inventory
levels ahead of an upcoming product restage. Coffee market share in the U.S. was up about 1 point
versus the prior year, primarily due to favorable mix impacts from the premium-priced Dunkin 
Donuts    line. In pet care, volume was down low-single digits due to negative impacts from the
voluntary wet pet food recall in the U.S. in March 2007 that contributed to about a 1% decline in
our U.S. market share.

Net earnings in Snacks, Coffee and Pet Care were $477 million in 2008, in line with the prior year.
Higher sales were offset by lower net earnings margin. Net earnings margin was down 70 basis points
as lower gross margin more than offset improved SG A expenses as a

percentage of net sales. Gross margin was down as higher commodity costs across the segment more
than offset price increases, base period pet food recall impacts and manufacturing cost savings.
SG A decreased as a percentage of net sales due to reductions in both overhead and marketing
spending as a percentage of net sales. Hurricane Katrina insurance payments were received in both
the current and previous fiscal years and, therefore, had minimal impact on the segment s
year-on-year net earnings growth rate.

We previously announced plans to separate our coffee business into a separate operating company. In
June 2008, we announced an agreement with The J. M. Smucker Company to merge the separated coffee
company into The J. M. Smucker Company in an all-stock reverse Morris Trust transaction. We expect
the transaction to close in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. The coffee business comprised $1.8
billion of net sales in 2008.

Snacks, Coffee and Pet Care net sales increased 4% in 2007 to $4.5 billion. Unit volume was in line
with the prior year as growth in coffee was offset by a decline in pet care. Snacks volume was in
line with the prior year. Coffee volume was up high-single digits primarily due to a low base
period that included a reduction in the coffee business from Hurricane Katrina and 2007 volume from
the launches of Folgers Simply Smooth and Gourmet Selections. Pet care volume was down mid-single
digits versus the year-ago period due to strong competitive activity and the impacts of a voluntary
recall. In March 2007, we voluntarily recalled certain lams and Eukanuba wet pet foods to help
ensure maximum pet safety following the discovery of contaminated materials at a pet food supplier.
Price increases in coffee and favorable product mix from disproportionate coffee growth each had a
positive 1% impact on net sales. Foreign exchange had a positive 2% impact on net sales. Net
earnings in 2007 increased 24% to $477 million. Earnings increased behind sales growth and a base
period comparison that included costs related to Hurricane Katrina, which more than offset a
decline in 2007 gross margin from the impacts of higher commodity costs and expenses associated
with the pet food recall.

Household Care 

FABRIC CARE AND HOME CARE 

* 
       
     The Gillette business was acquired on October 1, 2005. Therefore, the fiscal 2007 growth rates
are versus a base period that included only 9 months of Gillette Fabric Care and Home Care
results (e.g., batteries). 

Fabric Care and Home Care net sales in 2008 increased 11% to $23.8 billion. Volume was up 6%, price
increases added 1% and favorable foreign exchange added 5% to net sales growth. This was partially
offset by a negative 1% mix impact primarily from disproportionate growth in developing regions
and a shift toward large sizes in fabric care, both of which have selling prices below the segment

48      The Procter   Gamble Company

Management s Discussion and Analysis  

average. Fabric care volume increased mid-single digits behind high-single-digit growth in
developing regions and mid-single-digit growth in developed regions. Growth was driven by the
liquid laundry detergent compaction launch in North America and initiative activity on Tide, Gain,
Ariel and Downy. Home care volume was up mid-single digits due to double-digit growth in developing
regions and high-teens growth on Febreze from the launch of Febreze Candles. Batteries volume was
up mid-single digits behind double-digit growth in developing regions and mid-single-digit growth
in developed regions.

Net earnings in Fabric Care and Home Care increased 9% to $3.4 billion in 2008 primarily behind
higher net sales. Net earnings margin was down 20 basis points primarily due to lower gross margin,
partially offset by a reduction in SG A as a percentage of net sales. Gross margin was down due to
higher commodity costs, which more than offset benefits from pricing, increased volume scale
leverage and manufacturing cost savings projects. SG A improved as a percentage of net sales due to
lower overhead spending as a percentage of net sales resulting from a focus on overhead
productivity improvements.

Fabric Care and Home Care net sales increased 13% in 2007 to $21.5 billion. Sales growth was driven
by a 10% increase in volume and a 3% favorable foreign exchange impact. The extra three months of
batteries results in fiscal 2007 contributed 3% to the segment s sales growth and 2% to segment
volume growth. Volume was up high-single digits in both fabric care and home care led by
double-digit growth in developing regions. In developed regions, fabric care volume grew mid-single
digits and home care volume grew high-single digits behind product initiatives such as Tide Simple
Pleasures, Gain Joyful Expressions, Febreze Noticeables, upgrades on Swiffer and the launch of
Fairy auto-dishwashing in Western Europe. Our market share in both fabric care and home care
increased by about 1 point globally during the year. In batteries, organic volume increased
mid-single digits behind high-single-digit developing region growth from expanded distribution in
high-frequency stores in Latin America. Net earnings in 2007 were up 20% to $3.1 billion behind
organic sales growth, the additional three months of batteries results and an 80-basis point
improvement in net earnings margin. Earnings margin improved behind higher gross margin and lower
SG A as a percentage of net sales. The gross margin improvement was driven by scale benefits of
volume growth and cost savings projects that more than offset higher commodity costs. SG A improved
primarily behind lower overhead expenses as a percentage of net sales resulting from volume scale
leverage and Gillette synergy savings.

BABY CARE AND FAMILY CARE 

Baby Care and Family Care net sales increased 9% in 2008 to $13.9 billion. Volume was up 4%,
including the impact of the Western European family care divestiture. Price increases contributed 1% to net sales and foreign exchange had a positive 4% impact on net sales. Organic volume and
organic sales, which exclude the impacts of the Western European family care divestiture and
foreign exchange, both grew 8%. Organic volume growth was balanced across the segment with
high-single-digit growth in both baby care and family care. Baby care volume in developed regions
was up mid-single digits behind growth on the Pampers Baby Stages of Development and on the Baby
Dry Caterpillar Flex initiative. In developing regions, baby care volume was up double-digits
behind continued growth on Pampers. Baby care market share in the U.S. was up nearly 1 point to
about 29%. Family care volume was down low-single digits due to the divestiture of the Western
European family care business but was up high-single digits on an organic basis behind the Bounty
and Charmin product restages. U.S. market share on both Bounty and Charmin was up over 1 point to
about 45% and 28%, respectively.

Net earnings in Baby Care and Family Care were up 20% to $1.7 billion in 2008 behind higher net
sales and earnings margin expansion. Net earnings margin improved 110 basis points primarily behind
higher gross margin and lower SG A as a percentage of net sales. Gross margin was up due to a more
profitable product mix following the Western Europe family care divestiture, the benefit of
increased volume scale leverage, pricing and manufacturing cost savings projects, which more than
offset higher commodity and energy costs. SG A improved as a percentage of net sales due to lower
overhead spending as a percentage of net sales, partially offset by higher marketing expenses as a
percentage of net sales.

Baby Care and Family Care net sales increased 6% in 2007 to $12.7 billion behind 5% unit volume
growth. Baby care volume grew mid-single digits with developing regions up double digits. In
developed regions, baby care volume was up low-single digits as growth on Pampers Baby Stages of
Development and Baby Dry Caterpillar Flex more than offset softness on Pampers in Western Europe
and Luvs in North America from lower competitor pricing of both branded and private label products.
Family care volume increased mid-single digits behind product performance upgrades on Bounty and
continued growth on Bounty and Charmin Basic products. Disproportionate growth on baby care in
developing regions and on the Basic tier products, which have a lower average selling price, led to
a negative 1% mix impact. Favorable foreign exchange contributed 2% to sales growth. Net earnings
in Baby Care and Family Care increased 11% to $1.4 billion in 2007 behind net sales growth and a
50-basis point improvement in net earnings margin. Earnings margin increased as lower SG A as a
percentage of net sales more than offset a reduction in gross margin. Gross margin was down
slightly as manufacturing cost savings and volume scale leverage were more than offset by the
impact of higher pulp costs and a less profitable product mix. SG A improved as a percentage of net
sales due to lower overhead expenses from volume scale leverage and a reduction in marketing
expenses as a percentage of net sales.

Management s Discussion and Analysis 

The Procter   Gamble Company      49 

Corporate 

Corporate includes certain operating and non-operating activities not allocated to specific
business units. These include: the incidental businesses managed at the corporate level; financing
and investing activities; other general corporate items; the historical results of certain divested
brands and categories, including certain Gillette brands that were divested as required by
regulatory authorities in relation to the Gillette acquisition; and certain restructuring-type
activities to maintain a competitive cost structure, including manufacturing and workforce
rationalization. Corporate also includes reconciling items to adjust the accounting policies used
in the segments to U.S. GAAP. The most significant reconciling items include income taxes (to
adjust from statutory rates that are reflected in the segments to the overall Company effective tax
rate), adjustments for unconsolidated entities (to eliminate sales, cost of products sold and SG A
for entities that are consolidated in the segments but accounted for using the equity method for
U.S. GAAP) and minority interest adjustments for subsidiaries where we do not have 100% ownership.
Since both unconsolidated entities and less than 100% owned subsidiaries are managed as integral
parts of the Company, they are accounted for similar to a wholly owned subsidiary for management
and segment purposes. This means our segment results recognize 100% of each income statement
component through before-tax earnings in the segments, with eliminations for unconsolidated
entities in Corporate. In determining segment aftertax net earnings, we apply the statutory tax
rates (with adjustments to arrive at the Company s effective tax rate in Corporate) and eliminate
the share of earnings applicable to other ownership interests, in a manner similar to minority
interest.

Corporate net sales primarily reflect the adjustment to eliminate the sales of unconsolidated
entities included in business unit results. Net sales decreased $462 million primarily driven by
higher adjustments to eliminate the impact of joint venture net sales for unconsolidated entities
that are reflected as sales in the business segments. These adjustments increased due to sales
growth of existing unconsolidated entities and the addition of the Swiss Precision Diagnostics
business. In 2008, net earnings in Corporate increased $464 million. The increase was driven
primarily by a lower tax rate resulting from the net benefits of adjustments to reserves for
uncertain tax positions.

Corporate segment net earnings declined $235 million in 2007 primarily due to higher interest
expenses and higher Gillette integration costs. Interest expense was up $185 million primarily due
to the financing costs associated with the debt issued to fund the share repurchase program
announced in conjunction with the Gillette acquisition.

FINANCIAL CONDITION 

We believe our financial condition continues to be of high quality, as evidenced by our ability to
generate substantial cash from operations and ready access to capital markets at competitive
rates.

Operating cash flow provides the primary source of funds to finance operating needs and capital
expenditures. Excess operating cash is used first to fund shareholder dividends. Other
discretionary uses include share repurchases and  tack-on  acquisitions to complement

our portfolio of brands and geographies. As necessary, we may supplement operating cash flow with
debt to fund these activities. The overall cash position of the Company reflects our strong
business results and a global cash management strategy that takes into account liquidity
management, economic factors and tax considerations.

Operating Activities 

Operating cash flow was $15.8 billion in 2008, an increase of 18% over the prior year. Both
operating cash flow and the increase in operating cash flow over the prior year resulted primarily
from higher net earnings and non-cash charges (depreciation and amortization, stock-based
compensation and deferred income taxes). Working capital balances increased primarily to support
business growth resulting in a net use of cash. Inventory days on hand increased by 8 days
primarily due to foreign exchange and higher material costs, partially offset by accounts
receivable and accounts payable impacts. Accounts payable days were up 4 days due to higher
material values and increased capital expenditures in the fourth quarter. Accounts receivable days
were down 2 days primarily due to the harmonization of Gillette trade terms, which historically
carried longer payment terms than P G.

Operating cash flow in 2007 increased 18% to $13.4 billion. Operating cash flow increased as a
result of higher net earnings, including the benefit of an additional three months of Gillette in
2007. Net earnings, adjusted for non-cash items (primarily depreciation and amortization,
share-based compensation and deferred income taxes) was partially offset by cash used to fund
working capital. Working capital increased in 2007 primarily to support business growth.

Free Cash Flow.    We view free cash flow as an important measure because it is one factor impacting
the amount of cash available for dividends and discretionary investment. It is defined as operating
cash flow less capital expenditures and is one of the measures used to evaluate senior management
and determine their at-risk compensation. In 2008, free cash flow was $12.8 billion, compared to
$10.5 billion in 2007. Free cash flow increased primarily as a result of higher operating cash
flow. Capital expenditures increased from $2.9 billion in 2007 to $3.0 billion in 2008 representing
3.6% of net sales. Free cash flow productivity, defined as the ratio of free cash flow to net
earnings, was 106% in 2008, ahead of the Company s 90% target.

In 2007, free cash flow was $10.5 billion, compared to $8.7 billion in 2006 as a result of higher
operating cash flow. Free cash flow productivity was 101 % in 2007.

FREE CASH FLOW PRODUCTIVITY  
(% of net earnings)

50     The Procter   Gamble Company

Management s Discussion and Analysis  

Investing Activities 

Net investing activities used $2.5 billion of cash in both 2008 and 2007.

Acquisitions.   Acquisitions used $381 million of cash in 2008 primarily for the acquisition of
Frederic Fekkai, a premium hair care brand, in Beauty. In 2007, acquisitions used $492 million of
cash for several minor transactions, primarily in Beauty and Health Care, including the Swiss
Precision Diagnostics business.

Capital Spending.   We view capital spending efficiency as a critical component of our overall cash
management strategy. Capital expenditures in 2008 were $3.0 billion, compared to $2.9 billion in
2007. Capital spending as a percentage of net sales was 3.6% in 2008, compared to 3.9% in 2007.

CAPITAL SPENDING  
(% of net sales)

Proceeds from Asset Sales.   Proceeds from asset sales were $928 million in 2008 primarily behind the
sale of our Western Europe family care business as well as several minor Beauty and Health Care
divestitures. In 2007, proceeds from asset sales were $281 million primarily due to the
divestitures of Pert in North America, Sure and several non-strategic minor Beauty brands.

Financing Activities 

Dividend Payments.   Our first discretionary use of cash is dividend payments. Dividends per common
share increased 13% to $1.45 per share in 2008. This increase represents the 52nd consecutive
fiscal year the Company has increased its common share dividend. Total dividend payments to both
common and preferred shareholders were $4.7 billion, $4.2 billion and $3.7 billion in 2008, 2007
and 2006, respectively.

DIVIDENDS  
(per common share)

Long-Term and Short-Term Debt.   We maintain debt levels we consider appropriate after evaluating a
number of factors, including cash flow expectations, cash requirements for ongoing operations,
investment and financing plans (including acquisitions and share repurchase activities) and the
overall cost of capital. Total debt was $36.7 billion in 2008, $35.4 billion in 2007 and $38.1
billion in 2006. Debt increased in 2008 primarily to fund the Company s treasury share repurchase
program discussed below. The decrease in debt in 2007 was primarily due to the utilization of
operating cash flow to pay down existing balances.

Liquidity .  Our primary source of liquidity is cash generated from operations. We believe internally
generated cash flows adequately support business operations, capital expenditures and shareholder
dividends, as well as a level of other discretionary cash uses (e.g., for minor acquisitions or
share repurchases).

We are able to supplement our liquidity needs, as required, with broad access to financing in
capital markets and four bank credit facilities. Broad access to financing includes commercial
paper programs in multiple markets at favorable rates given our strong credit ratings (including
separate U.S. dollar and Euro multicurrency programs).

We maintain four bank credit facilities: a $6 billion 364-day facility expiring in August 2008, a
$6 billion 5-year facility expiring in August 2012, a $3 billion 5-year facility expiring in August
2012 and a $1.8 billion 364-day facility expiring in June 2009. The facility expiring in August
2008 is no longer needed and is not planned to be replaced. The remaining credit facilities are in
place to support our ongoing commercial paper program and can be extended for certain periods of
time as specified in, and in accordance with, the terms of each credit agreement. We anticipate
that these facilities will remain largely undrawn for the foreseeable future. These credit
facilities do not have cross-default or ratings triggers, nor do they have material adverse events
clauses, except at the time of signing. In addition to these credit facilities, we have an
automatically effective registration statement on Form S-3 filed with the SEC that is available for
registered offerings of short- or long-term debt securities.

The Company s Moody s and Standard   Poor s (S P) short-term credit ratings are P-1 and A-1 ,
respectively. Our Moody s and S P long-term credit ratings are Aa3 with a negative outlook and
AA-with a stable outlook, respectively.

Treasury Purchases.   Total share repurchases in 2008 were $10.0 billion, nearly all of which were
made under our publicly announced share repurchase plan. Under this plan, which began in July 2007,
the Company expects to repurchase $24-30 billion of Company shares at a rate of $8-10 billion per
year. Total share repurchases in 2007 were $5.6 billion.

Guarantees and Other Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.   We do
not have guarantees or other off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including variable interest
entities, which we believe could have a material impact on financial condition or liquidity.

Contractual Commitments.   The following table provides information on our contractual commitments as
of June 30, 2008.

Management s Discussion and Analysis 

The Procter   Gamble Company     51 

(1) 
       
     As of June 30, 2008, the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet reflects a liability for
unrecognized tax benefits of S3.4 billion, including S811 of interest and penalties. Due
to the high degree of
uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash outflows of liabilities for unrecognized tax
benefits beyond one year, a reasonable estimate of the period of cash settlement for the next
twelve
months beyond the balance sheet date of June 30, 2008, can not be made. 

(2) 
       
     Operating lease obligations are shown net of guaranteed sublease income. 

(3) 
       
     Represents future pension payments to comply with local funding requirements. The projected
payments beyond fiscal year 2011 are not currently determinable. 

(4) 
       
     Primarily reflects future contractual payments under various take-or-pay arrangements
entered into as part of the normal course of business. Commitments made under take-or-pay
obligations
represent future purchases in line with expected usage to obtain favorable pricing.
Approximately 36% relates to service contracts for information technology, human resources
management and
facilities management activities that were outsourced in recent years. While the amounts
listed represent contractual obligations, we do not believe it is likely that the full
contractual amount would
be paid if the underlying contracts were canceled prior to maturity. In such cases, we
generally are able to negotiate new contracts or cancellation penalties, resulting in a
reduced payment. The
amounts do not include obligations related to other contractual purchase obligations that are
not take-or-pay arrangements. Such contractual purchase obligations are primarily purchase
orders at
fair value that are part of normal operations and are reflected in historical operating cash
flow trends. We do not believe such purchase obligations will adversely affect our liquidity
position. 

SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 

In preparing our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, there are certain accounting
policies that are particularly important. These include revenue recognition, income taxes, certain
employee benefits, acquisitions, and goodwill and intangible assets. We believe these accounting
policies, and others set forth in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, should be
reviewed as they are integral to understanding the results of operations and financial condition of
the Company. In the case of revenue recognition, these policies simply represent required
accounting and there is minimal judgment or estimation involved. In other areas, they may represent
a choice between acceptable accounting methods or may require substantial judgment or estimation in
their application.

Due to the nature of our business, these estimates generally are not considered highly uncertain at
the time of estimation, meaning they are not expected to result in changes that would materially
affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in any given year.

The Company has discussed the selection of significant accounting policies and the effect of
estimates with the Audit Committee of the Company s Board of Directors.

Revenue Recognition 

Most of our revenue transactions represent sales of inventory, and we recognize revenue when title,
ownership and risk of loss transfer to the customer, which can be on the date of shipment or the
date of receipt by the customer. The revenue recorded is presented net of sales and other taxes we
collect on behalf of governmental authorities and includes shipping and handling costs, which
generally are included in the list price to the customer. A provision for payment discounts and
product return allowances is recorded as a reduction of sales within the same period that the
revenue is recognized. We offer sales incentives to customers and consumers through various
programs, consisting primarily of customer pricing allowances, merchandising funds and consumer
coupons. The cost of these programs is recognized as incurred and recorded as a reduction of sales.
Given the nature of our business, revenue recognition practices do not contain estimates that
materially affect results of operations.

Income Taxes 

Our annual tax rate is determined based on our income, statutory tax rates and the tax impacts of
items treated differently for tax purposes than for financial reporting purposes. Tax law requires
certain items to be included in the tax return at different times than the items are reflected in
the financial statements. Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not
deductible in our tax return, and some differences are temporary, reversing over time, such as
depreciation expense. These temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities.

Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in
future years for which we have already recorded the tax benefit in our income statement. Deferred
tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in our financial statements for which
payment has been deferred, or expenditures for which we have already taken a deduction in our tax
return but have not yet been recognized in our financial statements or assets recorded at fair
value in business combinations for which there was no corresponding tax basis adjustment.

52     The Procter   Gamble Company

Management s Discussion and Analysis  

Inherent in determining our annual tax rate are judgments regarding business plans, planning
opportunities and expectations about future outcomes. Realization of certain deferred tax assets is
dependent upon generating sufficient taxable income in the appropriate jurisdiction prior to the
expiration of the carry-forward periods. Although realization is not assured, management believes
it is more likely than not that our deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, will be
realized.

We operate in multiple jurisdictions with complex regulatory environments subject to different
interpretations by the taxpayer and respective governmental taxing authorities. In certain of these
jurisdictions we may take positions that management believes are supportable, but are potentially
subject to successful challenge by the applicable taxing authority. We evaluate our tax positions
and establish liabilities in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation
No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN 48). We review these tax uncertainties in
light of the changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, and adjust them
accordingly. We have a number of audits in process in various jurisdictions. Although the
resolution of these tax positions is uncertain, based on currently available information, we
believe that the ultimate outcomes will not have a material adverse effect on our financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

Because there are a number of estimates and assumptions inherent in calculating the various
components of our tax provision, certain changes or future events such as changes in tax
legislation, geographic mix of earnings, completion of tax audits or earnings repatriation plans
could have an impact on those estimates and our effective tax rate.

Employee Benefits 

We sponsor various post-employment benefits throughout the world. These include pension plans, both
defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans, and other post-employment benefit (OPEB)
plans, consisting primarily of health care and life insurance for retirees. For accounting
purposes, the defined benefit and OPEB plans require assumptions to estimate the projected and
accumulated benefit obligations, including the following variables: discount rate; expected salary
increases; certain employee-related factors, such as turnover, retirement age and mortality;
expected return on assets and health care cost trend rates. These and other assumptions affect the
annual expense and obligations recognized for the underlying plans. Our assumptions reflect our
historical experiences and management s best judgment regarding future expectations. In accordance
with U.S. GAAP, the net amount by which actual results differ from our assumptions is deferred. If
this net deferred amount exceeds 10% of the greater of plan assets or liabilities, a portion of the
deferred amount is included in expense for the following year. The cost or benefit of plan changes,
such as increasing or decreasing benefits for prior employee service (prior service cost), is
deferred and included in expense on a straight-line basis over the average remaining service period
of the employees expected to receive benefits.

The expected return on plan assets assumption is important, since many of our defined benefit plans
and our primary OPEB plan are funded. The process for setting the expected rates of return is
described in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For 2008, the average return on
assets assumption for pension plan assets and OPEB assets was 7.4% and 9.3%, respectively. A change
in the rate of return of 0.5% for both pension and OPEB assets would impact annual benefit expense
by less than $50 million after tax.

Since pension and OPEB liabilities are measured on a discounted basis, the discount rate is a
significant assumption. Discount rates used for our U.S. defined benefit and OPEB plans are based
on a yield curve constructed from a portfolio of high quality bonds for which the timing and amount
of cash outflows approximate the estimated payouts of the plan. For our international plans, the
discount rates are set by benchmarking against investment grade corporate bonds rated AA or better.
The average discount rate on the defined benefit pension plans of 6.3% represents a weighted
average of local rates in countries where such plans exist. A 0.5% change in the discount rate
would impact annual after-tax benefit expense by less than $50 million. The rate on the OPEB plan
of 6.9% reflects the higher interest rates generally applicable in the U.S., which is where a
majority of the plan participants receive benefits. A 0.5% change in the discount rate would impact
annual after-tax OPEB expense by less than $10 million.

Certain defined contribution pension and OPEB benefits in the U.S. are funded by the Employee
Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP), as discussed in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Acquisitions 

We account for acquired businesses using the purchase method of accounting. Under the purchase
method, our Consolidated Financial Statements reflect the operations of an acquired business
starting from the completion of the acquisition. In addition, the assets acquired and labilities
assumed must be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective estimated fair values, with
any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired recorded
as goodwill.

Significant judgment is required in estimating the fair value of intangible assets and in assigning
their respective useful lives. Accordingly, we typically obtain the assistance of third-party
valuation specialists for significant items. The fair value estimates are based on available
historical information and on future expectations and assumptions deemed reasonable by management,
but are inherently uncertain.

We typically use an income method to estimate the fair value of intangible assets, which is based
on forecasts of the expected future cash flows attributable to the respective assets. Significant
estimates and assumptions inherent in the valuations reflect a consideration of other marketplace
participants, and include the amount and timing of future cash flows (including expected growth
rates and profitability), the underlying product or technology life cycles, economic barriers to
entry, a brand s relative market position and the discount rate applied to the cash flows.
Unanticipated market or macroeconomic events and circumstances may occur, which could affect the
accuracy or validity of the estimates and assumptions.

Management s Discussion and Analysis 

The Procter   Gamble Company     53 

Determining the useful life of an intangible asset also requires judgment. Certain brand
intangibles are expected to have indefinite lives based on their history and our plans to continue
to support and build the acquired brands. Other acquired brands are expected to have determinable
useful lives. Our assessment as to brands that have an indefinite life and those that have a
determinable life is based on a number of factors including competitive environment, market share,
brand history, underlying product life cycles, operating plans and the macroeconomic environment of
the countries in which the brands are sold. Our estimates of the useful lives of determinable-lived
intangibles, primarily including brands, technologies and customer relationships, are primarily
based on these same factors. All of our acquired technology and customer-related intangibles are
expected to have determinable useful lives.

Other significant estimates associated with the accounting for acquisitions include exit costs.
Provided certain criteria are met, exit costs related to acquired operations are treated as assumed
liabilities. If those criteria are not met, the costs are treated as operating expenses of the
combined company as incurred. Exit costs, consisting primarily of severance costs, facility closure
and other exit costs related to redundant manufacturing, selling, general and administrative
functions, are based upon plans that have been committed to by management but which are subject to
refinement. Significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the calculation of exit costs relate
to the number of employees that will be terminated, future costs to operate and eventually vacate
duplicate facilities and costs to terminate agreements. These estimates and assumptions may change
as we execute approved plans. Decreases to the estimated costs are generally recorded as an
adjustment to goodwill. Increases to the estimates are generally recorded as an adjustment to
goodwill during the purchase price allocation period (generally within one year of the acquisition
date) and as operating expenses thereafter.

Goodwill and Intangible Assets 

Acquired intangible assets may represent indefinite-lived assets (e.g., certain trademarks or
brands), determinable-lived intangibles (e.g., certain trademarks or brands, customer
relationships, patents and technologies) or residual goodwill. Of these, only the costs of
determinable-lived intangibles are amortized to expense over their estimated life. The value of
indefinite-lived intangible assets and residual goodwill is not amortized, but is tested at least
annually for impairment. Our impairment testing for goodwill is performed separately from our
impairment testing of indefinite-lived intangibles. We test goodwill for impairment, at least
annually, by reviewing the book value compared to the fair value at the reportable unit level. We
test individual indefinite-lived intangibles at least annually by reviewing the individual book
values compared to the fair value. Considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the
impact of operating and macroeconomic changes and to estimate future cash flows to measure fair
value. Assumptions used in the Company s impairment evaluations, such as forecasted growth rates
and cost of capital, are consistent with internal projections and operating plans. We believe such
assumptions and estimates are also comparable to those that would be used by other marketplace
participants. When certain events or changes in operating conditions occur, indefinite-lived
intangible
assets may be reclassified to a determinable life asset and an additional impairment assessment may
be performed. We did not recognize any material impairment charges for goodwill or intangible
assets during the years presented.

The recorded value of goodwill and intangible assets from recently acquired businesses are derived
from more recent business operating plans and macroeconomic environmental conditions and therefore
are more susceptible to an adverse change that could require an impairment charge. Indefinite-lived
intangible assets totaled $27.9 billion at June 30, 2008, of which $24.7 billion represent recently
acquired Gillette intangible assets. The Gillette indefinite-lived intangible assets were recorded
at estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. Total goodwill is $59.8 billion at June 30,
2008, of which $38.0 billion results from the Gillette acquisition. Such goodwill reflects the
residual amount from a purchase price allocation as of the acquisition date. Because the Gillette
intangible and goodwill amounts represent current values as of the relatively recent acquisition
date, such amounts are more susceptible to an impairment risk if business operating results or
macroeconomic conditions deteriorate.

New Accounting Pronouncements 

As more fully discussed in Notes 1 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, on July 1,
2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an
interpretation of FASB Statement No.109  (FIN 48). FIN 48 addresses the accounting and disclosure
of uncertain tax positions. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for
the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken
in a tax return. The difference between the tax benefit recognized in the financial statements for
a position in accordance with FIN 48 and the tax benefit claimed in the tax return is referred to
as an unrecognized tax benefit.

As more fully discussed in Notes 1 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we adopted SFAS
No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an
amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R),  (SFAS 158) at June 30, 2007. SFAS 158
requires companies to recognize the over-funded and under-funded status of defined benefit pension
and other postretirement plans as assets or liabilities on their balance sheets and to recognize
previously unrecognized changes in that funded status, in the year in which changes occur, through
other comprehensive income in shareholders  equity.

In September 2006 the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (SFAS 157). This standard
defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted
accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The standard, as
amended, is effective for the Company beginning July 1, 2008, for certain financial assets and
liabilities and beginning July 1, 2009, for non-financial assets and liabilities recognized or
disclosed at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. We believe that the adoption of SFAS 157 will not
have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

54     The Procter   Gamble Company

Management s Discussion and Analysis  

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (Revised),  Business Combinations  (SFAS
141(R)) and SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an
amendment of ARB No. 51"(SFAS 160). SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160 revise the method of accounting for a
number of aspects of business combinations and noncontrolling interests, including acquisition
costs, contingencies (including contingent assets, contingent liabilities and contingent purchase
price), the impacts of partial and step-acquisitions (including the valuation of net assets
attributable to non-acquired minority interests), and post acquisition exit activities of acquired
businesses. SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160 will be effective for the Company during our fiscal year
beginning July 1, 2009.

In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,  Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133  (SFAS 161). SFAS 161 impacts disclosures only
and will provide additional qualitative and quantitative information on the use of derivatives and
their impact on an entity s financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. SFAS 161
will be effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2009.

No other new accounting pronouncement issued or effective during the fiscal year has had or is
expected to have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.

OTHER INFORMATION 

Hedging and Derivative Financial Instruments 

As a multinational company with diverse product offerings, we are exposed to market risks such as
changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices. To manage the volatility
related to these exposures, we evaluate our exposures on a global basis to take advantage of the
direct netting opportunities and of currency, interest rate and commodity correlations that exist
within the portfolio. For the remaining exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions in
accordance with the Company s hedging policies that are designed to partially, or entirely, offset
changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. We do not hold or issue derivative financial
instruments for speculative trading purposes. Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
includes a detailed discussion of our accounting policies for financial instruments.

Derivative positions are monitored using techniques including market valuation, sensitivity
analysis and value-at-risk modeling. The tests for interest rate, currency rate and commodity price
exposures discussed below are based on the CorporateManager  value-at-risk model using a one-year
horizon and a 95% confidence level. The model incorporates the impact of correlation (the degree to
which exposures move together over time) and diversification (from holding multiple currency,
commodity and interest rate instruments) and assumes that financial returns are normally
distributed. Estimates of volatility and correlations of market factors are drawn from the
RiskMetrics  dataset as of June 30, 2008. In cases where data is unavailable in RiskMetrics , a
reasonable proxy is included.

Our market risk exposures relative to interest rates, currency rates and commodity prices, as
discussed below, have not changed materially versus the previous reporting period. In addition, we
are not aware of any facts or circumstances that would significantly impact such exposures in the
near term.

Interest Rate Exposure on Financial Instruments.   Interest rate swaps are used to hedge exposures to
interest rate movement on underlying debt obligations. Certain interest rate swaps denominated in
foreign currencies are designated to hedge exposures to currency exchange rate movements on our
investments in foreign operations. These currency interest rate swaps are designated as hedges of
the Company s foreign net investments.

Based on our overall interest rate exposure as of and during the year ended June 30, 2008,
including derivative and other instruments sensitive to interest rates, we believe a near-term
change in interest rates, at a 95% confidence level based on historical interest rate movements,
would not materially affect our financial statements.

Currency Rate Exposure on Financial Instruments.   Because we manufacture and sell products in a
number of countries throughout the world, we are exposed to the impact on revenue and expenses of
movements in currency exchange rates. The primary purpose of our currency hedging activities is to
reduce the risk that our financial position will be adversely affected by short-term changes in
exchange rates. Corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. We primarily
use forward contracts and options with maturities of less than 18 months.

In addition, we enter into certain currency swaps with maturities of up to five years to hedge our
exposure to exchange rate movements on intercompany financing transactions. We also use purchased
currency options with maturities of generally less than 18 months and forward contracts to hedge
against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on intercompany royalties and to offset a portion
of the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on income from international operations.

Based on our overall currency rate exposure as of and during the year ended June 30, 2008, we
believe, at a 95% confidence level based on historical currency rate movements, the impact of a
near-term change in currency rates on derivative and other instruments would not materially affect
our financial statements.

Commodity Price Exposure on Financial Instruments.   We use raw
materials that are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, political and
economic variables and other unpredictable factors. In addition to fixed price contracts, we use
futures, options and swap contracts to manage the volatility related to the above exposures.

Based on our overall commodity price exposure as of and during the year ended June 30, 2008, we
believe, at a 95% confidence level based on historical commodity price movements, the impact of a
near-term change in commodity prices on derivative and other instruments would not materially
affect our financial statements.

Management s Discussion and Analysis 

The Procter   Gamble Company      55 

Measures Not Defined By U.S. GAAP 

Our discussion of financial results includes
several  non-GAAP  financial measures. We
believe these measures provide our investors
with additional information about our
underlying results and trends, as well as
insight to some of the metrics used to
evaluate management. When used in MD A, we
have provided the comparable GAAP measure in
the discussion. These measures include:

Organic Sales Growth.   Organic sales growth
measures sales growth excluding the impacts
of foreign exchange, acquisitions and
divestitures from year-over-year
comparisons. The Company believes this
provides investors with a more complete
understanding of underlying results and
trends by providing sales growth on a
consistent basis.

The following table provides a numerical
reconciliation of organic sales growth to
reported net sales growth for fiscal 2008:

The following table provides a
numerical reconciliation of organic sales
growth to reported net sales growth for
fiscal 2007:

Free Cash Flow .  Free cash flow is
defined as operating cash flow less capital
spending. The Company views free cash flow
as an important measure because it is one
factor in determining the amount of cash
available for dividends and discretionary
investment. Free cash flow is also one of
the measures used to evaluate senior
management and is a factor in determining
their at-risk compensation.

Free Cash Flow Productivity .  Free cash flow
productivity is defined as the ratio of free
cash flow to net earnings. The Company s
target is to generate free cash flow at or
above 90% of net earnings. Free cash flow
productivity is one of the measures used to
evaluate senior management and is a factor
in determining their at-risk compensation.

The following table provides a numerical reconciliation of free cash flow:

56      The Procter   Gamble Company

Consolidated Statements of Earnings 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Procter   Gamble Company     57

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

58     The Procter   Gamble Company

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Procter   Gamble Company     59

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

60       The Procter   Gamble Company

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

NOTE 1  

SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Nature of Operations 

The Procter   Gamble Company s (the  Company,   we  or  us ) business is focused on providing
branded consumer goods products of superior quality and value. Our products are sold in more than
180 countries primarily through retail operations including mass merchandisers, grocery stores,
membership club stores, drug stores, department stores, salons and high-frequency stores. We have
on-the-ground operations in approximately 80 countries.

Basis of Presentation 

The Consolidated Financial Statements include The Procter   Gamble Company and its controlled
subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions are eliminated.

Use of Estimates 

Preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying disclosures.
These estimates are based on management s best knowledge of current events and actions the Company
may undertake in the future. Estimates are used in accounting for, among other items, consumer and
trade promotion accruals, pensions, post-employment benefits, stock options, valuation of acquired
intangible assets, useful lives for depreciation and amortization, future cash flows associated
with impairment testing for goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and long-lived assets,
deferred tax assets, uncertain income tax positions and contingencies. Actual results may
ultimately differ from estimates, although management does not believe such differences would
materially affect the financial statements in any individual year.

Revenue Recognition 

Sales are recognized when revenue is realized or realizable and has been earned. Most revenue
transactions represent sales of inventory. The revenue recorded is presented net of sales and other
taxes we collect on behalf of governmental authorities and includes shipping and handling costs,
which generally are included in the list price to the customer. Our policy is to recognize revenue
when title to the product, ownership and risk of loss transfer to the customer, which can be on the
date of shipment or the date of receipt by the customer. A provision for payment discounts and
product return allowances is recorded as a reduction of sales in the same period that the revenue
is recognized.

Trade promotions, consisting primarily of customer pricing allowances, merchandising funds and
consumer coupons, are offered through various programs to customers and consumers. Sales are
recorded net of trade promotion spending, which is recognized as incurred, generally at the time of
the sale. Most of these arrangements have terms of approximately one year. Accruals for expected
payouts under these programs are included as accrued marketing and promotion in the accrued and
other liabilities line item in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Cost of Products Sold 

Cost of products sold is primarily comprised of direct materials and supplies consumed in the
manufacture of product, as well as manufacturing labor, depreciation expense and direct overhead
expense necessary to acquire and convert the purchased materials and supplies into finished
product. Cost of products sold also includes the cost to distribute products to customers, inbound
freight costs, internal transfer costs, warehousing costs and other shipping and handling activity.

Selling, General and Administrative Expense 

Selling, general and administrative (SG A) expense is primarily comprised of marketing expenses,
selling expenses, research and development costs, administrative and other indirect overhead costs,
depreciation and amortization expense on non-manufacturing assets and other miscellaneous operating
items. Research and development costs are charged to expense as incurred and were $2,226 in 2008,
$2,112 in 2007 and $2,075 in 2006. Advertising costs, charged to expense as incurred, include
worldwide television, print, radio, internet and in-store advertising expenses and were $8,667 in
2008, $7,937 in 2007 and $7,122 in 2006. Non-advertising related components of the Company s total
marketing spending include costs associated with consumer promotions, product sampling and sales
aids, all of which are included in SG A expense, as well as coupons and customer trade funds, which
are recorded as reductions to net sales.

Other Non-Operating Income, Net 

Other non-operating income, net, primarily includes divestiture gains and interest and investment
income.

Currency Translation 

Financial statements of operating subsidiaries outside the United States of America (U.S.)
generally are measured using the local currency as the functional currency. Adjustments to
translate those statements into U.S. dollars are recorded in other comprehensive income. Currency
translation adjustments in accumulated other comprehensive income were gains of $9,484 and $2,941
at June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. For subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary
economies, the U.S. dollar is the functional currency. Remeasurement adjustments for financial
statements in highly inflationary economies and other transactional exchange gains and losses are
reflected in earnings.

Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

The Procter   Gamble Company       61 

Cash Flow Presentation 

The Statement of Cash Flows is prepared using the indirect method, which reconciles net earnings to
cash flow from operating activities. The reconciliation adjustments include the removal of timing
differences between the occurrence of operating receipts and payments and their recognition in net
earnings. The adjustments also remove cash flows from operating activities arising from investing
and financing activities, which are presented separately from operating activities. Cash flows from
foreign currency transactions and operations are translated at an average exchange rate for the
period. Cash flows from hedging activities are included in the same category as the items being
hedged. Cash flows from derivative instruments designated as net investment hedges are classified
as financing activities. Cash flows from other derivative instruments used to manage interest,
commodity or currency exposures are classified as operating activities. Cash payments related to
income taxes are classified as operating activities.

Cash Equivalents 

Highly liquid investments with remaining stated maturities of three months or less when purchased
are considered cash equivalents and recorded at cost.

Investments 

Investment securities consist of readily marketable debt and equity securities. Unrealized gains or
losses are charged to earnings for investments classified as trading and to shareholders  equity
for investments classified as available-for-sale. Auction rate securities are classified as other
noncurrent assets with unrealized losses charged to shareholders  equity unless an impairment is
judged to be other than temporary, in which case it is charged to earnings.

Investments in certain companies over which we exert significant influence, but do not control the
financial and operating decisions, are accounted for as equity method investments. Other
investments that are not controlled, and over which we do not have the ability to exercise
significant influence, are accounted for under the cost method.

Inventory Valuation 

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market value. Product-related inventories are
primarily maintained on the first-in, first-out method. Minor amounts of product inventories,
including certain cosmetics and commodities, are maintained on the last-in, first-out method. The
cost of spare part inventories is maintained using the average cost method.

Property, Plant and Equipment 

Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost reduced by accumulated depreciation. Depreciation
expense is recognized over the assets  estimated useful lives using the straight-line method.
Machinery and equipment includes office furniture and fixtures (15-year life), computer equipment
and capitalized software (3- to 5-year lives) and manufacturing equipment (3- to 20-year lives).
Buildings are depreciated over an estimated useful life of 40 years. Estimated useful lives
are periodically reviewed and, when appropriate, changes are made prospectively. When certain
events or changes in operating conditions occur, asset lives may be adjusted and an impairment
assessment may be performed on the recoverability of the carrying amounts.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 

We have a number of acquired brands that have been determined to have indefinite lives due to the
nature of our business. We evaluate a number of factors to determine whether an indefinite life is
appropriate, including the competitive environment, market share, brand history, product life
cycles, operating plans and the macroeconomic environment of the countries in which the brands are
sold. When certain events or changes in operating conditions occur, an impairment assessment is
performed and indefinite-lived brands may be adjusted to a determinable life.

Goodwill and indefinite-lived brands are not amortized, but are evaluated annually for impairment
or when indicators of a potential impairment are present. Our impairment testing of goodwill is
performed separately from our impairment testing of individual indefinite-lived intangibles. The
annual evaluation for impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles is based on valuation
models that incorporate assumptions and internal projections of expected future cash flows and
operating plans. We believe such assumptions are also comparable to those that would be used by
other marketplace participants.

The cost of intangible assets with determinable useful lives is amortized to reflect the pattern of
economic benefits consumed, either on a straight-line or accelerated basis over the estimated
periods benefited. Patents, technology and other intangibles with contractual terms are generally
amortized over their respective legal or contractual lives. Customer relationships and other
noncontractual intangible assets with determinable lives are amortized over periods generally
ranging from 5 to 40 years. When certain events or changes in operating conditions occur, an
impairment assessment is performed and lives of intangible assets with determinable lives may be
adjusted.

Fair Values of Financial Instruments 

Certain financial instruments are required to be recorded at fair value. The estimated fair values
of such financial instruments (including certain debt instruments, investment securities and
derivatives) have been determined using market information and valuation methodologies, primarily
discounted cash flow analysis. Changes in assumptions or estimation methods could affect the fair
value estimates. However, we do not believe any such changes would have a material impact on our
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Other financial instruments, including
cash equivalents, other investments and short-term debt, are recorded at cost, which approximates
fair value. The fair values of long-term debt and derivative instruments are disclosed in Note 5
and Note 6, respectively.

Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified.

62 The Procter   Gamble Company

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

New Accounting Pronouncements and Policies 

Other than as described below, no new accounting pronouncement issued or effective during the
fiscal year has had or is expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial
statements.

ADOPTION OF FIN 48,  ACCOUNTING FOR UNCERTAINTY IN INCOME TAXES   AN INTERPRETATION OF FASB
STATEMENT NO. 109  

On July 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes an interpretation of FASB statement No. 109  (FIN 48). FIN 48 addresses the accounting and
disclosure of uncertain tax positions. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement
attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or
expected to be taken in a tax return. The difference between the tax benefit recognized in the
financial statements for a position in accordance with FIN 48 and the tax benefit claimed in the
tax return is referred to as an unrecognized tax benefit.

The adoption of FIN 48 resulted in a decrease to retained earnings as of July 1, 2007, of $232,
which was reflected as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, with a
corresponding increase to the net liability for unrecognized tax benefits. The impact primarily
reflects the accrual of additional statutory interest and penalties as required by FIN 48,
partially offset by adjustments to existing unrecognized tax benefits to comply with FIN 48
measurement principles. The implementation of FIN 48 also resulted in a reduction in our net tax
liabilities for uncertain tax positions related to prior acquisitions accounted for under purchase
accounting, resulting in an $80 decrease to goodwill. Additionally, the Company historically
classified unrecognized tax benefits in current taxes payable. As a result of the adoption of FIN
48, unrecognized tax benefits not expected to be paid in the next 12 months were reclassified to
other noncurrent liabilities on a prospective basis.

The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of the adoption of FIN 48 at July 1, 2007, was
$2,971, excluding any related accruals for interest and penalties. Included in this total was
$1,893 that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate in future periods. We recognize
accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. Accrued
interest and penalties as of July 1, 2007, were $589 and $128, respectively, on an after-tax basis.
Refer to Note 10 for additional information regarding uncertain tax positions and related activity
in the current year.

ADOPTION OF FASB STANDARD 158,  EMPLOYERS  ACCOUNTING FOR DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION AND OTHER
POSTRETIREMENT PLANS AN AMENDMENT OF FASB STATEMENTS NO. 87, 88, 106, AND 132(R)  

In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 158,
 Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of
FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)  (SFAS 158). SFAS 158 requires companies to recognize
the over-funded and under-funded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans
as assets or liabilities on their balance sheets. In addition, changes in the funded status must be
recognized through other comprehensive
income in shareholders  equity in the year in which the changes occur. We adopted SFAS 158 on June
30, 2007. In accordance with the transition rules in SFAS 158, this standard was adopted on a
prospective basis. The adoption of SFAS 158 resulted in an adjustment to our balance sheet, but had
no impact on our net earnings or cash flow, nor did it impact any debt covenants. SFAS 158 had no
impact on our measurement date, which continues to be as of our fiscal year-end. Refer to Note 9
for additional information regarding our pension and postretirement plans.

The following table reflects the effect of the adoption of SFAS 158 on our Consolidated Balance
Sheets:

FASB STANDARDS 141(R),  BUSINESS COMBINATIONS,  AND 160,  NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS IN CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  AN AMENDMENT OF ARB NO. 51  

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (Revised),  Business Combinations,  (SFAS 141(R))
and SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of
ARB No. 51  (SFAS 160). SFAS 141 (R) and SFAS 160 revise the method of accounting for a number of
aspects of business combinations and noncontrolling interests, including acquisition costs,
contingencies (including contingent assets, contingent liabilities and contingent purchase price),
the impacts of partial and step-acquisitions (including the valuation of net assets attributable to
non-acquired minority interests) and post acquisition exit activities of acquired businesses. SFAS
141 (R) and SFAS 160 will be effective for the Company during our fiscal year beginning July 1,
2009. The Company believes that the adoption of SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160 will not have a material
effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

FASB STANDARD 157,  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS  

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (SFAS 157). This
standard defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted
accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157, as amended,
is effective for the Company beginning July 1, 2008, for certain financial assets and liabilities and beginning July 1,
2009, for non-financial assets and liabilities recognized or disclosed at fair value on a non-recurring basis. The Company believes that theadoption of SFAS 157 will not have a material effect on its financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

The Procter   Gamble Company       63 

FASB STANDARD 161,  DISCLOSURES ABOUT DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES   AN
AMENDMENT OF FASB STATEMENT NO. 133  

In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,  Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities An Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133  (SFAS 161). SFAS 161 impacts disclosures only
and will provide additional qualitative and quantitative information on the use of derivatives and
their impact on an entity s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. SFAS 161 will
be effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2009.

NOTE 2  

ACQUISITIONS 

Gillette Acquisition 

On October 1, 2005, we completed our acquisition of The Gillette Company. Pursuant to the
acquisition agreement, which provided for the exchange of 0.975 shares of The Procter   Gamble
Company common stock, on a tax-free basis, for each share of The Gillette Company, we issued 962
million shares of The Procter   Gamble Company common stock. The value of these shares was
determined using the average Company stock prices beginning two days before and ending two days
after January 28, 2005, the date the acquisition was announced. We also issued 79 million stock
options in exchange for Gillette s outstanding stock options. Under the purchase method of
accounting, the total consideration was approximately $53.4 billion including common stock, the
fair value of vested stock options and acquisition costs. This acquisition ultimately resulted in a
new Grooming reportable segment. The Gillette oral care, batteries and personal care businesses
were subsumed within the Health Care, Fabric Care and Home Care, and Beauty reportable segments,
respectively. The operating results of the Gillette businesses are reported in our financial
statements beginning October 1, 2005.

The Gillette Company was a market leader in several global product categories including blades and
razors, oral care and batteries. Total sales for Gillette during its most recent pre-acquisition
year ended December 31, 2004, were $10.5 billion.

In order to obtain regulatory approval of the transaction, we were required to divest certain
overlapping businesses. We completed the divestiture of the Spinbrush toothbrush business,
Rembrandt (a Gillette oral care product line), Right Guard and other Gillette deodorant brands
during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006.

In connection with this acquisition, we also announced a share buyback plan, which we completed
in July 2006, under which we acquired $20.1 billion of Company common shares either through the
open market or from private transactions.

In conjunction with the acquisition of The Gillette Company, we recognized an assumed liability for
Gillette exit costs of $1.2 billion, including $854 in separation costs related to approximately
5,500 people, $55 in employee relocation costs and $320 in other exit
costs. These costs are primarily related to the elimination of selling, general and administrative
overlap between the two companies in areas like Global Business Services, corporate staff and
go-to-market support, as well as redundant manufacturing capacity. These activities are
substantially complete as of June 30, 2008. Total integration plan charges against the assumed
liability were $286, $438 and $204 for the years ended June 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. A
total of $121 of the liability was reversed, which resulted in a reduction to goodwill during the
year ended June 30, 2008, related to underspending on a number of projects that were concluded
during the period.

Other minor business purchases and intangible asset acquisitions totaled $418, $540 and $395 in
2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified.

64      The Procter   Gamble Company

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

NOTE 3  

GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS 

The change in the net carrying amount of goodwill by Global Business Unit (GBU) was as
follows:

The increase in goodwill from June 30, 2007, is primarily due to currency translation.

Identifiable intangible assets were comprised of:

The amortization of intangible assets for the years ended June 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $649,
$640 and $587, respectively. Estimated amortization expense over the next five years is as follows:
2009 $626;2010 $599; 2011 $549; 2012 $512; and 2013 $489. Such estimates do not reflect the impact
of future foreign exchange rate changes.

NOTE 4  

SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

Selected components of current and noncurrent liabilities were as follows:

Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

The Procter   Gamble Company       65 

NOTE 5  

SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM DEBT 

The weighted average short-term interest rates were 2.7% and 5.0% as of June 30, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, including the effects of interest rate swaps discussed in Note 6.

(1) 
       
     Debt issued by the ESOP is guaranteed by the Company and must be recorded as debt of the
Company as discussed in Note 9. 

Long-term weighted average interest rates were 4.5% and 3.3% as of June 30, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, including the effects of interest rate swaps and net investment hedges discussed in
Note 6.

The fair value of the long-term debt was $23,276 and $23,122 at June 30, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. Long-term debt maturities during the next five years are as follows: 2009 $1,746;
2010 $5,508; 2011 $43; 2012 $1,643; and 2013 $2,240.

NOTE 6  

RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES 

As a multinational company with diverse product offerings, we are exposed to market risks, such as
changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices. To manage the volatility
related to these exposures, we evaluate exposures on a consolidated basis to take advantage of
logical exposure netting and correlation. For the remaining exposures, we enter into various
financial transactions, which we account for under SFAS 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities,  as amended and interpreted. The utilization of these financial
transactions is governed by our policies covering acceptable counterparty exposure, instrument
types and other hedging practices. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for
speculative trading purposes.

At inception, we formally designate and document qualifying instruments as hedges of underlying
exposures. We formally assess, both at inception and at least quarterly on an ongoing basis,
whether the financial instruments used in hedging transactions are effective at offsetting changes
in either the fair value or cash flows of the related underlying exposure. Fluctuations in the
value of these instruments generally are offset by changes in the fair value or cash flows of the
underlying exposures being hedged. This offset is driven by the high degree of effectiveness
between the exposure being hedged and the hedging instrument. Any ineffective portion of a change
in the fair value of a qualifying instrument is immediately recognized in earnings.

Credit Risk 

We have counterparty credit guidelines and normally enter into transactions with investment grade
financial institutions. Counterparty exposures are monitored daily and downgrades in credit rating
are reviewed on a timely basis. Credit risk arising from the inability of a counterparty to meet
the terms of our financial instrument contracts generally is limited to the amounts, if any, by
which the counterparty s obligations exceed our obligations to the counterparty. We have not
incurred and do not expect to incur material credit losses on our risk management or other
financial instruments.

Interest Rate Management 

Our policy is to manage interest cost using a mixture of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt. To
manage this risk in a cost-efficient manner, we enter into interest rate swaps in which we agree to
exchange with the counterparty, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and variable
interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount.

Interest rate swaps that meet specific criteria under SFAS 133 are accounted for as fair value and
cash flow hedges. There were no fair value hedging instruments at June 30, 2008, or June 30, 2007.
For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the changes in fair value of the hedging instrument
is reported in other comprehensive income (OCI) and reclassified into interest expense over the
life of the underlying debt. The ineffective portion, which is not material for any year

Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified.

66      The Procter   Gamble Company

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

presented, is immediately recognized in earnings. The fair value of these cash flow hedging
instruments was a liability of $17 and an asset of $53 at June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
During the next 12 months, $4 of the June 30, 2008 OCI balance will be reclassified to earnings
consistent with the timing of the underlying hedged transactions.

Foreign Currency Management 

We manufacture and sell our products in a number of countries throughout the world and, as a
result, are exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. The purpose of our foreign
currency hedging program is to reduce the risk caused by short-term changes in exchange rates.

To manage this exchange rate risk, we primarily utilize forward contracts and options with
maturities of less than 18 months and currency swaps with maturities up to five years. These
instruments are intended to offset the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on forecasted sales,
inventory purchases, intercompany royalties and intercompany loans denominated in foreign
currencies and are therefore accounted for as cash flow hedges. The fair value of these instruments
at June 30, 2008 and 2007, was $4 and $34 in assets and $37 and $2 in liabilities, respectively.
The effective portion of the changes in fair value of these instruments is reported in OCI and
reclassified into earnings in the same financial statement line item and in the same period or
periods during which the related hedged transactions affect earnings. The ineffective portion,
which is not material for any year presented, is immediately recognized in earnings.

Certain instruments used to manage foreign exchange exposure of intercompany financing
transactions, income from international operations and other balance sheet items subject to
revaluation do not meet the requirements for hedge accounting treatment. In these cases, the change
in value of the instruments is designed to offset the foreign currency impact of the related
exposure. The fair value of these instruments at June 30, 2008 and 2007, was $190 and $110 in
assets and $33 and $78 in liabilities, respectively. The change in value of these instruments is
immediately recognized in earnings. The net impact of such instruments, included in selling,
general and administrative expense, was $1,397, $56 and $87 of gains in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively, which substantially offset foreign currency transaction and translation losses of the
exposures being hedged.

Net Investment Hedging 

We hedge certain net investment positions in major foreign subsidiaries. To accomplish this, we
either borrow directly in foreign currency and designate all or a portion of foreign currency debt
as a hedge of the applicable net investment position or enter into foreign currency swaps that are
designated as hedges of our related foreign net investments. Under SFAS 133, changes in the fair
value of these instruments are immediately recognized in OCI to offset the change in the value of
the net investment being hedged. Currency effects of these hedges reflected in OCI were after-tax
losses of $2,951 and $835 in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Accumulated net balances were $5,023 and
$2,072 after-tax losses as of June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Commodity Price Management 

Certain raw materials utilized in our products or production processes are subject to price
volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, political and economic variables and other
unpredictable factors. To manage the volatility related to anticipated purchases of certain of
these materials, we use futures and options with maturities generally less than one year and swap
contracts with maturities up to five years. These market instruments generally are designated as
cash flow hedges under SFAS 133. The effective portion of the changes in fair value for these
instruments is reported in OCI and reclassified into earnings in the same financial statement line
item and in the same period or periods during which the hedged transactions affect earnings. The
ineffective and non-qualifying portions, which are not material for any year presented, are
immediately recognized in earnings. The fair value of these cash flow hedging instruments was an
asset of $229 and $70 at June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. During the next 12 months, $126 of
the June 30, 2008 OCI balance will be reclassified to earnings consistent with the timing of the
underlying hedged transactions.

Insurance 

The Company purchases limited discretionary insurance to cover catastrophic property damage,
business interruption and liability risk of loss exposures. Deductibles and loss sharing will
likely increase over time, recognizing the Company s ability to cost-effectively fund losses from
internal cash flow generation and access to capital markets.

NOTE 7  

EARNINGS PER SHARE 

Net earnings less preferred dividends (net of related tax benefits) are divided by the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding during the year to calculate basic net earnings per
common share. Diluted net earnings per common share are calculated to give effect to stock options
and other stock-based awards (see Note 8) and assume conversion of preferred stock (see Note 9).

Net earnings and common shares used to calculate basic and diluted net earnings per share were as
follows:

Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

The Procter   Gamble Company       67 

(1) 
       
     Despite being included currently in diluted net earnings per common share, the actual
conversion to common stock occurs pursuant to the repayment of the ESOPs  obligations through 2035. 

(2) 
       
     Approximately 40 million in 2008, 41 million in 2007 and 44 million in 2006 of the Company s
outstanding stock options were not included in the diluted net earnings per share calculation
because to do so would have been antidilutive (i.e., the total proceeds upon exercise would
have exceeded the market value of the underlying common shares). 

NOTE 8  

STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION 

We have stock-based compensation plans under which we annually grant stock option and restricted
stock awards to key managers and directors. Exercise prices on options granted have been and
continue to be set equal to the market price of the underlying shares on the date of the grant. The
key manager stock option awards granted since September 2002 are vested after three years and have
a 10-year life. The key manager stock option awards granted from July 1998 through August 2002
vested after three years and have a 15-year life. Beginning in 2008, key managers were given the
alternative to elect up to 50% of the value of their option award in restricted stock units (RSUs).
Key manager RSUs are vested and settled in shares of common stock five years from the grant date.
The awards provided to the Company s directors are in the form of restricted stock and RSUs. In
addition to our key manager and director grants, we make other minor stock options and RSU grants
to employees for which the terms are not substantially different.

A total of 229 million shares of common stock were authorized for issuance under stock-based
compensation plans approved by shareholders in 2001 and 2003, of which 50 million remain available
for grant. An additional 20 million shares of common stock available for issuance under a plan
approved by Gillette shareholders in 2004 were assumed by the Company in conjunction with the
acquisition of The Gillette Company in October 2005. A total of 12 million of these shares remain
available for grant under this plan. There were also 5 million shares available for grant under the
Future Shares Plan approved by the Board of Directors in 1997. This plan was terminated in October
2007.

Total stock-based compensation expense for stock option grants was $522, $612 and $526 for 2008,
2007 and 2006, respectively. The total income tax benefit recognized in the income statement for
these stock-based compensation arrangements was $141, $163 and $140 for 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. Total compensation cost for restricted stock, restricted stock units and other
stock-based grants, was $33, $56 and $59 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

In calculating the compensation expense for options granted, we utilize a binomial lattice-based
model for the valuation of stock option grants. Assumptions utilized in the model, which are
evaluated and revised, as necessary, to reflect market conditions and experience, were as follows:

Because lattice-based option valuation models incorporate ranges of assumptions for inputs, those
ranges are disclosed in the preceding table. Expected volatilities are based on a combination of
historical volatility of our stock and implied volatilities of call options on our stock. We use
historical data to estimate option exercise and employee termination patterns within the valuation
model. The expected term of options granted is derived from the output of the option valuation
model and represents the average period of time that options granted are expected to be
outstanding. The interest rate for periods within the contractual life of the options is based on
the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.

A summary of options outstanding under the plans as of June 30, 2008, and activity during the year
then ended is presented below:

The weighted average grant-date fair value of options granted was $15.91, $17.29 and $16.30 per
share in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised was
$1,129, $894 and $815 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The total grant-date fair value of
options that vested during 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $532, $552 and $388, respectively. We have no
specific policy to repurchase common shares to mitigate the dilutive impact of options; however, we
have historically made adequate discretionary purchases, based on cash availability, market trends
and other factors, to satisfy stock option exercise activity.

Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified.

68       The Procter   Gamble Company

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

At June 30, 2008, there was $565 of compensation cost that has not yet been recognized
related to stock awards. That cost is expected to be recognized over a remaining weighted average
period of 1.9 years.

Cash received from options exercised was $1,837, $1,422 and $1,229 in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from option exercises totaled
$318, $265 and $242 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

NOTE 9  

POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS AND EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN 

We offer various postretirement benefits to our employees.

Defined Contribution Retirement Plans 

We have defined contribution plans which cover the majority of our U.S. employees, as well as
employees in certain other countries. These plans are fully funded. We generally make contributions
to participants  accounts based on individual base salaries and years of service. The primary U.S.
defined contribution plan (the U.S. DC plan) comprises the majority of the balances and expense for
the Company s defined contribution plans. For the U.S. DC plan, the contribution rate is set
annually. Total contributions for this plan approximated 15% of total participants  annual wages
and salaries in 2008, 2007 and 2006.

We maintain The Procter   Gamble Profit Sharing Trust (Trust) and Employee Stock Ownership Plan
(ESOP) to provide a portion of the funding for the U.S. DC plan, as well as other retiree benefits.
Operating details of the ESOP are provided at the end of this Note. The fair value of the ESOP
Series A shares allocated to participants reduces our cash contribution required to fund the U.S.
DC plan. Total defined contribution expense was $290, $273, and $249 in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.

Defined Benefit Retirement Plans and Other Retiree Benefits 

We offer defined benefit retirement pension plans to certain employees. These benefits relate
primarily to local plans outside the U.S., and to a lesser extent, plans assumed in the Gillette
acquisition covering U.S. employees. These acquired Gillette plans were frozen effective January 1,
2008.

We also provide certain other retiree benefits, primarily health care and life insurance, for the
majority of our U.S. employees who become eligible for these benefits when they meet minimum age
and service requirements. Generally, the health care plans require cost sharing with retirees and
pay a stated percentage of expenses, reduced by deductibles and other coverages. These benefits are
primarily funded by ESOP Series B shares, as well as certain other assets contributed by the
Company.

Obligation and Funded Status.   We use a June 30 measurement date for our defined benefit retirement
plans and other retiree benefit plans. The following provides a reconciliation of benefit
obligations, plan assets and funded status of these plans:

(1) 
       
     Primarily non-U.S.-based defined benefit retirement plans. 

(2) 
       
     Primarily U.S.-based other postretirement benefit plans. 

(3) 
       
     For the pension benefit plans, the benefit obligation is the projected benefit obligation.
For other retiree benefit plans, the benefit obligation is the accumulated postretirement 
benefit obligation. 

(4) 
       
     Represents increases in the ESOP s debt, which is netted against plan assets for Other
Retiree Benefits. 

Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

The Procter   Gamble Company       69 

The underfunding of pension benefits is primarily a function of the different funding incentives
that exist outside of the U.S. In certain countries, there are no legal requirements or financial
incentives provided to companies to pre-fund pension obligations. In these instances, benefit
payments are typically paid directly from the Company s cash as they become due.

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit retirement pension plans was $8,750 and
$8,611 at June 30, 2008 and June 30, 2007, respectively. Pension plans with accumulated benefit
obligations in excess of plan assets and plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan
assets consist of the following:

Net Periodic Benefit Cost.   Components of the net periodic benefit cost were as follows:

Pursuant to plan revisions adopted during 2007, Gillette s U.S. defined benefit retirement pension
plans were frozen effective January 1, 2008, at which time Gillette employees in the U.S. moved
into the P G defined contribution Profit Sharing Trust and Employee Stock Ownership Plan. This
revision resulted in a $154 curtailment gain for the year ended June 30, 2007.

Amounts expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net period
benefit cost during the year ending June 30, 2009, are as follows:

Other  

Pension  

Retiree  

Benefits  

Benefits  

Net actuarial loss

$ 
     31 

$ 
     4 

Prior service cost (credit)

17 

(23 
     ) 

Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified.

70      The Procter   Gamble Company

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

Assumptions.   We determine our actuarial assumptions on an annual basis. These assumptions
are weighted to reflect each country that may have an impact on the cost of providing retirement
benefits. The weighted average assumptions for the defined benefit and other retiree benefit
calculations, as well as assumed health care trend rates, were as follows:

(1) 
       
     Determined as of end of year. 

(2) 
       
     Determined as of beginning of year and adjusted for acquisitions. 

Several factors are considered in developing the estimate for the long-term expected rate of return
on plan assets. For the defined benefit retirement plans, these include historical rates of return
of broad equity and bond indices and projected long-term rates of return obtained from pension
investment consultants. The expected long-term rates of return for plan assets are 8%-9% for
equities and 5%-6% for bonds. For other retiree benefit plans, the expected long-term rate of
return reflects the fact that the assets are comprised primarily of Company stock. The expected
rate of return on Company stock is based on the long-term projected return of 9.5% and reflects the
historical pattern of favorable returns.

Assumed health care cost trend rates could have a significant effect on the amounts reported for
the other retiree benefit plans. A one-percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend
rates would have the following effects:

One-Percentage  

One-Percentage  

Point Increase  

Point Decrease  

Effect on total of service and interest cost
components

$ 
     60 

$ 
     (46 
     ) 

Effect on postretirement benefit obligation

505 

(411 
     ) 

Plan Assets.   Our target asset allocation for the year ended June 30, 2008, and actual asset
allocation by asset category as of June 30, 2008 and 2007, were as follows:

Our investment objective for defined benefit retirement plan assets is to meet the plans  benefit
obligations, while minimizing the potential for future required Company plan contributions. The
investment strategies focus on asset class diversification, liquidity to meet benefit payments and
an appropriate balance of long-term investment return and risk. Target ranges for asset allocations
are determined by matching the actuarial projections of the plans  future liabilities and benefit
payments with expected long-term rates of return on the assets, taking into account investment
return volatility and correlations across asset classes. Plan assets are diversified across several
investment managers and are generally invested in liquid funds that are selected to track broad
market equity and bond indices. Investment risk is carefully controlled with plan assets rebalanced
to target allocations on a periodic basis and continual monitoring of investment managers 
performance relative to the investment guidelines established with each investment manager.

Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

The Procter   Gamble Company    71 

Cash
Flows.   Management s best estimate of cash requirements for the defined benefit
retirement plans and other retiree benefit plans for the year ending June 30, 2009, is $575 and
$22, respectively. For the defined benefit retirement plans, this is comprised of $180 in expected
benefit payments from the Company directly to participants of unfunded plans and $395 of expected
contributions to funded plans. For other retiree benefit plans, this is comprised of expected
contributions that will be used directly for benefit payments. Expected contributions are dependent
on many variables, including the variability of the market value of the plan assets as compared to
the benefit obligation and other market or regulatory conditions. In addition, we take into
consideration our business investment opportunities and resulting cash requirements. Accordingly,
actual funding may differ significantly from current estimates.

Total benefit payments expected to be paid to participants, which include payments funded from
the Company s assets, as discussed above, as well as payments paid from the plans, are as
follows:

Employee Stock Ownership Plan 

We
maintain the ES0P to provide funding for certain employee benefits discussed in the
preceding paragraphs.

The ES0P
borrowed $1.0 billion in 1989 and the proceeds were used to purchase Series A ES0P
Convertible Class A Preferred Stock to fund a portion of the U.S. DC plan. Principal and interest
requirements of the borrowing were paid by the Trust from dividends on the preferred shares and
from advances provided by the Company. The original borrowing of $1.0 billion has been repaid in
full, and advances from the Company of $ 197 remain outstanding at June 30, 2008. Each share is
convertible at the option of the holder into one share of the Company s common stock. The dividend
for the current year was equal to the common stock dividend of $1.45 per share. The liquidation
value is $6.82 per share.

In 1991, the ESOP borrowed an additional $1.0 billion. The proceeds were used to purchase Series B
ESOP Convertible Class A Preferred Stock to fund a portion of retiree health care benefits. These
shares, net of the ESOP s debt, are considered plan assets of the Other Retiree Benefits plan
discussed above. Debt service requirements are funded by preferred stock dividends, cash
contributions and advances provided by the Company, of which $194 is outstanding at June 30, 2008.

Each share is convertible at the option of the holder into one share of the Company s common
stock. The dividend for the current year was equal to the common stock dividend of $1.45 per
share. The liquidation value is $12.96 per share.

As permitted by SOP 93-6,  Employers Accounting for Employee Stock Ownership Plans,  we have
elected, where applicable, to continue our practices, which are based on SOP 76-3,  Accounting
Practices for Certain Employee Stock Ownership Plans.  ESOP debt, which is guaranteed by the
Company, is recorded as debt (see Note 5) with an offset to the Reserve for ESOP debt retirement,
which is presented within Shareholders  Equity. Advances to the ESOP by the Company are recorded as
an increase in the Reserve for ESOP Debt Retirement. Interest incurred on the ESOP debt is recorded
as interest expense. Dividends on all preferred shares, net of related tax benefits, are charged to
retained earnings.

The series A and B preferred shares of the ESOP are allocated to employees based on debt service
requirements, net of advances made by the Company to the Trust. The number of preferred shares
outstanding at June 30 was as follows:

For purposes of calculating diluted net earnings per common share, the preferred shares held by the
ESOP are considered converted from inception.

In connection with the Gillette acquisition, we assumed the Gillette ESOP, which was established to
assist Gillette employees in financing retiree medical costs. These ESOP accounts are held by
participants and must be used to reduce the Company s other retiree benefit obligations. Such
accounts reduced our obligation by $201 at June 30, 2008.

Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified.

72    The Procter   Gamble Company

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

NOTE 10  

INCOME TAXES 

Under SFAS 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes,  income taxes are recognized for the amount of taxes
payable for the current year and for the impact of deferred tax liabilities and assets, which
represent future tax consequences of events that have been recognized differently in the financial
statements than for tax purposes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are established using the
enacted statutory tax rates and are adjusted for any changes in such rates in the period of change.

Earnings before income taxes consisted of the following:

The income tax provision consisted of the following:

A reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate to our actual income tax rate is
provided below:

Income tax reserve adjustments represent changes in estimated exposures related to prior year
tax positions.

As discussed in Note 1, on July 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN 48). The adoption of FIN 48 resulted in a decrease to retained
earnings as of July 1, 2007, of $232, which was reflected as a cumulative effect of a change in
accounting principle, with a corresponding increase to the net liability for unrecognized tax
benefits. The impact primarily reflects the accrual of additional statutory interest and penalties
as required
by FIN 48, partially offset by adjustments to existing unrecognized tax benefits to comply with FIN
48 measurement principles. The implementation of FIN 48 also resulted in a reduction in our net tax
liabilities for uncertain tax positions related to prior acquisitions accounted for under purchase
accounting, resulting in an $80 decrease to goodwill. Additionally, the Company historically
classified unrecognized tax benefits in current taxes payable. As a result of the adoption of FIN
48, unrecognized tax benefits not expected to be paid in the next 12 months were reclassified to
other noncurrent liabilities.

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:

Included in the total unrecognized tax benefits is $1,563 that, if recognized, would impact the
effective tax rate in future periods.

We recognize accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax
expense. Accrued interest and penalties as of June 30, 2008, were $656 and $155, respectively, and
are not included in the above table. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, we recognized $213
and $35 in interest and penalties, respectively.

The Company is present in over 140 taxable jurisdictions, and at any point in time, has 30 40
audits underway at various stages of completion. We evaluate our tax positions and establish
liabilities for uncertain tax positions that may be challenged by local authorities and may not be
fully sustained, despite our belief that the underlying tax positions are fully supportable.
Uncertain tax positions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are adjusted in light of changing
facts and circumstances, including progress of tax audits, developments in case law, and closing of
statute of limitations. Such adjustments are reflected in the tax provision as appropriate. The
Company has made a concerted effort to bring its audit inventory to a more current position. We
have done this by working with tax authorities to conduct audits for several open years at once. We
have tax years open ranging from 1997 and forward. We have $318 related to uncertain tax positions
classified as current, for which we expect settlement to be made in the next 12 months. For the
remaining uncertain tax positions, it is difficult at this time to estimate the timing of the
resolution. In addition, we are generally not able to reliably estimate the ultimate settlement
amounts until the close of the audit. While we do not expect material changes, it is possible that
the amount of unrecognized benefit with respect to our uncertain tax positions will significantly
increase or decrease within the next 12 months related to the audits described

Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

The Procter   Gamble Company   73 

above. At this time we are not able to make a reasonable estimate of the range of impact on
the balance of unrecognized tax benefits or the impact on the effective tax rate related to these
items.

Tax benefits credited to shareholders  equity totaled $1,823 and $1,066 for the years ended June
30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These primarily relate to the tax effects of net investment
hedges, excess tax benefits from the exercise of stock options and the impacts of certain
adjustments to pension and other retiree benefit obligations recorded in shareholders  equity,
including the impact of adopting SFAS 158 in 2007.

We have undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries of approximately $21 billion at June 30,
2008, for which deferred taxes have not been provided. Such earnings are considered indefinitely
invested in the foreign subsidiaries. If such earnings were repatriated, additional tax expense may
result, although the calculation of such additional taxes is not practicable.

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities were comprised of the following:

Net operating loss carryforwards were $1,515 and $1,442 at June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. If
unused, $629 will expire between 2009 and 2028. The remainder, totaling $886 at June 30, 2008, may
be carried forward indefinitely.

NOTE 11  

COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 

Guarantees 

In conjunction with certain transactions, primarily divestitures, we may provide routine
indemnifications (e.g., indemnification for representations and warranties and retention of
previously existing environmental, tax and employee liabilities) of which terms range in duration
and in some circumstances are not explicitly defined. The maximum obligation under some
indemnifications is not explicitly stated and, as a result, the overall amount of these obligations
cannot be reasonably estimated. Other than obligations recorded as liabilities at the time of
divestiture, we have not made significant payments for these indemnifications. We believe that if
we were to incur a loss on any of these matters, the loss would not have a material effect on our
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

In certain situations, we guarantee loans for suppliers and customers. The total amount of
guarantees issued under such arrangements is not material.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

We do not have off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including variable interest entities,
under FIN 46(R),  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,  that have a material impact on our
financial statements.

Purchase Commitments 

We have purchase commitments for materials, supplies, services and property, plant and equipment as
part of the normal course of business. Commitments made under take-or-pay obligations are as
follows: 2009 $1,205; 2010 $917; 2011 $745; 2012 $688; 2013 $408; and $363 thereafter. Such amounts
represent future purchases in line with expected usage to obtain favorable pricing. Approximately
35% of our purchase commitments relate to service contracts for information technology, human
resources management and facilities management activities that were outsourced in recent years. Due
to the proprietary nature of many of our materials and processes, certain supply contracts contain
penalty provisions for early termination. We do not expect to incur penalty payments under these
provisions that would materially affect our financial position, results of operations or cash
flows.

Operating Leases 

We lease certain property and equipment for varying periods. Future minimum rental commitments
under noncancelable operating leases are as follows: 2009 $299; 2010 $288; 2011 $240; 2012 $196;
2013 $185; and $448 thereafter. Operating lease obligations are shown net of guaranteed sublease
income.

Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified.

74      The Procter   Gamble Company

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

Litigation 

We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims arising out of our business which cover a
wide range of matters such as governmental regulations, antitrust and trade regulations, product
liability, patent and trademark matters, income taxes and other actions.

Recently, the Company became subject to a variety of investigations into potential competition law
violations in the European Union, including investigations initiated in the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2008 by the European Commission with the assistance of the national authorities from a
variety of countries. We believe these matters involve a number of other consumer products
companies and/or retail customers. The Company s policy is to comply with all laws and regulations,
including all antitrust and competition laws. Competition and antitrust law inquiries often
continue for several years and, if violations are found, can result in substantial fines. At this
point, no significant formal claims have been made against the Company or any of our subsidiaries
in connection with any of the above inquiries. We cannot at this time predict the final financial
impact of these competition law issues. However, the ultimate resolution of these matters could
result in fines or other costs that could materially impact future results. As these matters evolve
we will, if necessary, recognize the appropriate reserves.

With respect to other litigation and claims, while considerable uncertainty exists, in the opinion
of management and our counsel, the ultimate resolution of the various lawsuits and claims will not
materially affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

We are also subject to contingencies pursuant to environmental laws and regulations that in the
future may require us to take action to correct the effects on the environment of prior
manufacturing and waste disposal practices. Based on currently available information, we do not
believe the ultimate resolution of environmental remediation will have a material adverse effect on
our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

NOTE 12  

SEGMENT INFORMATION 

Effective July 1, 2007, we made a number of changes to our organizational structure and certain of
our key leadership positions. These resulted in changes to our Global Business Units (GBU) and
reporting segment structure. The following discussion and segment information reflect the
organizational changes for all periods presented. We are organized under three Global Business
Units as follows:

The Beauty GBU includes the Beauty and the Grooming businesses.
The Beauty business is comprised of cosmetics, deodorants, prestige
fragrances, hair care, personal cleansing and skin care. The Grooming
business includes blades and razors, electric hair removal devices,
face and shave products and home appliances. 

The Health and Well-Being GBU includes the Health Care and
the Snacks, Coffee and Pet Care businesses. The Health Care business includes feminine care, oral care, personal health care and
Pharmaceuticals. The Snacks, Coffee and Pet Care business includes coffee, pet food and snacks. 

The Household Care GBU includes the Fabric Care and Home Care as well as the Baby Care and
Family Care businesses. The Fabric Care and Home Care business includes air care, batteries,
dish care, fabric care and surface care. The Baby Care and Family Care business includes baby
wipes, bath tissue, diapers, facial tissue and paper towels. 

Under U.S. GAAP, we have six reportable segments: Beauty; Grooming; Health Care; Snacks, Coffee and
Pet Care; Fabric Care and Home Care; and Baby Care and Family Care. The accounting policies of the
businesses are generally the same as those described in Note 1. Differences between these policies
and U.S. GAAP primarily reflect: income taxes, which are reflected in the businesses using
applicable blended statutory rates; the recording of fixed assets at historical exchange rates in
certain high-inflation economies; and the treatment of certain unconsolidated investees. Certain
unconsolidated investees are managed as integral parts of our business units for management
reporting purposes. Accordingly, these partially owned operations are reflected as consolidated
subsidiaries in segment results, with 100% recognition of the individual income statement line
items through before-tax earnings. Eliminations to adjust these line items to U.S. GAAP are
included in Corporate. In determining after-tax earnings for the businesses, we eliminate the share
of earnings applicable to other ownership interests, in a manner similar to minority interest, and
apply statutory tax rates. Adjustments to arrive at our effective tax rate are also included in
Corporate.

Corporate includes certain operating and non-operating activities that are not reflected in the
operating results used internally to measure and evaluate the businesses, as well as eliminations
to adjust management reporting principles to U.S. GAAP. Operating activities in Corporate include
the results of incidental businesses managed at the corporate level along with the elimination of
individual revenues and expenses generated by certain unconsolidated investees discussed in the
preceding paragraph over which we exert significant influence, but do not control. Operating
elements also comprise certain employee benefit costs, the costs of certain restructuring-type
activities to maintain a competitive cost structure including manufacturing and workforce
rationalization and other general corporate items. The non-operating elements primarily include
interest expense, divestiture gains and interest and investing income. In addition, Corporate
includes the historical results of certain divested businesses, including certain Gillette brands
that were divested in 2006 as required by the regulatory authorities in relation to the Gillette
acquisition. Corporate assets primarily include cash, investment securities and all goodwill.

We had net sales in the U.S. of $33.0 billion, $31.9 billion and $29.5 billion for the years ended
June 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Assets in the U.S. totaled $73.8 billion and $73.5
billion as of June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for 15% of consolidated
net sales in 2008, 2007 and 2006.

Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

The Procter   Gamble Company     75 

Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified.

76   The Procter   Gamble Company

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

NOTE 13  

QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) 

Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified.

The Procter   Gamble Company    77

Corporate Officers 

CORPORATE   COMPANY OPERATIONS 

A.G. Lafley  
Chairman of the Board and  Chief Executive Officer

Susan E. Arnold  
President Global Business Units

Robert A. McDonald  
Chief Operating Officer

Clayton C. Daley, Jr.  
Vice Chairman and  Chief Financial Officer

Moheet Nagrath  
Global Human Resources Officer

Bruce Brown  
Chief Technology Officer

R. Keith Harrison, Jr.  
Global Product Supply Officer

Steven W. Jemison  
Chief Legal Officer and Secretary

Mariano Martin  
Global Customer Business Development Officer

Charlotte R. Otto  
Global External Relations Officer

Filippo Passerini  
President Global Business Services and Chief Information Officer

Marc S. Pritchard  
Global Marketing Officer

Jon R. Moeller  
Vice President and Treasurer

Valarie L. Sheppard  
Vice President and Comptroller

GLOBAL OPERATIONS 

Werner Geissler  
Vice Chairman Global Operations

Deborah A. Henretta  
Group President Asia

Laurent L. Philippe  
Group President Central   Eastern Europe, Middle East   Africa

Steven D. Bishop  
President North America

Giovanni Ciserani  
President Western Europe

Daniela Riccardi  
President Greater China

Jeffrey K. Schomburger  
President Global Wal-Mart Team

Jorge A. Uribe  
President Latin America

GLOBAL BEAUTY   GROOMING 

Edward D. Shirley 

Vice
Chairman Global Beauty   Grooming

Charles V. Bergh  
Group President Global Personal Care

Christopher de Lapuente  
Group President Global Hair Care

Juan Pedro Hernandez  
President Braun

Virginia C. Drosos  
President Global Personal Beauty

Robert Jongstra  
President Global Professional Care

Hartwig Langer  
President Global Prestige Products

GLOBAL HEALTH   WELL-BEING 

Robert A. Steele  
Vice Chairman Global Health   Well-Being

Melanie Healey  
Group President Global Feminine   Health Care

Charles E. Pierce  
Group President Global Oral Care

John P. Goodwin  
President Global Snacks   Pet Care

Jamie P. Egasti  
President Coffee

Thomas M. Finn  
President Global Health Care

GLOBAL HOUSEHOLD CARE 

Dimitri Panayotopoulos  
Vice Chairman Global Household Care

Jorge S. Mesquita  
Group President Global Fabric Care

Martin Riant  
Group President Global Baby Care

David S. Taylor  
Group President Global Home Care

Mark Bertolami 

President Duracell

Mary Lynn Ferguson-McHugh  
President Family Care

Sharon J. Mitchell  
Senior Vice President Research   Development, Global Fabric Care

The
following company officers have announced their intention to retire during the 2008/09 fiscal year:  

Ravi Chaturvedi  
President Northeast Asia

G. Gilbert Cloyd  
Chief Technology Officer

James R. Stengel  
Global Marketing Officer

78     The Procter   Gamble Company

Board of Directors 

Bruce L. Byrnes 

Retired Vice Chairman of the Board Global Brand Building Training. Director since 2002. Also a
Director of Cincinnati Bell Inc. Age 60. Mr. Byrnes retired from the Board of Directors following
the Company s June, 2008 Board meeting.

Kenneth I. Chenault 

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the American Express Company (financial services).
Appointed to the Board on April 21, 2008. Also a Director of International Business Machines
Corporation. Age 57. Member of the Audit and Compensation   Leadership Development Committees.

Scott D. Cook 

Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board, Intuit Inc. (software and web services). Director
since 2000. Also a Director of eBay Inc. Age 56. Member of the Compensation   Leadership
Development and Innovation   Technology Committees.

Rajat
K. Gupta 

Senior
Partner Emeritus at McKinsey   Company (international consulting). Director since 2007. Also
a Director of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Genpact, Ltd. and American Airlines. Age 59. Member of
the Audit and Innovation   Technology Committees.

A.G. Lafley 

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Director since 2000. Also a
Director of General Electric Company and Dell Inc. Age 61.

Charles R. Lee 

Retired Chairman of the Board and Co-Chief Executive Officer of Verizon Communications Inc.
(telecommunication services). Director since 1994. Also a Director of The DIRECTV Group, Inc.,
Marathon Oil Corporation, United Technologies Corporation and US Steel Corporation. Age 68. Chair
of the Audit Committee and member of the Compensation   Leadership Development Committee.

Lynn M. Martin 

Former Professor at the J.L. Kellogg Graduate School of Management, Northwestern University and
former Chair of the Council for the Advancement of Women and Advisor to the firm of Deloitte  
Touche LLP for Deloitte s internal human resources and minority advancement matters. Director since
1994. Also a Director of AT T Inc., Ryder System, Inc., Dreyfus Funds and Constellation Energy
Group, Inc. Age 68. Member of the Governance   Public Responsibility and Innovation   Technology
Committees.

W. James McNerney, Jr. 

Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of The Boeing Company (aerospace,
commercial jetliners and military defense systems). Director since 2003. Age 59. Presiding
Director, Chair of the Compensation   Leadership Development Committee and member of the Governance
  Public Responsibility Committee.

Johnathan A. Rodgers 

President
and Chief Executive Officer of TV One, LLC (media and communications). Director since
2001. Also a Director of Nike, Inc. Age 62. Member of the Innovation   Technology Committee.

John F. Smith, Jr. 

Retired
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of General Motors Corporation (automobiles
and related businesses) and retired Chairman of the Board of Delta Air Lines, Inc. Director since
1995. Also a Director of Swiss Reinsurance Company. Age 70. Mr. Smith retired from the Board of
Directors following the Company s April, 2008 Board meeting.

Ralph Snyderman, M.D. 

Chancellor Emeritus, James B. Duke Professor of Medicine at Duke University. Director since 1995.
Also a Director of Targacept, Inc. and a Venture Partner of NEA. Age 68. Chair of the Innovation  
Technology Committee and member of the Audit Committee.

Margaret C. Whitman 

Former
President and Chief Executive Officer of eBay Inc. (global internet company that includes
online marketplaces, payments and communications). Director since 2003. Also a Director of eBay
Inc. and Dreamworks Animation SKG, Inc. Age 52. Chair of the Governance   Public Responsibility
Committee and member of the Compensation   Leadership Development Committee.

Patricia A. Woertz 

Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of Archer Daniels Midland Company (agricultural
processors of oilseeds, corn, wheat, and cocoa). Appointed to the Board on January 8, 2008. Age 55.
Member of the Audit and Governance   Public Responsibility Committees.

Ernesto Zedillo 

Former President of Mexico, Director of the Center for the Study of Globalization and Professor in
the field of International Economics and Politics at Yale University.
Director since 2001. Also a Director of Alcoa Inc. and Electronic Data Systems Corporation. Age 56. Member of the
Governance   Public Responsibility and Innovation   Technology Committees.

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS HAS FOUR COMMITTEES: 

Audit Committee

Compensation   Leadership Development Committee Governance   Public Responsibility
Committee Innovation   Technology Committee

The Procter   Gamble Company      79

Shareholder Information 

IF...

You need online access or help with your account 

You are interested in our certificate safekeeping service 

You want to arrange for direct deposit or reinvestment of dividends 

You have a lost, stolen or destroyed stock certificate 

CALL PERSON-TO-PERSON 

Automated service available after USA business hours 

CONTACT P G 24 HOURS A DAY 

Visit us online at www.pg.com/investor, where you can get stock
purchase information, transaction forms, Company annual reports
and webcasts 

E-mail us at shareholders.im@pg.com 

COMMON STOCK PRICE RANGE AND DIVIDENDS 

DIVIDEND HISTORY 

P G has paid dividends without interruption since its incorporation in 1890, and has increased
dividends each year for the past 52 fiscal years. Over the past 52 years, P G s compound annual
dividend growth has exceeded 9%.

CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS 

The Procter   Gamble Company 
P.O. Box 599 
Cincinnati, OH 45201-0599

TRANSFER AGENT/SHAREHOLDER SERVICES 

The Procter   Gamble Company 
Shareholder Services Department 
P.O. Box 5572 
Cincinnati, OH 45201-5572

REGISTRAR 

The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. 
Corporate Trust Division 
525 Vine Street, Suite 900 
Cincinnati, OH 45202

EXCHANGE LISTING 

New York, Paris

STOCK SYMBOL 

PG

SHAREHOLDERS OF COMMON STOCK 

There were approximately 2,231,000 common stock shareowners, including shareholders of record,
participants in the Shareholder Investment Program, participants in P G stock ownership plans and
beneficial owners with accounts at banks and brokerage firms, as of June 30, 2008.

FORM 10-K 

Shareholders may obtain a copy of P G s 2008 report to the Securities and Exchange Commission on
Form 10-K by going to www.pg.com/investor or by calling us at 1-800-764-7483. This information is
also available at no charge by sending a request to Shareholder Services at the address listed
above.

The most recent certifications by our Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are filed as exhibits to our Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended June 30, 2008. We have also filed with the New York Stock Exchange the most recent
Annual CEO certification as required by Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock Exchange Listed
Company Manual.

ANNUAL MEETING 

The next annual meeting of shareholders will be held on Tuesday, October 14, 2008. A full
transcript of the meeting will be available from Susan Felder, Assistant Secretary. Ms. Felder can
be reached at 299 East Sixth Street, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202-3315.

80     The Procter   Gamble Company

Financial Summary (Unaudited) 

The Procter   Gamble Company      81

Shareholder Return Performance Graphs 

The following graph compares the five-year cumulative total return of P G s common stock as
compared with the S P 500 Stock Index, the Dow Jones Industrial Average Index, and a composite
group comprised of the S P Household Products Index, the
S P Paper Products Index, the S P Personal
Products Index, the S P Health Care Index and the S P Food Index. The composite group is weighted
based on P G s current fiscal year revenues. The graph assumes $100 was invested on June 30, 2003
and that all dividends were reinvested.

COMPARISON OF FIVE-YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN 

P G has paid dividends without interruption since its incorporation along with the increased
dividends each year for the past 52 fiscal years. P G s compound annual dividend growth rate
has exceeded 9% over the last 52 years.

DIVIDENDS PER SHARE (split-adjusted) 

82     The Procter   Gamble Company

P G at a Glance 

Net Sales  

by GBU  
       (1)   

GBU  
       
      Reportable Segment  
       
      Key Products  
       
      Billion Dollar Brands  
       
      (in billions)  

BEAUTY 

Beauty

Cosmetics, Deodorants, 
Hair Care, Personal 
Cleansing, Prestige 
Fragrances, Skin Care

Head   Shoulders, Olay, 
Pantene, Wella

$  
      27.8  

Grooming

Blades and Razors,
Electric Hair Removal
Devices, Face and Shave
Products, Home
Appliances

Braun, Fusion, Gillette, Mach3 

HEALTH AND WELL-BEING 

Health Care

Feminine Care, Oral 
Care, Personal Health 
Care, Pharmaceuticals

Actonel, Always, Crest, Oral-B

$  
      19.4  

Snacks, Coffee and
Pet Care

Coffee, Pet Food, Snacks

Folgers, lams, Pringles 

HOUSEHOLD CARE 

Fabric Care and
Home Care

Air Care, Batteries, 
Dish Care, Fabric Care, 
Surface Care

Ariel, Dawn, Downy, Duracell, 
Gain, Tide

$  
      37.7  

Baby Care and
Family Care

Baby Wipes, Bath 
Tissue, Diapers, Facial 
Tissue, Paper Towels

Bounty, Charmin, Pampers 

(1) 
       
     Partially offset by net sales in corporate to eliminate the sales of unconsolidated entities
included in business unit results. 

2008 NET SALES 

(% of total business segments)

RECOGNITION 

P G is recognized as a leading global company, including a #5 ranking on  Fortune s   Global Most
Admired Companies,  the #2 ranking on  Fortune s   Top Companies for Leaders  survey, the #4 ranking
on  Barren s   World s Most Respected List,  a #8 ranking on  Business Week s  list of  World s Most
Innovative Companies,  top rankings on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index from 2000-2008, the
 Advertiser of the Year  award at the 2008 Cannes International Advertising Festival, and a
consistent #1 ranking within our industry on  Fortune s  Most Admired list for 23 of 24 total years
and for 11 years in a row.

P G ranks among the top companies for Executive Women (National Association for Female Executives),
African Americans  (Working Mother and Black Enterprise  Magazines), and Diversity  (Diversity Inc. 
Magazine).

Supplier diversity is a fundamental business strategy at P G. In 2008, P G again spent over $1.9
billion with minority- and women-owned businesses. Since 2005, P G has been a member of the Billion
Dollar Roundtable, a forum of 14 corporations that spend more than $1 billion annually with diverse
suppliers.

The paper utilized in the printing of
this annual report is certified by SmartWood
to the FSC Standards, which promotes environmentally appropriate, socially beneficial and
economically viable management of the world s
forests. The paper contains a mix of pulp
that is derived from FSC certified
well-managed forests; post-consumer recycled
paper fibers and other controlled sources.

 Design: VSA Partners, Inc.

Sustainability   innovation 

Improving quality of life, now and for generations to come 

At p G, sustainability is embedded into both our business strategy and our holistic view of innovation. By incorporating sustainability into the rhythm of our work, we delight consumers who want to make sustainable choices but do not want to make trade-offs in performance or value. We believe this is where p g innovation can make the most meaningful difference. 

By viewing innovation systematically through the lens of sustainability 

we define innovation broadly, looking for sustainability opportunities at every touch-point along the path of our product. 

this definition encompasses raw materials formulation, manufacturing customization, logistics, customers and consumers. in fact we find that a big innovation in one part of the path often sparks innovations in other areas.. for example when we moved our line of liquid laundry detergents in north America to 2x concentration we delivered significant environmental improvements in water energy and co2 usage as a result of the products packaging changes a significan
t reduction in distribution miles. in addition we innovated in our customer interface to reduce solid waste. 

we invest in innovation to improve the environment profile of our operations and products 

in addition to investing in product development of more sustainable products we have systematized the process of sustainable designing and building new facilities in box elder utah we recently broke ground on a state of the art manufacturing facility that will deliver improvements in energy water solid and indoor environmental quality. 

touching lives improving life p g 

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 12
 l32996aexv21.htm
 EX-21

EX-21 

EXHIBIT (21)

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

AB Tudor Hellesens  Sweden 

AG f r Aetherische Oele  Switzerland 

Agile Pursuits, Inc.  Ohio 

Alejandro Llauro E. Hijos S.A.I.C.  Argentina 

An-Pro Company  Ohio 

Atkinsons of London Ltd.  U.K. 

B C International Co. (BVI) Ltd.  British Virgin Islands 

B.V.B.A. Intercosmetic S.P.R.L.  Belgium 

Beauty Center AG  Russia 

Becruz, S.A. de C.V.  Mexico 

Belcosa Distribuidora de Cosmeticos Ltda.  Brazil 

Belfam Industria Cosmetic S.A.  Brazil 

Betrix Cosmetic GmbH  Germany 

Braun (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.  China 

Braun (Shanghai) International Trading Co., Ltd.  China 

Braun de Mexico y Compania de C.V.  Mexico 

Braun Espanola, Sociedad Anonima  Spain 

Braun GmbH  Germany 

Braun Oral-B Ireland Limited  Ireland 

Braun-Gillette Immobilien GmbH   Co. KG  Germany 

CAMADA Grundst cks-GmbH   Co. OHG  Germany 

Celtic Insurance Company Limited  Bermuda 

Chemlog LLC  Ohio 

Chemo Laboratories Manufacturing  Malaysia 

China Battery Limited  Hong Kong 

Clairol Brasil Higiene e Cosmeticos Ltda  Brazil 

Clairol Limited  U.K. 

Clivia Publicidade Ltda.  Brazil 

Colfax Laboratories (India) Ltd.  India 

Colton Razor Blade Company  Massachusetts 

Compania Giva, S.A.  Delaware 

Compania Interamericana Gillette, S.A.  Panama 

Compania Procter   Gamble Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.  Mexico 

Compa ia Quimica S.A.  Argentina 

Consumer Studies, Inc.  Massachusetts 

Corporativo Procter   Gamble, S. de R.L. de C.V.  Mexico 

Corpydes S.A. de C.V.  Mexico 

Cosmetic Products Pty. Ltd.  Australia 

Cosmetic Research Bureau, Inc.  Delaware 

Cosmetic Suppliers Pty. Ltd.  Australia 

Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name

EXHIBIT (21)

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Cosmetics Beauty Inc.  New Jersey 

Cosmital S.A.  Switzerland 

Cosmonor Distribuidora de Cosm ti  Brazil 

Cosmopolitan Cosmetics (Pty) Ltd.  South Africa 

Cosmopolitan Cosmetics China Ltd.  Hong Kong 

Cosmopolitan Cosmetics GmbH  Germany 

Cosmopolitan Cosmetics Inc.  Florida 

Cosmopolitan Cosmetics International GmbH   Co. oHG  Germany 

Cosmopolitan Cosmetics K.K.  Japan 

Cosmopolitan Cosmetics Korea Co.,  Republic of Korea 

Cosmopolitan Cosmetics Ltd.  Hong Kong 

Cosmopolitan Cosmetics S.r.l.  Italy 

Cosmoresearch Co. Ltd.  Japan 

Crest Toothpaste Inc.  Canada 

Detergent Products A.G.  Switzerland 

Deutsche Procter   Gamble Unternehmensbeteiligungs GmbH   Co. Operations oHG  Germany 

Deutsche Procter   Gamble Unternehmensbeteiligungs GmbH  Germany 

Dicosma Distribuidora de Cosm tic  Brazil 

Dictus Grundst cks-Verwaltungsges  Germany 

Dietmar Bt.  Hungary 

District Pet Imaging, LLC  Ohio 

Duracell (1993) Ltd.  U.K. 

Duracell (China) Ltd.  China 

Duracell Batteries B.V.B.A.  Belgium 

Duracell Batteries Ltd.  U.K. 

Duracell do Brasil Industria e Comercio Ltda.  Brazil 

Eastern European Supply Company  Ukraine 

Eau de Cologne-   Parfumerie-Fabrik GmbH  Germany 

Ecopan Inc.  Panama 

Empresa de elaboracion, importacion, y venta de productos Gillette, S.A. de C.V.  Guatemala 

Ensambles de Silleria de Mexico S.A. de C.V.  Mexico 

Escada Cosmetics Ltd  Republic of Korea 

Eurocos Cosmetic GmbH  Germany 

European Beauty Products (U.K.) Limited  U.K. 

Explotadora de Inmuebles Magdalena, S.A.  Mexico 

Feraris BT  Hungary 

FF Trademark, LLC  Delaware 

Finco do Brasil Fomento Comercial Ltda.  Brazil 

FINCO HOLDINGS (BVI) Inc.  British Virgin Islands 

Fine Beauty Care (Pte) Ltd.  Namibia 

Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name

EXHIBIT (21)

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

FINPAR-Finco do Brasil Participac  Brazil 

Finpark  U.K. 

Finusa S.A.  Argentina 

F-Net Co., Ltd.  Japan 

Foreign Company  Procter   Gamble   Belarus 

Fountain Square Music Publishing Co., Inc.  Ohio 

Frederic Fekkai   Co., LLC  Delaware 

Frederic Fekkai   Company (Soho), LLC  New York 

Frederic Fekkai (Mark NY), LLC  Delaware 

Frederic Fekkai Beverly Hills, LLC  Calfornia 

Frederic Fekkai Dallas, LLC  Delaware 

Frederic Fekkai Greenwich, LLC  Delaware 

Frederic Fekkai Las Vegas, LLC  Delaware 

Frederic Fekkai Melrose Place, LLC  California 

Frederic Fekkai New York, LLC  New York 

Frederic Fekkai NY II, LLC  Delaware 

Frederic Fekkai Palm Beach, LLC  Florida 

Frederic Holding Co.  Delaware 

Frederic Holding Co.  Delaware 

Frederic, LLC  Delaware 

Fruehling Cosmetics Co. Ltd.  Thailand 

Fujian Nanping Nanfu Battery Co., Ltd.  China 

Gala Cosmetics International Limited  U.K. 

Gala Marketing  Ukraine 

Gala of London Limited  U.K. 

Garrity Industries Inc.  Connecticut 

Gilfin B.V.  Netherlands 

Gilfin Holding B.V.  Netherlands 

Gillette (China) Ltd.  China 

Gillette (Malaysia) Sdn. Berhad  Malaysia 

Gillette (Philippines) Inc.  Philippines 

Gillette (Shanghai) Ltd.  China 

Gillette (Shanghai) Sales Company Limited  China 

Gillette (Thailand) Limited  Thailand 

Gillette Aesop Ltd.  U.K. 

Gillette Argentina Holding LLC  Delaware 

Gillette Argentina S.A.  Argentina 

Gillette Australia Pty. Ltd.  Australia 

Gillette Bangladesh Private Ltd.  Bangladesh 

Gillette Belgium Holding LLC  Delaware 

Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name

EXHIBIT (21)

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Gillette Berlin Holding GmbH  Germany 

Gillette Canada Holdings, Inc.  Delaware 

Gillette Canada Overseas Holding Company  Canada 

Gillette CEEMEA Holding, LLC  Ohio 

Gillette Central Services Limited  U.K. 

Gillette China Investment Ltd.  Bermuda 

Gillette Commercial Operations North America  Massachusetts 

Gillette Czech and Ukraine Holding, LLC  Ohio 

Gillette de Mexico, Inc.  Delaware 

Gillette de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.  Mexico 

Gillette del Uruguay, S.A.  Uruguay 

Gillette Deutschland GmbH   Co. oHG  Germany 

Gillette Distribution Ltd.  Egypt 

Gillette Diversified Operations Pvt. Ltd.  India 

Gillette Dominicana, S.A.  Dominican Republic 

Gillette Egypt S.A.E.  Egypt 

Gillette European Services Centre Ltd.  U.K. 

Gillette Financial Holding B.V.  Netherlands 

Gillette Fountain LLC  Delaware 

Gillette GOK Holding LLC  Ohio 

Gillette Group (Europe) Holding B.V.  Netherlands 

Gillette Group (S.E.A.) Pte. Ltd.  Singapore 

Gillette Group India Private Limited  India 

Gillette Group U.K. Ltd  U.K. 

Gillette Gruppe Deutschland GmbH   Co. oHG  Germany 

Gillette Holding Company, Inc.  Delaware 

Gillette Holding GmbH  Germany 

Gillette Hong Kong Limited  Hong Kong 

Gillette India Limited  India 

Gillette Industries Ltd.  U.K. 

Gillette International B.V.  Netherlands 

Gillette Ireland Limited  Ireland 

Gillette Korea Holding B.V.  Netherlands 

Gillette Lanka (Private) Ltd.  Sri Lanka 

Gillette Latin America Holding B.V.  Netherlands 

Gillette Management (S.E.A.) Pte. Ltd.  Singapore 

Gillette Management LLC  Delaware 

Gillette Morocco SAS  Morocco 

Gillette Nova Scotia Company  Canada 

Gillette Pakistan Limited  Pakistan 

Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name

EXHIBIT (21)

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Gillette Petersburg Investment Inc.  Delaware 

Gillette Poland International sp. z.o.o.  Poland 

Gillette Poland S.A.  Poland 

Gillette Products Private Limited  India 

Gillette Puerto Rico LLC  Puerto Rico 

Gillette Safety Razor Company  Massachusetts 

Gillette Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S.  Turkey 

Gillette Southern Cone, LLC  Ohio 

Gillette Stationery Benelux B.V.  Netherlands 

Gillette Taiwan, LLC  Delaware 

Gillette U.K. Limited  U.K. 

Gillette Ukraine LLC  Ukraine 

Gillette Verwaltungs GmbH  Germany 

Gillette Worldwide Holding LLC  Delaware 

Giorgio Beverly Hills, Inc.  Delaware 

Global Business Services de Costa Rica Limitada  Costa Rica 

Graham Webb International, Inc.  Delaware 

Greshem Cosmetics Pty. Ltd  Australia 

Grupo Gillette, S. de R.L. de C.V.  Mexico 

Handelsmaatschappij Van Ravensberg  Netherlands 

HDS Cosmetics Lab Inc.  Delaware 

Herman Leps e A/S  Norway 

Hikari Biyo Kagaku Co. Ltd.  Japan 

Humatro Corporation  Delaware 

Hyginett KFT  Hungary 

Iams Argentina S.A.  Argentina 

Iams Chile Limitada  Chile 

Iams do Brasil Comercial, Exportadora e Importadora Ltda.  Brazil 

Iams Europe B.V.  Netherlands 

Iams Global, Inc.  Ohio 

Iams Japan K.K.  Japan 

Iams Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.  Mexico 

Iams New Zealand Limited  New Zealand 

Iams Pet Food International N.V.  Netherlands 

Iams Pet Imaging, Inc.  Ohio 

Iams Pet Imaging, LLC  Ohio 

Iams S. Africa Pty.  S. Africa 

Iams U.K. Limited  U.K. 

Industrias Modernas, S.A.  Guatemala 

Industries Marocaines Modernes  Morocco 

Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name

EXHIBIT (21)

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Inmobiliaria Procter   Gamble de Venezuela, S.C.S.  Venezuela 

Inmobiliaria Procter   Gamble de Venezuela, S.R.L.  Venezuela 

Intercosmetic BVBA  Belgium 

Interkosmetic Gesellschaft m.b.H.  Austria 

Intpropco S.A.  Switzerland 

Inverta Verwaltungs GmbH  Germany 

Ipse Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH  Germany 

Juvian Fabric Care Corporation  Ohio 

Kadabell GmbH   Co. KG  Germany 

Kadabell GmbH  Germany 

Komal Manufacturing Chemists Ltd.  India 

Labocos S.r.l.  Italy 

Laboratorios Vicks, S.L.  Spain 

Liberty Street Music Publishing Company, Inc.  Ohio 

Limited Liability Company  Procter   Gamble Trading Ukraine   Ukraine 

LLC  Gillette Group   Russia 

LLC  Procter   Gamble Manufacturing Istra   Russia 

LLC  Procter   Gamble Novomoskovsk   Russia 

LLC  Procter   Gamble Services   Russia 

LLC  Procter   Gamble   Russia 

Londa GmbH  Germany 

Londa Kosmetika SAO  Russia 

Londa Rothenkirchen Produktions G  Germany 

Malabar (HK) Corporation Limited  Hong Kong 

Marcosma Distribuidora de Cosm ti  Brazil 

Marcvenca Inversiones, C.A.  Venezuela 

Max Factor   Co. (U.K.) Ltd.  Bermuda 

Max Factor   Co.  Delaware 

Merveille S.A.  Switzerland 

Metropolitan Cosmetics GmbH  Germany 

Metropolitan Cosmetics Pte. Ltd.  Singapore 

Midway Holdings Ltd.  Cayman Islands 

Millstone Coffee, Inc.  Washington 

Mining Consultants (India) Private Ltd.  India 

Mir Kosmetiki  Russia 

Modern Hairdressing Supplies Pty  South Africa 

Modern Holdings (Pty) Ltd.  South Africa 

Modern Industrial Products FZE  United Arab Emirates 

Modern Industries Company   Dammam  Saudi Arabia 

Modern Industries Company   Jeddah  Saudi Arabia 

Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name

EXHIBIT (21)

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Modern Products Company   Jeddah  Saudi Arabia 

Muelhens GmbH   Co. KG  Germany 

Neoblanc-Produtos de Higiene e Limpeza Lda.  Portugal 

Nexus Mercantile Private Ltd.  India 

Noon-in-China, LLC  Delaware 

North Carolina Pet Imaging, LLC  Ohio 

Noxell Corporation  Maryland 

Olay LLC  Puerto Rico 

Ondabel S.A.  Argentina 

Ondal France E.u.r.l.  France 

Ondal USA, Inc.  Delaware 

Ondelle S.A.(Pty) Ltd.  South Africa 

OOO  Capella   Russia 

OOO  P G Prestige Products   Russia 

OOO  Procter   Gamble Distributorskaya Compania   Russia 

OOO  Russwell   Russia 

OOO P G Distribution Co.  Russia 

Oral-B (Shanghai) Ltd.  China 

Oral-B Laboratories Dublin LLC  Delaware 

Oral-B Laboratories International LL C Delaware 

Oral-B Laboratories Islands Ltd.  Cayman Islands 

Oral-B Laboratories Ltd.  U.K. 

Oral-B Laboratories Newbridge LLC  Delaware 

Oral-B Laboratories  Delaware 

P   G Prestige Beaut  GmbH  Germany 

P G Bath Luxuries Ltd.  U.K. 

P G Holding B.V.  Netherlands 

P G Holding Company S.R.L.  Argentina 

P G Indochina  Vietnam 

P G Industrial Peru S.R.L.  Peru 

P G Inversiones S.A.  Argentina 

P G Investments Limited  Costa Rica 

P G Israel Enterprise 2005 Ltd.  Israel 

P G Israel M.D.O. Ltd.  Israel 

P G K.K.  Japan 

P G Kobe Yugen Kaisha  Japan 

P G Northeast Asia Pte. Ltd.  Singapore 

P G Prestige Beaute S.A.R.L.  Switzerland 

P G Prestige Products A/S  Denmark 

P G Prestige Products AG  Switzerland 

Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name

EXHIBIT (21)

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

P G Prestige Products B.V.  Netherlands 

P G Prestige Products GmbH  Austria 

P G Prestige Products GmbH  Germany 

P G Prestige Products Ltd.  U.K. 

P G Prestige Products N.V.  Belgium 

P G Prestige Products S.A.S.  France 

P G Prestige Products, Inc.  Connecticut 

P G Servicios S.A.  Argentina 

P G South African Trading (Pty.) Ltd.  South Africa 

P G-Clairol, Inc.  Delaware 

Pacific Beauty Care Pte. Ltd.  Singapore 

PADOS Grundst cks-Vermietungsgese  Germany 

Palo Co. Ltd.  Japan 

Papierhygiene GmbH  Germany 

Parfums Rochas S.A.S.  France 

Parkfin  U.K. 

Phase II Holdings Corporation  Philippines 

PL Battery BVBA  Belgium 

PPProducts SARL  Switzerland 

PPS Hairwear Australia Pty. Ltd.  Australia 

Procter   Gamble (Chengdu) Ltd.  China 

Procter   Gamble (China) Ltd.  China 

Procter   Gamble (East Africa) Limited  Kenya 

Procter   Gamble (Egypt) Manufacturing Company  Egypt 

Procter   Gamble (Enterprise Fund) Limited  U.K. 

Procter   Gamble (Guangzhou) Ltd.  China 

Procter   Gamble (Health   Beauty Care) Limited  U.K. 

Procter   Gamble (L CP) Limited  U.K. 

Procter   Gamble (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd  Malaysia 

Procter   Gamble (Manufacturing) Ireland Limited  Ireland 

Procter   Gamble (NBD) Pty. Ltd.  Australia 

Procter   Gamble (Shanghai) International Trade Company Ltd.  China 

Procter   Gamble (Vietnam) Ltd.  Vietnam 

Procter   Gamble (Yemen) Ltd.  Yemen 

Procter   Gamble Acquisition GmbH  Germany 

Procter   Gamble Albania Ltd.  Albania 

Procter   Gamble Algeria EURL  Algeria 

Procter   Gamble Amazon Holding B.V.  Netherlands 

Procter   Gamble Amiens S.A.S.  France 

Procter   Gamble Argentina Sociedad Colectiva  Argentina 

Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name

EXHIBIT (21)

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Procter   Gamble Asia Holding B.V.  Netherlands 

Procter   Gamble Asia Pte. Ltd.  Singapore 

Procter   Gamble Australia Holding, LLC  Ohio 

Procter   Gamble Australia Proprietary Limited  Australia 

Procter   Gamble Austria GmbH  Austria 

Procter   Gamble Azerbaijan Services LLC A38  Azerbaijan 

Procter   Gamble Bangladesh Private Ltd.  Bangladesh 

Procter   Gamble Belize Ltda.  Belize 

Procter   Gamble Blois S.A.S.  France 

Procter   Gamble Bolivia S.R.L.  Bolivia 

Procter   Gamble Braun de Mexico Holding, LLC  Ohio 

Procter   Gamble Brazil Holdings B.V.  Netherlands 

Procter   Gamble Bulgaria EOOD  Bulgaria 

Procter   Gamble Business Services Canada Company  Canada 

Procter   Gamble Canada Holding B.V.  Netherlands 

Procter   Gamble Central   Eastern Europe GmbH  Germany 

Procter   Gamble Chemical Services Pte. Ltd.  Singapore 

Procter   Gamble Chile Holding Ltda.  Chile 

Procter   Gamble Chile, Inc.  Ohio 

Procter   Gamble Colombia Ltda.  Colombia 

Procter   Gamble Comercial Limitada  Chile 

Procter   Gamble Commercial de Cuba, S.A.  Cuba 

Procter   Gamble Commercial LLC  Puerto Rico 

Procter   Gamble Czech Holding B.V.  Netherlands 

Procter   Gamble Czech Republic s.r.o.A492  Czech Republic 

Procter   Gamble d.o.o. za trgovinu  Croatia 

Procter   Gamble Danmark ApS  Denmark 

Procter   Gamble de Nicaragua y Compania Ltda.  Nicaragua 

Procter   Gamble de Venezuela, S.C.A.  Venezuela 

Procter   Gamble de Venezuela, S.R.L.  Venezuela 

Procter   Gamble Detergent (Beijing) Ltd.  China 

Procter   Gamble Development Company A.G.  Switzerland 

Procter   Gamble Distributing (HK) Limited  Hong Kong 

Procter   Gamble Distributing (Philippines) Inc.  Philippines 

Procter   Gamble Distributing New Zealand  New Zealand 

Procter   Gamble Distribution Company (Europe) BVBA  Belgium 

Procter   Gamble Distribution S.R.L.  Romania 

Procter   Gamble do Brasil S/A  Brazil 

Procter   Gamble do Brazil, LLC  Delaware 

Procter   Gamble do Nordeste S/A  Brazil 

Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name

EXHIBIT (21)

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Procter   Gamble DS Polska Spolka z.o.o.  Poland 

Procter   Gamble Eastern Europe, LLC  Ohio 

Procter   Gamble Ecuador Cia. Ltda.  Ecuador 

Procter   Gamble Egypt Distribution  Egypt 

Procter   Gamble Egypt Holding  Egypt 

Procter   Gamble Egypt Supplies  Egypt 

Procter   Gamble Egypt  Egypt 

Procter   Gamble Energy Company LLC  Ohio 

Procter   Gamble Espana S.A.  Spain 

Procter   Gamble Estonia Ltd.  Estonia 

Procter   Gamble Eurocor N.V.  Belgium 

Procter   Gamble Europe N.V.  Belgium 

Procter   Gamble Europe SA  Switzerland 

Procter   Gamble European Supply Company BVBA  Belgium 

Procter   Gamble Export Operations SARL  Switzerland 

Procter   Gamble Export-FZE  United Arab Emirates 

Procter   Gamble Exports, S. de R.L.  Panama 

Procter   Gamble Far East, Inc.  Ohio 

Procter   Gamble Finance (Canada) Limited Partnership  Canada 

Procter   Gamble Finance (U.K.) Ltd.  U.K. 

Procter   Gamble Financial Services Holding Sarl  Luxembourg 

Procter   Gamble Financial Services Ltd.  Ireland 

Procter   Gamble Finland OY  Finland 

Procter   Gamble Food Products SARL  Switzerland 

Procter   Gamble France S.A.S.  France 

Procter   Gamble FSC (Barbados) Inc.  Barbados 

Procter   Gamble Ghana, Ltd.  Ghana 

Procter   Gamble Global Holdings Ltd.  Bermuda 

Procter   Gamble GmbH  Germany 

Procter   Gamble Grundstucks-und Vermogensverwaltungs GmbH   Co. KG  Germany 

Procter   Gamble Gulf FZE  United Arab Emirates 

Procter   Gamble Hair Care, LLC  Delaware 

Procter   Gamble Health and Beauty Care-Europe Limited  U.K. 

Procter   Gamble Hellas Ltd.  Greece 

Procter   Gamble Higiene e Cosmeticos Limitada  Brazil 

Procter   Gamble Holding (HK) Limited  Hong Kong 

Procter   Gamble Holding (Thailand) Limited  Thailand 

Procter   Gamble Holding France S.A.S.  France 

Procter   Gamble Holding GmbH  Germany 

Procter   Gamble Holding S.r.l.  Italy 

Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name

EXHIBIT (21)

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Procter   Gamble Holdings (U.K.) Ltd.  U.K. 

Procter   Gamble Holdings Limited  Ireland 

Procter   Gamble Holdings Singapore Pte. Ltd.  Singapore 

Procter   Gamble Home Products Limited  India 

Procter   Gamble Hong Kong Limited  Hong Kong 

Procter   Gamble Hungary Wholesale Trading Partnership (KKT)  Hungary 

Procter   Gamble Hygiene   Health Care Limited  India 

Procter   Gamble Inc.  Canada 

Procter   Gamble India Holdings B.V.  Netherlands 

Procter   Gamble India Holdings, Inc.  Ohio 

Procter   Gamble Industrial Colombia Ltda.  Colombia 

Procter   Gamble Industrial de Guatemala, S.A.  Guatemala 

Procter   Gamble Industrial e Comercial Ltda.  Brazil 

Procter   Gamble Industrial S.C.A.  Venezuela 

Procter   Gamble Interamericas de Costa Rica, Limitada  Costa Rica 

Procter   Gamble Interamericas de El Salvador, Limitada de Capital Variable  El Salvador 

Procter   Gamble Interamericas de Guatemala, Limitada  Guatemala 

Procter   Gamble Interamericas de Honduras, S. de R.L.  Honduras 

Procter   Gamble Interamericas de Panama, S. de R.L.  Panama 

Procter   Gamble International Finance Funding General Management S.a.r.l.  Luxembourg 

Procter   Gamble International Funding SCA  Luxembourg 

Procter   Gamble International Operations Pte. Ltd.  Singapore 

Procter   Gamble International Operations S.A.  Switzerland 

Procter   Gamble International S.a.r.l.  Luxembourg 

Procter   Gamble Investment Company (UK) Ltd.  U.K. 

Procter   Gamble Investment GmbH  Germany 

Procter   Gamble Investments Limited  Ireland 

Procter   Gamble Ireland Limited  Ireland 

Procter   Gamble Italia, S.p.A.  Italy 

Procter   Gamble Jamaica Ltd.  Jamaica 

Procter   Gamble Japan K.K.  Japan 

Procter   Gamble Kazakhstan LLP  Kazakhstan 

Procter   Gamble Korea IE, Co.  Korea 

Procter   Gamble Korea Inc.  Korea 

Procter   Gamble Korea S D Co.  Korea 

Procter   Gamble Latin America Holding B.V.  Netherlands 

Procter   Gamble Leasing LLC  Ohio 

Procter   Gamble Levant S.A.L.  Lebanon 

Procter   Gamble Limitada  Chile 

Procter   Gamble Limited Liability Company  Uzbekistan 

Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name

EXHIBIT (21)

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Procter   Gamble Limited  U.K. 

Procter   Gamble Luxembourg Finance S.a.r.l.  Luxembourg 

Procter   Gamble Luxembourg Global S.a.r.l.  Luxembourg 

Procter   Gamble Manufactura, S. de R.L. de C.V.  Mexico 

Procter   Gamble Manufacturing (Thailand) Limited  Thailand 

Procter   Gamble Manufacturing (Tianjin) Co. Ltd.  China 

Procter   Gamble Manufacturing Belgium N.V.  Belgium 

Procter   Gamble Manufacturing GmbH  Germany 

Procter   Gamble Manufacturing SA  South Africa 

Procter   Gamble Manufacturing Ukraine  Ukraine 

Procter   Gamble Marketing   Commercial Activities d.o.o. Ljubljana  Slovenia 

Procter   Gamble Marketing and Services d.o.o.  Serbia and Montenegro 

Procter   Gamble Marketing DOOEL Skopje  Macedonia 

Procter   Gamble Marketing Latvia Ltd.  Latvia 

Procter   Gamble Marketing Romania SRL  Romania 

Procter   Gamble Maroc  Morocco 

Procter   Gamble Mataro, S.L.  Spain 

Procter   Gamble Materials Management Czech Republic s.r.o.  Czech Republic 

Procter   Gamble Materials Management Romania S.R.L.  Romania 

Procter   Gamble Max Factor Godo Kaisha  Japan 

Procter   Gamble Mexico Holding B.V.  Netherlands 

Procter   Gamble Moldova SRL  Moldova 

Procter   Gamble N.S. Holding Company  Canada 

Procter   Gamble Nederland B.V.  Netherlands 

Procter   Gamble Netherland Services B.V.  Netherlands 

Procter   Gamble Neuilly S.A.S.  France 

Procter   Gamble Nigeria Limited  Nigeria 

Procter   Gamble Nordic LLC  Ohio 

Procter   Gamble Norge AS  Norway 

Procter   Gamble NPD, Inc.  Ohio 

Procter   Gamble Operations Polska-Spolka z o.o.  Poland 

Procter   Gamble Orleans S.A.S.  France 

Procter   Gamble Overseas Canada B.V.  Netherlands 

Procter   Gamble Overseas India B.V.  Netherlands 

Procter   Gamble Overseas Ltd.  U.K. 

Procter   Gamble Pakistan (Private) Limited  Pakistan 

Procter   Gamble Peru S.R.L.  Peru 

Procter   Gamble Pet Care (Australia) Pty. Ltd.  Australia 

Procter   Gamble Pharmaceuticals  Germany 

Procter   Gamble Pharmaceuticals Canada, Inc.  Canada 

Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name

EXHIBIT (21)

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Procter   Gamble Pharmaceuticals France  France 

Procter   Gamble Pharmaceuticals Iberia, S.L.  Spain 

Procter   Gamble Pharmaceuticals Longjumeau S.A.S.  France 

Procter   Gamble Pharmaceuticals N.V.  Belgium 

Procter   Gamble Pharmaceuticals Nederland B.V.  Netherlands 

Procter   Gamble Pharmaceuticals Puerto Rico LLC  Puerto Rico 

Procter   Gamble Pharmaceuticals SARL  Switzerland 

Procter   Gamble Pharmaceuticals U.K. Limited  U.K. 

Procter   Gamble Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  Ohio 

Procter   Gamble Pharmaceuticals-Germany GmbH  Germany 

Procter   Gamble Philippines, Inc.  Philippines 

Procter   Gamble Platform, Inc.  Ohio 

Procter   Gamble Polska-Spolka z o.o  Poland 

Procter   Gamble Porto, Lda.  Portugal 

Procter   Gamble Portugal S.A.  Portugal 

Procter   Gamble Prestige Product  Portugal 

Procter   Gamble Prestige Products Polska-Spolka z o.o.  Poland 

Procter   Gamble Prestige Products S.A.  Portugal 

Procter   Gamble Prestige Products S.A.  Spain 

Procter   Gamble Product Supply (U.K.) Limited  U.K. 

Procter   Gamble Productions, Inc.  Ohio 

Procter   Gamble Quimica Ltda.  Brazil 

Procter   Gamble RHD, Inc.  Ohio 

Procter   Gamble RSC Regional Service Company Ltd.  Hungary 

Procter   Gamble S.r.l.  Italy 

Procter   Gamble Santiago Inversiones S.A.  Chile 

Procter   Gamble Satis ve Dagitim Ltd. Sti.  Turkey 

Procter   Gamble Senegal S.a.r.l.  Senegal 

Procter   Gamble Service GmbH  Germany 

Procter   Gamble Services (Switzerland) SA  Switzerland 

Procter   Gamble Services Company N.V.  Belgium 

Procter   Gamble Services LT  Lithuania 

Procter   Gamble Services Ltd.  Kenya 

Procter   Gamble Servicios Latinoamerica, S.C.A.  Venezuela 

Procter   Gamble Servicios Latinoamerica-1, S.R.L.  Venezuela 

Procter   Gamble Singapore Investment Pte. Ltd.  Singapore 

Procter   Gamble Singapore Pte. Ltd.  Singapore 

Procter   Gamble South Africa Proprietary Limited  South Africa 

Procter   Gamble South America Holding B.V.  Netherlands 

Procter   Gamble Sri Lanka Private Ltd.  Sri Lanka 

Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name

EXHIBIT (21)

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Procter   Gamble Sverige AB  Sweden 

Procter   Gamble Switzerland SARL  Switzerland 

Procter   Gamble Taiwan Limited  Taiwan 

Procter   Gamble Technical Centers Limited  U.K. 

Procter   Gamble Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd.  China 

Procter   Gamble Trading (Thailand) Limited  Thailand 

Procter   Gamble Trading International S.a.r.l.  Switzerland 

Procter   Gamble Trgovaeko Drustvo d.o.o. Sarajevo  Bosnia 

Procter   Gamble Tuketim Mallari Sanayii A.S.  Turkey 

Procter   Gamble U.K.  U.K. 

Procter   Gamble Ukraine  Ukraine 

Procter   Gamble Unternehmensbeteiligungs GmbH   Co. Operations oHG  Germany 

Procter   Gamble Verwaltungs GmbH  Germany 

Procter   Gamble, Spol. s.r.o. (Ltd.)  Slovak Republic 

Procter   Gamble-Rakona s.r.o.  Czech Republic 

Productos Cosm ticos S.L.  Spain 

Productos Sanitarios Sociedad Colectiva  Argentina 

Professional Care Logistics, S.L.  Spain 

Progam Realty   Development Corporation  Philippines 

Promotora de Bienes y Valores, S. de R.L. de C.V.  Mexico 

PT Cosmopolitan Cosmetic  Indonesia 

PT Kosmindo  Indonesia 

PT Mawar Sejati  Indonesia 

PT Procter   Gamble Home Products Indonesia  Indonesia 

PT Procter   Gamble Indonesia  Indonesia 

PUR Water Purification Products, Inc.  Ohio 

Redmond Products, Inc.  Minnesota 

Richardson-Vicks do Brasil Quimica e Farmac utica Ltda  Brazil 

Richardson-Vicks Real Estate Inc.  Ohio 

Riverfront Music Publishing Co., Inc.  Ohio 

Rosemount Corporation  Delaware 

RPI Management, Inc.  Nevada 

R-V Chemicals Holdings Ltd.  Ireland 

S.C. Detergenti S.A.  Romania 

S.C. Wella Romania S.R.L.  Romania 

S.P.F. Beaut  S.A.S.  France 

Salon Debut  Russia 

Salon Service Genova SrL  Italy 

San Francisco Pet Imaging, Inc.  California 

San Francisco Pet Imaging, LLC  Ohio 

Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name

EXHIBIT (21)

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Scannon GmbH  Germany 

Scannon S.A.  France 

Scannon S.A.S.  France 

Sebastian Europe GmbH  Germany 

Sebastian International, Inc.  California 

Series Acquisition B.V.  Netherlands 

Series Overseas Investment Ltd.  Bermuda 

Shulton (Great Britain) Ltd.  U.K. 

Shulton, Inc.  New Jersey 

Sigma Cosmetica International S.A  Uruguay 

Societe Immobiliere Les Colombettes, S.A.  Switzerland 

Star Parfums GmbH  Germany 

Star Parfums Verwaltungs GmbH  Germany 

Sulcosma Distribuidora de Cosm ti  Brazil 

Surfac S. R. Ltda.  Peru 

Sycamore Productions, Inc.  Ohio 

Tambrands Inc.  Delaware 

Tambrands Industria e Comercia Ltda.  Brazil 

Tambrands Ireland Limited  Ireland 

Tambrands Limited  U.K. 

Tambrands Ukraine Ltd.  Ukraine 

Tefa Holdings (Pty) Ltd.  South Africa 

Temple Trees Impex   Investment Private Limited  India 

The Dover Wipes Company  Ohio 

The Folger Coffee Company  Ohio 

The Folgers Coffee Company  Delaware 

The Folgers Coffee Distributing Company  Delaware 

The Gillette Company  Delaware 

The Iams Company  Ohio 

The Malabar Company  Delaware 

The Procter   Gamble Company of South Africa (Proprietary) Limited  South Africa 

The Procter   Gamble Distributing LLC  Delaware 

The Procter   Gamble GBS Company  Ohio 

The Procter   Gamble Global Finance Company  Ohio 

The Procter   Gamble International Insurance Company, Limited  Ireland 

The Procter   Gamble Manufacturing Company  Ohio 

The Procter   Gamble Paper Products Company  Ohio 

The Procter   Gamble U.S. Business Services Company  Ohio 

The Wella Corporation  Delaware 

Thomas Hedley   Co. Limited  U.K. 

Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name

EXHIBIT (21)

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Transcosmetics Holdings Sdn. Bhd.  Malaysia 

Universal Beauty Supply Corp.  Puerto Rico 

US CD LLC  Delaware 

Valbonne S.A.  Switzerland 

Vick International Corporation  Delaware 

Vidal Sassoon (Shanghai) Academy  China 

Vidal Sassoon Co.  Ohio 

WEBA Betriebsrenten-Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH  Germany 

Wella (Ireland) Ltd.  Ireland 

Wella (U.K.) Holdings Ltd.  Great Brita 

Wella (U.K.) Ltd.  U.K. 

Wella AB  Sweden 

Wella AG  Germany 

Wella Beteiligungen GmbH  Switzerland 

Wella Canada, Inc.  Canada 

Wella Chile S.A.  Chile 

Wella Cosmetics China Ltd. Co.  China 

Wella CZ s.r.o.  Czech Republic 

Wella Danmark A/S  Denmark 

Wella de M xico, S.de R.L. de C.V  Mexico 

Wella de Mexico  Mexico 

Wella France S.A.S.  France 

Wella Hellas Ltd.  Greece 

Wella Hongkong Limited  Hong Kong 

Wella India Haircosmetics Private  India 

Wella Intercosmetic GmbH  Germany 

Wella Interkosmetik GmbH  Austria 

Wella Japan Co. Ltd.  Japan 

Wella Laboratories, Inc.  Delaware 

Wella Magyarorszag Kft.  Hungary 

Wella Management GmbH  Germany 

Wella Manufacturing GmbH  Germany 

Wella Manufacturing of Virginia, Inc.  Virginia 

Wella New Zealand  New Zealand 

Wella Nordamerika Beteiligungen GmbH  Germany 

Wella Paraguay S.A.  Paraguay 

Wella Personal Care of North America, Inc.  Delaware 

Wella Philippines Inc.  Philippines 

Wella Polska Spolka z o.o.  Poland 

Wella Portugal Sociedade Unipesso  Portugal 

Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name

EXHIBIT (21)

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Wella Salon Einrichtungen GmbH  Germany 

Wella Service GmbH  Germany 

Wella Slovensko s.r.o.  Slovak Republic 

Wella Taiwan Co. Ltd.  Taiwan 

Wella Trading (Thailand) Ltd.  Thailand 

Wella Ukraina  Ukraine 

ZAO  Petersburg Products International zao   Russia 

Zogi SRL  Italy 

Zooth de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.  Mexico 

Zooth, Inc.  Texas 

Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 13
 l32996aexv23.htm
 EX-23

EX-23 

EXHIBIT (23)

Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm s Consent

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following documents of our reports dated August
12, 2008, relating to the consolidated financial statements of The Procter   Gamble Company and
subsidiaries (which report expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph
relating to the adoption of (1) FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,  and (2) SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting
for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87,
88, 106, and 132 (R) ) and the effectiveness of The Procter   Gamble Company and subsidiaries 
internal control over financial reporting, incorporated by reference in the Annual Report on Form
10-K of The Procter   Gamble Company and subsidiaries for the year ended June 30, 2008.

DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP

Deloitte   Touche LLP

Cincinnati, Ohio 
August 28, 2008

</EX-23>

<EX-31>
 14
 l32996aexv31.htm
 EX-31

EX-31 

EXHIBIT (31)

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications 

I, A.G. Lafley, certify that:

(1) 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Procter   Gamble Company; 

(2) 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report; 

(3) 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report; 

(4) 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

(5) 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s 

auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely
to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting. 

A.G. LAFLEY

(A.G. Lafley)

Chairman of the Board
 
and Chief Executive Officer

August 28, 2008

Date

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications 

I, Clayton C. Daley, Jr., certify that:

(1) 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Procter   Gamble Company; 

(2) 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report; 

(3) 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report; 

(4) 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

(5) 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s 

auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely
to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting. 

CLAYTON C. DALEY, JR.

(Clayton C. Daley, Jr.)

Chief Financial Officer

August 28, 2008  

Date

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 15
 l32996aexv32.htm
 EX-32

EX-32 

EXHIBIT (32)

Section 1350 Certifications

Section 1350 Certifications 

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002, the undersigned officer of The Procter   Gamble Company (the  Company ) certifies to his
knowledge that:

(1) 
       
     The Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended June 30, 2008 fully
complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934; and 

(2) 
       
     The information contained in that Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

A.G. LAFLEY

(A.G. Lafley)

Chairman of the Board
 
and Chief Executive Officer

August 28, 2008  

Date

Section 1350 Certifications 

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002, the undersigned officer of The Procter   Gamble Company (the  Company ) certifies to his
knowledge that:

(1) 
       
     The Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended June 30, 2008 fully
complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934; and 

(2) 
       
     The information contained in that Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

CLAYTON C. DALEY, JR.

(Clayton C. Daley, Jr.)

Chief Financial Officer

August 28, 2008  

Date

</EX-32>

<EX-99.1>
 16
 l32996aexv99w1.htm
 EX-99.1

EX-99.1 

EXHIBIT (99-1)

Summary of Directors and Officers Insurance Program

P G Directors   Officers Insurance Program Summary  

This summary states the general effect of the Company s Directors   Officers Insurance Program for
the policy period effective for June 30, 2008 to June 30, 2009.

Note-  Side A coverage  refers to Directors   Officers ( D O ) insurance coverage that provides
direct coverage to insured directors and officers for claims for which the insured company is
unable or unwilling to indemnify the insured individuals. For example, the law in many states
prohibits a company from indemnifying its directors or officers for shareholder derivative claims.
 Side B coverage  refers to D O coverage that indemnifies the insured company or corporation,
typically in excess of a deductible, for sums that the company or corporation spends to indemnify
insured directors or officers for allegedly wrongful acts covered by the terms of D O insurance.
 Side C coverage  refers to direct entity coverage provided to the insured company or corporation
itself when a claim is brought against the company or corporation itself for allegedly wrongful
acts covered by the terms of D O insurance.

</EX-99.1>

