<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110810_10-K_edgar_data_80424_0000080424-11-000014_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>30517793</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>346556</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>16335066</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>5476674</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>6183699</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>1855113</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>82</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>15</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000080424-11-000014.hdr.sgml : 20110810
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110810065353
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000080424-11-000014
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		65
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20110630
FILED AS OF DATE:		20110810
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110810

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PROCTER & GAMBLE CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000080424
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SOAP, DETERGENT, CLEANING PREPARATIONS, PERFUMES, COSMETICS [2840]
		IRS NUMBER:				310411980
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			OH
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0421

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-00434
		FILM NUMBER:		111022566

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE PROCTER & GAMBLE PLAZA
		CITY:			CINCINNATI
		STATE:			OH
		ZIP:			45202
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5139831100

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE PROCTER & GAMBLE PLAZA
		CITY:			CINCINNATI
		STATE:			OH
		ZIP:			45202

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000080424-11-000014.txt : 20110810

10-K
 1
 fy1110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT

FY 11 10-K Shell 

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY 
  AND SUBSIDIARIES 

_________________________________________________ 

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K 
  TO THE 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  FOR THE 
  YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2011 

****************************************** 

(Mark one) 
  [x]        ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE 
  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
    
  For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2011 
    
  OR 
  [ ]        TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE 
  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
    
  For the transition period from     to  
    
  Commission File No. 1-434 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
    
                               Title of each class 
      
        Name of each exchange on which registered 
      Common Stock, without Par Value 
      
    New York Stock Exchange, NYSE Euronext-Paris 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.Yes         No   o 
    
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.            Yes   o        No      
    
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months 
  (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.     Yes             No   o 
       
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).      Yes            No   o 
    
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation 
  S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, 
  in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this 
  Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.                
     
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).      
  Large accelerated filer              Accelerated filer    o      Non-accelerated filer    o 
  Smaller reporting company   o 
    
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).     Yes    o        No        
    
  The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates amounted to $181 billion     on December 31, 2010. 
    
  There were 2,747,768,202 shares of Common Stock outstanding as of July 31, 2011.   
    
  Documents Incorporated by Reference 
  Portions of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011, (2011 Annual Report) are incorporated by reference into Part I, Part II and Part IV of this report to the extent described herein. 
    
  Portions of the Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders which will be filed within one hundred and twenty days of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011, (2011 Proxy Statement) are incorporated by reference into Part III of this report to the extent described herein. 
    
    1 

PART I 
  Item 1.   Business  . 
  Additional information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD A), which appears on pages 33-51; Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, which appears on pages 56-58; and Note 11, Segment Information, which appears on pages 71-72 of the 2011 Annual Report. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms the "Company," "P G," "we," "our" or "us" as used herein refers to The Procter   Gamble Company (the registrant) and its subsidiaries. 
  The Procter   Gamble Company is focused on providing branded consumer packaged goods of superior quality and value to improve the lives of the world's consumers. The Company was incorporated in Ohio in 1905, having been built from a business founded in 1837 by William Procter and James Gamble. Today, we market our products in more than 180 countries. 
  Throughout this Form 10-K, we incorporate by reference information from other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
  The Company's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments thereto, are filed electronically with the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains these reports at: http://www.sec.gov. You can also access these reports through links from our website at: www.pg.com/investors/sectionmain.shtml. 
  Copies of these reports are also available, without charge, by contacting The Procter   Gamble Company, Shareholder Services Department, P.O. Box 5572, Cincinnati, Ohio 45201-5572. 
  Financial Information about Segments 
  As of June 30, 2011, the Company was organized into two Global Business Units (GBU's): Beauty and Grooming and Household Care. We had six reportable segments under U.S. GAAP: Beauty; Grooming; Health Care; Snacks and Pet Care; Fabric Care and Home Care; and Baby Care and Family Care. Many of the factors necessary for an understanding of these businesses are similar. Operating margins of the individual businesses vary due to the nature of materials and processes used to manufacture the products, the capital intensity of the businesses and differences in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales. Net sales growth by business is also expected to vary slightly due to the underlying growth of the markets of each business and products. While none of our reportable segments are highly seasonal, components within certain of our reportable segments, such as Batteries (Fabric Care and Home Care), Appliances (Grooming) and Prestige Fragrances (Beauty) are seasonal. In addition, anticipation or occurrence of natural disasters, such as hurricanes, can drive unusually high demand for batteries. 
  Additional information about our businesses can be found in MD A and Note 11, Segment Information, which appear on pages 33-51 and 71-72, respectively, of the 2011 Annual Report. 
  Narrative Description of Business 
  Business Model  . Our business model relies on the continued growth and success of existing brands and products, as well as the creation of new products. The markets and industry segments in which we offer our products are highly competitive. Many of the product segments in which we compete are differentiated by price (referred to as super-premium, premium, mid-tier value and low-tier economy products). Generally speaking, we compete with super-premium, premium and mid-tier value products. Our products are sold in more than 180 countries around the world primarily through mass merchandisers, grocery stores, membership club stores, drug stores and in "high-frequency stores," the neighborhood stores which serve many consumers in developing markets. We work collaboratively with our customers to improve the in-store presence of our products and win the "first moment of truth"-when a consumer is shopping in the store. We must also win the "second moment of truth"-when a consumer uses the product, evaluates how well it met his or her expectations and whether it was a good value. We believe we must continue to provide new, innovative products and branding to the consumer in order to grow our business. Research and product development activities, designed to enable sustained organic growth, continued to carry a high priority during the past fiscal year. While many of the benefits from these efforts will not be realized until future years, we believe these activities demonstrate our commitment to future growth. 
  Key Product Categories  . In 2011, two product categories accounted for 10% or more of consolidated net sales. The laundry category constituted approximately 16% of net sales for fiscal year 2011 and 17% in 2010 and 2009. The diaper category constituted approximately 11% of net sales for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
       
    2 

Key Customers  . Our customers include mass merchandisers, grocery stores, membership club stores, drug stores and high-frequency stores. Sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates represent approximately 15% of our total revenue in 2011 and 16% of total revenue in 2010 and 2009. No other customer represents more than 10% of our net sales. Our top ten customers account for approximately 32% of our total unit volume in 2011 and 2010, compared to 30% of total unit volume in in 2009. The nature of our business results in no material backlog orders or contracts with the government. We believe our practices related to working capital items for customers and suppliers are consistent with the industry segments in which we compete. 
  Sources and Availability of Materials  . Almost all of the raw and packaging materials used by the Company are purchased from others, some of whom are single-source suppliers. We produce raw materials, primarily chemicals, for further use in the manufacturing process. In addition, fuel, natural gas and derivative products are important commodities used in our plants, products and in the trucks used to deliver our products to customers. The prices we pay for materials and other commodities are subject to fluctuation. When prices for these items change, we may or may not pass on the change to our customers, depending on the magnitude and expected duration of the change. The Company purchases a substantial variety of other raw and packaging materials, no one of which is material to our business taken as a whole. 
  Trademarks and Patents  . We own or have licenses under patents and registered trademarks which are used in connection with our activity in all businesses. Some of these patents or licenses cover significant product formulation and processes used to manufacture our products. The trademarks are important to the overall marketing and branding of our products. All major products and trademarks in each business are registered. In part, our success can be attributed to the existence and continued protection of these trademarks, patents and licenses. 
  Competitive Condition  . The markets in which our products are sold are highly competitive. Our products compete against similar products of many large and small companies, including well-known global competitors. In many of the markets and industry segments in which we sell our products, we compete against other branded products as well as retailers' private-label brands. We are well positioned in the industry segments and markets in which we operate-often holding a leadership or significant market share position. We market our products with advertising, promotions and other vehicles to build awareness of our brands in conjunction with an extensive sales force. We believe this combination provides the most efficient method of marketing for these types of products. Product quality, performance, value and packaging are also important competitive factors. 
  Research and Development Expenditures  . Research and development expenditures enable us to develop technologies and obtain patents across all categories in order to meet the needs and improve the lives of our consumers. Total research and development expenses were $2,001 million in 2011, $1,950 million in 2010 and $1,864 million in 2009. 
    
  Expenditures for Environmental Compliance  . Expenditures for compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations are fairly consistent from year to year and are not material to the Company. No material change is expected in fiscal year 2012. 
  Employees  . Total number of employees is an estimate of total company employees excluding interns, co-ops and employees of joint ventures. Historical numbers include employees of discontinued operations. 

Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations 
  Net sales in the United States account for approximately 37% of total net sales. No other individual country had net sales exceeding 10% of total net sales. Operations outside the United States are generally characterized by the same conditions discussed in the description of the business above and may also be affected by additional factors including changing currency values, different rates of inflation, economic growth and political and economic uncertainties and disruptions. Our sales by geography for the fiscal years ended June 30 were as follows: 

(1) 
       CEEMEA includes Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa 
       
  Net sales and assets in the United States and internationally were as follows (in billions): 

3 

Development of the Business 
  The discussion below provides insight to the general development of our business since the beginning of fiscal year 2011. During fiscal year 2011, we did not have a material acquisition or disposition of assets. 
  Global Business Units.   Effective February 2011, P G s business is organized into two product-based segments called Global Business Units ( GBUs ): Beauty and Grooming and Household Care. These GBUs contain a total of six reportable segments: Beauty; Grooming; Health Care; Snacks and Pet Care; Fabric Care and Home Care; and Baby Care and Family Care.  
  Item 1A.   Risk Factors. 
  We discuss our expectations regarding future performance, events and outcomes, such as our business outlook and objectives in this Form 10-K, the Annual Report to Shareholders, quarterly reports, press releases and other written and oral communications. All statements, except for historical and present factual information, are  forward-looking statements  and are based on financial data and business plans available only as of the time the statements are made, which may become out of date or incomplete. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events, or other factors. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and investors must recognize that events could significantly differ from our expectations.  
  The following discussion of  risk factors  identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance. This information should be read in conjunction with MD A and the consolidated financial statements and related notes incorporated by reference into this report. The following discussion of risks is not all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our expectations. These factors could cause our future results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements and from historical trends.  
  A material change in consumer demand for our products could have a significant impact on our business.  
  We are a consumer products company and rely on continued global demand for our brands and products. To achieve business goals, we must develop and sell products that appeal to consumers. This is dependent on a number of factors including our ability to develop effective sales, advertising and marketing programs. We expect to achieve our financial targets, in part, by shifting our portfolio towards faster growing, higher margin businesses. If demand and growth rates fall substantially below expected levels or our market share declines significantly in these businesses, our results could be negatively impacted. This could occur due to unforeseen negative economic or political events or to changes in consumer trends and habits. In addition, our continued success is dependent on leading-edge innovation, with respect to both products and operations. This means we must be able to obtain patents that lead to the development of products that appeal to our consumers across the world.  
  The ability to achieve our business objectives is dependent on how well we can respond to our local and global competitors.  
  Across all of our categories, we compete against a wide variety of global and local competitors. As a result, there are ongoing competitive product and pricing pressures in the environments in which we operate, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins. To address these challenges, we must be able to successfully respond to competitive factors, including pricing, promotional incentives and trade terms, as well as technological advances and patents granted to competition.  
  Our businesses face cost pressures and risks inherent in global manufacturing which could affect our business results.  
  Our costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in commodity prices, raw materials, labor costs, foreign exchange and interest rates. Therefore, our success is dependent, in part, on our continued ability to manage these fluctuations through pricing actions, cost savings projects (including outsourcing projects), sourcing decisions and certain hedging transactions. In the manufacturing and general overhead areas, we need to maintain key manufacturing and supply arrangements, including any key sole supplier and sole manufacturing plant arrangements.  In addition, we are subject to risks inherent in global manufacturing, such as environmental events, labor disputes, disruption in logistics, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external factors over which we have no control.  While we have business continuity and contingency plans for key manufacturing sites and the supply of raw materials, significant disruption of manufacturing could interrupt product supply and, if not remedied, have an adverse impact on our business.  
  We face risks associated with significant international operations.  
  We conduct business across the globe with a significant portion of our sales outside the United States. As a result, we are subject to a number of risks, including, but not limited to, changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies, which may reduce the U.S. dollar value of revenues and earnings received and/or balances held by or invested in our foreign subsidiaries, as well as exchange controls and other limits on our ability to repatriate earnings from outside the U.S. that can increase our exposure. We have sizable businesses and maintain local currency cash balances in a number of foreign countries with exchange controls, including, but not limited to, Venezuela, China and India. Our results of operations and/or financial condition could be adversely impacted if we are unable to successfully manage these risks in an increasingly volatile environment. Further, we expect to achieve our financial targets, in part, by achieving disproportionate growth in developing regions. Should growth rates or our market share fall substantially below expected levels in these regions, our results could be negatively impacted. In addition, economic changes, terrorist activity and political unrest may result in business interruption, inflation, deflation or decreased demand for our products. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to manage continued global political and/or economic uncertainty, especially in our significant geographical markets, as well as any political or economic disruption due to terrorist and other hostile activities.  
    4 

If the reputation of the Company or one or more of our leading brands erodes significantly, it could have a material impact on our financial results.  
  The Company's reputation is the foundation of our relationships with key stakeholders and other constituencies. If we are unable to effectively manage real or perceived issues, which could negatively impact sentiments toward the Company, our ability to operate freely could be impaired and our financial results could suffer. Our financial success is directly dependent on the success of our brands, particularly our billion-dollar brands. The success of these brands can suffer if our marketing plans or product initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand's image or its ability to attract consumers, or we are unable to maintain trademark protection. Further, our results could be negatively impacted if one of our leading brands suffers a substantial impediment to its reputation due to real or perceived quality issues or the distribution and sale of counterfeit products.  
  Our ability to successfully adapt to ongoing organizational change could impact our business results.  
  We have executed a number of significant business and organizational changes including acquisitions, divestitures and workforce optimization projects to support our growth strategies. We expect these types of changes to continue for the foreseeable future. Successfully managing these changes, including retention of key employees, is critical to our business success. In addition, we are generally a build-from-within company, and our success is dependent on identifying, developing and retaining key employees to provide uninterrupted leadership and direction for our business. This includes developing organization capabilities in key growth markets where the depth of skilled employees is limited and competition for these resources is intense. Further, business and organizational changes may result in more reliance on third parties for various services, and that reliance may increase reputational, operational and compliance risks, including the risk of corruption. Finally, our financial targets assume a consistent level of productivity improvement. If we are unable to deliver expected productivity improvements, while continuing to invest in business growth, our financial results could be adversely impacted.  
  Our ability to successfully manage ongoing acquisition and divestiture activities could impact our business results.  
  As a company that manages a portfolio of consumer brands, our ongoing business model involves a certain level of acquisition and divestiture activities. We must be able to successfully manage the impacts of these activities, while at the same time delivering against base business objectives. Specifically, our financial results could be adversely impacted if: 1) we are not able to deliver the expected cost and growth synergies associated with our acquisitions, 2) changes in the cash flows or other market-based assumptions cause the value of acquired assets to fall below book value or 3) we are unable to offset the dilutive impacts from the loss of revenue streams associated with divested brands.  
  Our business is subject to legislation, regulation and enforcement in the U.S. and abroad.  
  Changes in laws, regulations and the related interpretations and increased enforcement actions may alter the environment in which we do business. This includes changes in competition, product-related, privacy and environmental laws, including actions in response to global climate change concerns, increased enforcement as well as changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements and enforcement penalties. Accordingly, our ability to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters (including product liability, patent, and other intellectual property matters), and to resolve pending legal matters without significant liability may materially impact our results of operations and financial position. Furthermore, the competition law and antitrust investigations described in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K, may result in fines or costs in excess of the amounts accrued to date that could materially impact our results of operations and financial position. In addition, as a U.S. based multinational company we are also subject to tax regulations in the U.S. and multiple foreign jurisdictions, some of which are interdependent. For example, certain income that is earned and taxed in countries outside the U.S. is not taxed in the U.S., provided those earnings are indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. If these or other tax regulations should change, our financial results could be impacted.  
  A material change in customer relationships or in customer demand for our products could have a significant impact on our business.  
  Our success is dependent on our ability to successfully manage relationships with our retail trade customers. This includes our ability to offer trade terms that are acceptable to our customers and are aligned with our pricing and profitability targets. Our business could suffer if we cannot reach agreement with a key customer based on our trade terms and principles. Further, retail trade consolidation could create significant cost and margin pressure and lead to more complex work across broader geographic boundaries for both us and key retailers. This can be particularly difficult when major customers are addressing local trade pressures or local law and regulation changes. In addition, our business would be negatively impacted if a key customer were to significantly reduce the range or inventory level of our products.  
  We face risks related to changes in the global economic environment.  
  Our business is impacted by global economic conditions, which are increasingly volatile. If the global economy experiences significant disruptions, our business could be negatively impacted by reduced demand for our products related to a slow-down in the general economy, supplier or customer disruptions resulting from tighter credit markets, temporary interruptions in our ability to conduct day-to-day transactions through our financial intermediaries involving the payment to or collection of funds from our customers, vendors and suppliers and/or liquidity issues resulting from an inability to access credit markets to obtain cash to support operations.  We could also be negatively impacted by an economic crisis in individual countries or regions, including sovereign risk related to a deterioration in the credit worthiness of or a default by local governments.  Such events could negatively impact our overall liquidity, as well as our ability to collect receipts due from governments, including refunds of value added taxes, and/or create significant credit risks relative to our local customers and depository institutions.    
  A failure of a key information technology system, process or site could have a material adverse impact on our business.  
  We rely extensively on information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-party service providers, in order to conduct business. These systems include, but are not limited to, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting materials to finished products, shipping product to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, providing data security, and other processes necessary to manage the business. If our systems are damaged or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events to power outages to security breaches, and our business continuity plans do not effectively compensate on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in our ability to manage operations which may adversely impact our results of operations and/or financial condition.  
    
    5 

Item 1B.   Unresolved Staff Comments. 
  None. 
  Item 2.   Properties. 
  In the U.S., we own and operate 36 manufacturing facilities located in 22 different states or territories. In addition, we own and operate 102 manufacturing facilities in 41 other countries. Many of the domestic and international facilities produce products for multiple businesses. Beauty products are manufactured at 39 of these locations; Grooming products at 17; Fabric Care and Home Care products at 52; Baby Care and Family Care products at 31; Snacks and Pet Care products at 11; and Health Care products at 35. Management believes that the Company's production facilities are adequate to support the business efficiently and that the properties and equipment have been well maintained. 
  Item 3.   Legal Proceedings. 
    
  The Company is subject, from time to time, to certain legal proceedings and claims arising out of our business, which cover a wide range of matters, including antitrust and trade regulation, product liability, advertising, contracts, environmental issues, patent and trademark matters, labor and employment matters and tax.  
  As previously reported, the Company has been subject to a number of investigations into potential competition law violations in Europe. Those that remain include investigations by national authorities in Belgium, France, Germany, Greece, and Romania. We believe that all of these matters involve a number of other consumer products companies and/or retail customers. Although non-monetary sanctions are not being sought in any of these matters, competition and antitrust law investigations often continue for several years and, if violations are found, can result in substantial fines.  
  The Company's policy is to comply with all laws and regulations, including all antitrust and competition laws, and to cooperate with investigations by relevant regulatory authorities, which the Company is doing. In response to the actions of the European Commission and national authorities, the Company launched its own internal investigations into potential violations of competition laws. The Company identified violations in certain European countries and appropriate actions were taken.  
  As a result of certain investigations that were previously disclosed, several authorities issued separate complaints alleging that the Company, along with several other companies, engaged in violations of competition laws in the past. During this fiscal year, the Company received final decisions from the Czech Republic, the European Commission, Italy, Spain and Switzerland, and the United Kingdom decided not to pursue a case against the Company.  The ultimate resolution of the remaining  matters listed above may result in fines or costs in excess of the amounts reserved that could materially impact our income statement and cash flows in the period in which they are accrued and paid, respectively. Please refer to the Company's Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Form 10-K for additional information.  
  In December 2008, the Company became aware of an investigation by Italian authorities into an environmental accident at the site of a contractor which provides services to one or more of the Company's European affiliates. The accident involved the explosion of certain pressurized cans and resulted in the death of one worker and serious injuries to another. Italian authorities have commenced a formal criminal proceeding regarding whether the Company's local affiliate and certain of its employees complied with Italian laws related to the proper classification and disposal of their products. Should they find that these entities violated the law, the Italian authorities could levy fines in excess of $100 thousand against the Company's European affiliate(s).  
    6 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 
  The names, ages and positions held by the executive officers of the Company on August 10, 2011, are: 

All of the Executive Officers named above, excluding Ms. Majoras, have been employed by the Company for more than five years. Ms. Majoras held the following positions within the Company during the past five years: Chief Legal Officer and Secretary (February 1, 2010 - present), Vice President and General Counsel (June 24, 2008 - January 31, 2010). Ms. Majoras was Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission from 2004 until joining the Company in 2008. 

7 

PART II 
    
  Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 
  ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 

(1 
    ) 
    The total number of shares purchased was 38,239,315 for the quarter. This includes 7,866 shares acquired by the Company under various compensation and benefit plans.  All transactions were made in the open market or pursuant to prepaid forward agreements with large financial institutions. Under these agreements, the Company prepays large financial institutions to deliver shares at future dates in exchange for a discount.  This table excludes shares withheld from employees to satisfy minimum tax withholding requirements on option exercises and other equity-based transactions. The Company administers cashless exercises through an independent, third party broker and does not repurchase stock in connection with a cashless exercise. 
      (2 
    ) 
    Average price paid per share is calculated on a settlement basis and excludes commission. 
      (3 
    ) 
    On August 3, 2010, the Company announced a share repurchase plan to acquire $6 to $8 billion of Company common stock during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2011 in open market and/or private transactions. This repurchase plan was authorized pursuant to a resolution issued by the Company's Board of Directors and is expected to be financed by issuing a combination of long-term and short-term debt. Certain purchases were made prior to the announcement of the plan but are considered purchases against the plan. The total dollar value of shares purchased under the share repurchase plan was $7 billion. The share repurchase plan expired on June 30, 2011. 
      (4 
    ) 
    The dollar values listed in this column include commissions to be paid to brokers to execute the transactions. 

Additional information required by this item is incorporated by reference to Shareholder Return Performance Graphs, which appears on pages 76-77; Company and Shareholder Information, which appears on page 78 of the 2011 Annual Report; and can be found in Part III, Item 12 of this Form 10-K. 
  Item 6.   Selected Financial Data. 
  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, which appears on pages 56-58; Note 11, Segment Information, which appears on pages 71-72; and Financial Summary, which appears on page 76 of the 2011 Annual Report. 
  Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 
  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to Management's Discussion and Analysis, which appears on pages 33-51; Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, which appears on pages 56--58; Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, which appears on pages 70-71; and Note 11, Segment Information, which appears on pages 71-72 of the 2011 Annual Report. 
    
  The Company has made certain forward-looking statements in the 2011 Annual Report and in other contexts relating to volume and net sales growth, increases in market shares, financial goals and cost reduction, among others. 
  These forward-looking statements are based on assumptions and estimates regarding competitive activity, pricing, product introductions, economic conditions, customer and consumer trends, technological innovation, currency movements, governmental action and the development of certain markets available at the time the statements are made. There are a number of key factors that could cause our actual results to materially differ from the forward-looking statements made herein and in other contexts. Please see Item 1A "Risk Factors" of this Form 10-K for a discussion of these important factors. 
  Item 7A.   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 
  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section entitled Other Information, which appears on page 50, and Note 5, Risk Management Activities and Fair Value Measurements, which appears on pages 60-62 of the 2011 Annual Report. 
  Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 
  Additional information required by this item is incorporated by reference to pages 52-74 and 76 of the 2011 Annual Report. 
  Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 
  Not applicable. 
    8 

Item 9A.   Controls and Procedures. 
  Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures. 
  The Company's President and Chief Executive Officer, Robert A. McDonald, and the Company's Chief Financial Officer, Jon R. Moeller, performed an evaluation of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act)) as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  Messrs. McDonald and Moeller have concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is (1) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and (2) accumulated and communicated to our management, including Messrs. McDonald and Moeller, to allow their timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 
  Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. 
  Management's annual report on internal control over financial reporting and the report of the independent registered public accounting firm are incorporated by reference to pages 30-31 of the 2011 Annual Report. 
  Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting. 
  There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Company's fourth fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting. 
  Item 9B.   Other Information. 
  Not applicable. 
    
    9 

PART III 
  Item 10.   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. 
  The Board of Directors has determined that the following members of the Audit Committee are independent and are Audit Committee financial experts as defined by SEC rules: Ms. Patricia A. Woertz (Chair) and Mr. Kenneth I. Chenault. 
  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the following sections of the 2011 Proxy Statement filed pursuant to Regulation 14A: the sections entitled Election of Directors, Nominees for Election of Directors with Terms Expiring in 2012, The Board of Directors and Committees of the Board, up to but not including the section entitled Board and Committee Meeting Attendance; the section entitled Code of Ethics; and the section entitled Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance. Pursuant to Instruction 3 of Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K, Executive Officers of the Registrant are reported in Part I of this report. 
  Item 11.   Executive Compensation. 
  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the following sections of the 2011 Proxy Statement filed pursuant to Regulation 14A: the sections entitled Committees of the Board and Director Compensation up to but not including the section entitled Security Ownership of Management and Certain Beneficial Owners. 
  Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 
  The following table gives information about the Company's common stock that may be issued upon the exercise of options, warrants and rights under all of the Company's equity compensation plans as of June 30, 2011. The table includes the following plans: The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan; The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan (Belgian Version); The Procter   Gamble 1993 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Plan; The Procter   Gamble Future Shares Plan; The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan; The Procter   Gamble 2003 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Plan; The Gillette Company 1971 Stock Option Plan; The Gillette Company 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan; and The Procter   Gamble 2009 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan. 

(1 
    ) 
    Includes The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan; The Procter   Gamble 1993 Non-Employee Directors Stock Plan; The Procter   Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan; The Procter   Gamble 2003 Non-Employee Directors Stock Plan; and The Procter   Gamble 2009 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan. 
   
                    (2 
    ) 
    Of the plans listed in (1), only The Procter   Gamble 2009 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan and The 2003 Non- Employee Directors Stock Plan allow for future grants of securities. The maximum number of shares that may be granted under these plans is 180 million shares. Stock options and stock appreciation rights are counted on a one for one basis while full value awards (such as RSUs and PSUs) will be counted as 2.88 shares for each share awarded. Total shares available for future issuance under these plans is 122 million. 
      (3 
    ) 
    Includes The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan (Belgian version); The Procter   Gamble Future Shares Plan; The Gillette Company 1971 Stock Option Plan; and The Gillette Company 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan. 
      (4 
    ) 
    None of the plans listed in (3) allow for future grants of securities. 
      (5 
    ) 
    Weighted average exercise price of outstanding options only. 

10 

The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan (Belgian Version) 
  No further grants can be made under the plan, although unexercised stock options previously granted under this plan remain outstanding. This plan was approved by the Company's Board of Directors on February 14, 1997. Although the plan has not been submitted to shareholders for approval, it is nearly identical to The Procter   Gamble 1992 Stock Plan, approved by the Company's shareholders on October 13, 1992, except for a few minor changes designed to comply with the Belgian tax laws. 
  The plan was designed to attract, retain and motivate key Belgian employees. Under the plan, eligible participants were: (i) granted or offered the right to purchase stock options, (ii) granted stock appreciation rights and/or (iii) granted shares of the Company's common stock. Except in the case of death of the recipient, all stock options and stock appreciation rights must vest in no less than one year from the date of grant and must expire no later than fifteen years from the date of grant. The exercise price for all stock options granted under the plan is the average price of the Company's stock on the date of grant. If a recipient of a grant leaves the Company while holding an unexercised option or right, any unexercisable portions immediately become void, except in the case of death, and any exercisable portions become void within one month of departure, except in the case of death or retirement. Any common stock awarded under the plan may be subject to restrictions on sale or transfer while the recipient is employed, as the committee administering the plan may determine. 
  The Procter   Gamble Future Shares Plan 
  On October 14, 1997, the Company's Board of Directors approved The Procter   Gamble Future Shares Plan pursuant to which options to purchase shares of the Company's common stock may be granted to employees worldwide. The purpose of this plan is to advance the interests of the Company by giving substantially all employees a stake in the Company's future growth and success and to strengthen the alignment of interests between employees and the Company's shareholders through increased ownership of shares of the Company's stock. The plan has not been submitted to shareholders for approval. 
  Subject to adjustment for changes in the Company's capitalization, the number of shares to be granted under the plan is not to exceed 17 million shares. Under the plan's regulations, recipients are granted options to acquire 100 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price equal to the average price of the Company's common stock on the date of the grant. These options vest five years after the date of grant and expire ten years following the date of grant. If a recipient leaves the employ of the Company prior to the vesting date for a reason other than disability, retirement or special separation (as defined in the plan), then the award is forfeited. 
  At the time of the first grant following Board approval of the plan, each employee of the Company not eligible for an award under the 1992 Stock Plan was granted options for 100 shares. From the date of this first grant through June 30, 2003, each new employee of the Company has also received options for 100 shares. Following the grant of options on June 30, 2003, the Company suspended this part of the plan. The plan terminated on October 13, 2007. 
  The Gillette Company 1971 Stock Option Plan 
  No further grants can be made under the plan after April 25, 2005, although unexercised stock options previously granted under this plan remain outstanding. The plan was approved by shareholders of The Gillette Company and assumed by the Company upon the merger between The Procter   Gamble Company and The Gillette Company. All options became immediately vested and exercisable on October 1, 2005 as a result of the merger. After the merger, all outstanding options became options to purchase shares of The Procter   Gamble Company subject to an exchange ratio of .975 shares of P G stock per share of Gillette stock. 
  The plan was designed to attract, retain and motivate key salaried employees of The Gillette Company and non-employee members of its Board of Directors. Under the plan, eligible participants receive the option to purchase Company stock at a pre-determined price which cannot be less than 100% of the fair market value per share at the time that the option is granted. The period of any option may not exceed ten years from the date of grant. Subject to adjustment for changes in the Company's capitalization, the number of shares granted under the plan was not to exceed 198,000,000 shares. 
  If a recipient leaves the employ of the Company for any reason other than death or discharge for cause, the recipient is permitted to exercise any vested options granted under the plan for a period between thirty days and five years after termination, depending on the circumstances of his/her departure. If a participant is discharged for cause, all options are immediately cancelled. If a participant dies while holding options, the options are exercisable for a period of one to three years depending on the date of grant. In addition, the plan allows Gillette employees whose employment is terminated for "Good Reason" within two years after the effective date of the merger the ability to exercise remaining options for the shorter of five years following their termination date or the original life of the grant. Employees terminated for "Good Reason" who are also eligible to retire under a Company plan are allowed to exercise their options subject to the original terms of the grant. 
    11 

The Gillette Company 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan 
  Shareholders of The Gillette Company approved The Gillette Company 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan on May 20, 2004, and the plan was assumed by the Company upon the merger between The Procter   Gamble Company and The Gillette Company. All options became immediately vested and exercisable on October 1, 2005 as a result of the merger. After the merger, all outstanding options became options to purchase shares of The Procter   Gamble Company subject to an exchange ratio of .975 shares of P G stock per share of Gillette stock. Only employees previously employed by The Gillette Company prior to October 1, 2005 are eligible to receive grants under this plan. 
  The plan was designed to attract, retain and motivate employees of The Gillette Company, and until the effective date of the merger between The Gillette Company and The Procter   Gamble Company, non-employee members of the Gillette Board of Directors. Under the plan, eligible participants are: (i) granted or offered the right to purchase stock options, (ii) granted stock appreciation rights and/or (iii) granted shares of the Company's common stock or restricted stock units (and dividend equivalents). Subject to adjustment for changes in the Company's capitalization and the addition of any shares authorized but not issued or redeemed under The Gillette Company 1971 Stock Option Plan, the number of shares to be granted under the plan is not to exceed 19,000,000 shares. 
  Except in the case of death of the recipient, all stock options and stock appreciation rights must expire no later than ten years from the date of grant. The exercise price for all stock options granted under the plan must be equal to or greater than the fair market value of the Company's stock on the date of grant. Any common stock awarded under the plan may be subject to restrictions on sale or transfer while the recipient is employed, as the committee administering the plan may determine. 
    
  If a recipient of a grant leaves the Company while holding an unexercised option or right: (1) any unexercisable portions immediately become void, except in the case of death, retirement, special separation (as those terms are defined in the plan) or any grants as to which the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors has waived the termination provisions; and (2) any exercisable portions immediately become void, except in the case of death, retirement, special separation, voluntary resignation that is not for Good Reason (as those terms are defined in the plan) or any grants as to which the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors has waived the termination provisions. 
  Additional information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the 2011Proxy Statement filed pursuant to Regulation 14A, beginning with the section entitled Security Ownership of Management and Certain Beneficial Owners and up to but not including the section entitled Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance. 
    
  Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence. 
  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the following sections of the 2011 Proxy Statement filed pursuant to Regulation 14A: the sections entitled Director Independence and Review and Approval of Transactions with Related Persons. 
    
  Item 14.   Principal Accounting Fees and Services. 
  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the 2011 Proxy Statement filed pursuant to Regulation 14A, beginning with the section entitled Report of the Audit Committee and ending with the section entitled Services Provided by Deloitte. 
    12 

PART IV 
  Item 15.   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. 

1. 
    Financial Statements: 
       
  The following Consolidated Financial Statements of The Procter   Gamble Company and subsidiaries, management's report and the reports of the independent registered public accounting firm are incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 
    
     Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Consolidated Financial Statements 
     Consolidated Statements of Earnings - for years ended June 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
     Consolidated Balance Sheets - as of June 30, 2011 and 2010 
     Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity - for years ended June 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows - for years ended June 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
    
           2. 
    Financial Statement Schedules: 
       
  These schedules are omitted because of the absence of the conditions under which they are required or because the information is set forth in the financial statements or notes thereto. 
  Exhibits: 

13 

14 

(1 
    ) 
    Pursuant to Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, these interactive data files are deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933 or Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and otherwise are not subject to liability. 
      * 
      
    Compensatory plan or arrangement 

15 

SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized in the city of Cincinnati, State of Ohio. 
    
                 THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY 

By 
    /s/    ROBERT A. MCDONALD         
        
    (Robert A. McDonald) 
  Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer 
  August 10, 2011 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 
    
                       Signature 
       
    Title 
      
    Date 

/  S  /    ROBERT A. MCDONALD           
  (Robert A. McDonald) 
       
    Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer) 
      
    August 10, 2011 

/  S  /    JON R. MOELLER           
  (Jon R. Moeller) 
       
    Chief Financial Officer 
  (Principal Financial Officer) 
      
    August 10, 2011 

/  S  /    VALARIE L. SHEPPARD           
  (Valarie L. Sheppard) 
       
    Senior Vice President   Comptroller (Principal Accounting Officer) 
      
    August 10, 2011 

/  S  /    ANGELA F. BRALY           
  (Angela F. Braly) 
       
    Director 
      
    August 10, 2011 

/  S  /    KENNETH I. CHENAULT         
  (Kenneth I. Chenault) 
       
    Director 
      
    August 10, 2011 

/  S  /    SCOTT D. COOK           
  (Scott D. Cook) 
       
    Director 
      
    August 10, 2011 

/  S  /    SUSAN DESMOND-HELLMANN         
  (Susan Desmond-Hellmann) 
       
    Director 
      
    August 10, 2011 

/  S  /    W. JAMES MCNERNEY, JR.           
  (W. James McNerney, Jr.) 
       
    Director 
      
    August 10, 2011 

/  S  /    JOHNATHAN A. RODGERS           
  (Johnathan A. Rodgers) 
       
    Director 
      
    August 10, 2011 

/  S  /    MARGARET C. WHITMAN         
  (Margaret C. Whitman) 
       
    Director 
      
    August 10, 2011 

/  S  /    MARY AGNES WILDEROTTER           
  (Mary Agnes Wilderotter) 
       
    Director 
      
    August 10, 2011 

16 

17 

EXHIBIT INDEX 

18 

19 

(10-23) - 
      
    The Procter   Gamble 2009 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan - Additional terms and conditions (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10-1) of the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2009) and related correspondence (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10-2) of the Company Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011). 

(10-24) - 
      
    The Procter   Gamble Performance Stock Program Summary (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10-3) of the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011) and related terms and conditions (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10-3) of the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011). 

Exhibit      (11) - 
       
    Computation of earnings per share. 

Exhibit      (12) - 
       
    Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges. 

Exhibit      (13) - 
       
    Annual Report to Shareholders (pages 1-79). 

Exhibit      (21) - 
       
    Subsidiaries of the registrant. 

Exhibit      (23) - 
       
    Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 

Exhibit      (31) - 
       
    Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications. 

Exhibit      (32) - 
       
    Section 1350 Certifications. 

Exhibit   (99-1) - 
       
    Summary of Directors and Officers Insurance Program. 

101.INS (1)            
       
    XBRL Instance Document 

101.SCH (1)           
       
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 

101.CAL (1)           
       
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 

101.DEF (1)           
       
    XBRL Taxonomy Definition Linkbase Document 

101.LAB (1)           
       
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 

101.PRE (1)           
       
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 

(1 
    ) 
    Pursuant to Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, these interactive data files are deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933 or Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and otherwise are not subject to liability. 

20 

<EX-10.13>
 2
 exhibit10_13.htm
 THE GILLETTE COMPANY 1971 STOCK OPTION PLAN

The Gillette Company 1971 Stock Option Plan 

Exhibit (10-13) 
    
  The Gillette Company 1971 Stock Option Plan. 

THE GILLETTE COMPANY 
  1971 STOCK OPTION PLAN 
  (Amended and Restated as of December 13, 2005) 

1.        PURPOSE  .  The purpose of the 1971 Stock Option Plan (hereinafter referred to as the  Plan ) is to provide a special incentive to selected key salaried employees of The Gillette Company (hereinafter referred to as the  Company ) and of its subsidiaries and to the non-employee members of the Board of Directors of the Company to promote the Company's business.  The Plan is designed to accomplish this purpose by offering such employees and non-employee directors a favorable opportunity to purchase shares of the common stock of the Company so that they will share in the success of the Company's business.  For purposes of the Plan a subsidiary is any corporation in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, stock possessing fifty percent or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock or over which the Company has effective operating control. 
    
  1.1        ASSUMPTION OF THE PLAN.    As of the Effective Time, The Procter   Gamble Company, an Ohio corporation, has assumed the Plan according to the Merger Agreement.  Unless otherwise specified, amendments to the Plan made in connection with the Merger Agreement shall be effective upon the Effective Time.  Should the Merger not become effective, the Plan shall revert to the form as last amended by  The Gillette Company through October 2004, without prejudice to any Awards then outstanding.  
  2.        ADMINISTRATION  .  The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee heretofore established by the Board of Directors of the Company, no member of which shall be an employee of the Company or of any subsidiary.  The Committee shall have authority, not inconsistently with the Plan, (a) to determine which of the key salaried employees of the Company and its subsidiaries shall be granted options; (b) to determine whether the options granted to any employees shall be incentive stock options within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code or non-qualified stock options or both; provided, however, that with respect to options granted after December 31, 1986, in no event shall the fair market value of the stock (determined at the time of grant of the options) subject to incentive stock options within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code which first became exercisable by any employee in any calendar year exceed $100,000 (and, to the extent such fair market value exceeds $100,000, the later granted options shall be treated as non-qualified stock options); (c) to determine the time or times when options shall be granted to employees and the number of shares of common stock to be subject to each such option provided, however, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 9 of the Plan, in no event shall any employee be granted options covering more than 1,250,000 shares of common stock in any calendar year; (d) with respect to options granted to employees, to determine the option price of the shares subject to each option and the method of payment of such price; (e) with respect to options granted to employees, to determine the time or times when each option becomes exercisable and the duration of the exercise period; (f) to prescribe the form or forms of the instruments evidencing any options granted under the Plan and of any other instruments required under the Plan and to change such forms from time to time; (g) to make all determinations as to the terms of any sales of common stock of the Company to employees under Section 8 of the Plan; (h) to adopt, amend and rescind rules and regulations for the administration of the Plan and the options and for its own acts and proceedings; and (i) to decide all questions and settle all controversies and disputes which may arise in connection with the Plan.  All decisions, determinations and interpretations of the Committee shall be binding on all parties concerned. 

3.        PARTICIPANTS  .  The participants in the Plan shall be such key salaried employees of the Company or of any of its subsidiaries, whether or not also officers or directors, as may be selected from time to time by the Committee in its discretion, subject to the provisions of Section 8 of the Plan.  In addition, each non-employee director shall be a participant in the Plan.  In any grant of options after the initial grant, or any sale made under Section 8 of the Plan after the initial sale, employees who were previously granted options or sold shares under the Plan may be included or excluded. 
    
  4.        LIMITATIONS  .  No option shall be granted under the Plan and no sale shall be made under Section 8 of the Plan after April 21, 2005, but options theretofore granted may extend beyond that date.  Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 9 of the Plan, the number of shares of common stock of the Company, which may be delivered under the Plan, shall not exceed 198,800,000 in the aggregate.  To the extent that any option granted under the Plan shall expire or terminate unexercised or for any reason become unexercisable as to any shares subject thereto, such shares shall thereafter be available for further grants under the Plan, within the limit specified above. 
    
  5.        STOCK TO BE DELIVERED  .  Stock to be delivered under the Plan may constitute an original issue of authorized stock or may consist of previously issued stock acquired by the Company, as shall be determined by the Committee.  The Committee and the proper officers of the Company shall take any appropriate action required for such delivery. 
    
  6.        TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF OPTIONS GRANTED TO EMPLOYEES  .  All options granted to either non-employee directors or employees shall be subject to Paragraphs (3) and (4) of Section 6(c) below.  All options granted to employees under the Plan shall be subject to all the following additional terms and conditions (except as provided in Sections 7 and 8 of the Plan) and to such other terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine to be appropriate to accomplish the purposes of the Plan: 
    
  (a)        Option Price  .  The option price under each option shall be determined by the Committee and shall be not less than l00 percent of the fair market value per share at the time the option is granted.  If the Committee so directs, an option may provide that if an employee Participant who was an employee participant at the time of the grant of the option and who is not an officer or director of the Company at the time of any exercise of the option, he shall not be required to make payment in cash or equivalent at that time for the shares acquired on such exercise, but may at his election pay the purchase price for such shares by making a payment in cash or equivalent of not less than five percent of such price and entering into an agreement, in a form prescribed by the Committee, providing for payment of the balance of such price, with interest at a specified rate, but not less than four percent, over a period not to exceed five years and containing such other provisions as the Committee in its discretion determines.  In addition, if the Committee so directs, an option may provide for a guarantee by the Company of repayment of amounts borrowed by the Participant in order to exercise the option, provided he is not an officer or director of the Company at the time of such borrowing, or may provide that the Company may make a loan, guarantee, or otherwise provide assistance as the Committee deems appropriate to enable the Participant to exercise the option, provided that no such loan, guarantee, or other assistance shall be made without approval of the Board of Directors as required by law. 
    
  (b)        Period of Options  .  The period of an option shall not exceed ten years from the date of grant. 

(c)        Exercise of Option  . 
    
  (1)        Each option held by a participant other than a non-employee director should be made exercisable at such time or times, whether or not in installments, as the Committee shall prescribe at the time the option is granted.  In the case of an option held by a participant other than a non-employee director which is not immediately exercisable in full, the Committee may at any time accelerate the time at which all or any part of the option may be exercised. 
    
  (2)        Options intended to be incentive stock options, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code, shall contain and be subject to such provisions relating to the exercise and other matters as are required of incentive stock options under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and Treasury Regulations, as from time to time in effect, and the Secretary of the Committee shall inform optionees of such provisions. 
    
  (3)        Payment for Delivery of Shares.  Upon exercise of any option, payment in full in the form of cash or a certified bank, or cashier's check or, with the approval of the Secretary of the Committee, in whole or part Common stock of the Company at fair market value, which for this purpose shall be the closing price on the business day preceding the date of exercise, shall be made at the time of such exercise for all shares then being purchased thereunder, except in the case of an exercise to which the provisions of the second sentence of Section 6(a) above are applicable. 
    
  The purchase price payable by any person, other than a non-employee director, who is not a citizen or resident of the United States of America and who is an employee of a foreign subsidiary at the time payment is due shall, if the Committee so directs, be paid to such subsidiary in the currency of the country in which such subsidiary is located, computed at such exchange rate as the Committee may direct.  The amount of each such payment may, in the discretion of the Committee, be accounted for on the books of such subsidiary as a contribution to its capital by the Company.  The Company shall not be obligated to deliver any shares unless and until, in the opinion of the Company's counsel, all applicable federal and state laws and regulations have been complied with, nor, in the event the outstanding common stock is at the time listed upon any stock exchange, unless and until the shares to be delivered have been listed or authorized to be added to the list upon official notice of issuance upon such exchange, nor unless or until all other legal matters in connection with the issuance and delivery of shares have been approved by the Company's counsel.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company may require from the Participant such investment representation or such agreement, if any, as counsel for the Company may consider necessary in order to comply with the Securities Act of 1933 and may require that the Participant agree that any sale of the shares will be made only on the New York Stock Exchange or in such other manner as is permitted by the Committee and that he will notify the Company when he makes any disposition of the shares whether by sale, gift, or otherwise.  The Company shall use its best efforts to effect any such compliance and listing, and the Participant shall take any action reasonably requested by the Company in such connection.  A Participant shall have the rights of a shareholder only as to shares actually acquired by him under the Plan. 
    
  (4)(a)        Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, as hereinafter defined, all outstanding options held by employee Participants and non-employee directors which are not yet exercisable shall become immediately exercisable and all the rights and benefits relating to such options including, but not limited to, periods during which such options may be exercised shall become fixed and not subject to change or revocation by the Company except as otherwise provided under Section 6(i). 

(b)        In the event that, within two years of a Change of Control, the employment of an employee Participant is terminated by the Company for any reason other than for Cause, or the employee Participant terminates employment for Good Reason, or the service as a director of a non-employee director is terminated, the applicable exercise period for all options, other than options granted prior to June 21, 2001 and designated as incentive stock options hereunder, then held by him shall be the greater of (i) a period of two years from the date of termination, and (ii) the post-termination exercise period otherwise applicable to the employee Participant under Section 6(f), or to the non-employee director under Section 12(d); provided, however, that in no event shall any option be exercisable beyond ten years from its date of grant. 
    
  (c)        A Change of Control shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events: 
    
  (1)        The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act )) (a  Person ) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d 3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (A) the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the  Outstanding Company Common Stock ) or (B) the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the  Outstanding Company Voting Securities    provided  ,   however  , that, for purposes of this Paragraph (1), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control:  (i) any acquisition directly from the Company, (ii) any acquisition by the Company, (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or (iv) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of Paragraph (3) below; 
    
  (2)        Individuals who, as of December 16, 1999, constitute the Board of Directors (the  Board ) of the Company (the  Incumbent Board ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board;   provided  ,   however  , that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; 
    
  (3)        Consummation of a reorganization, merger, consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (a  Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities that were the beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of the then-outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation that, as a result of such transaction, owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the 

same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (B) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of such corporation, except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board providing for such Business Combination; or 
    
  (4)        Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company. 
    
  (d)        For the purposes of the Plan, unless otherwise provided under the terms of an employment agreement with the Company or any of its subsidiaries, in which case the definition contained therein shall control, an employee Participant shall be treated as terminating his employment for  Good Reason  if he does so as a direct result of: 
    
  (i)  the assignment to the Participant of any duties materially inconsistent in any respect with the Participant's position (including status, offices, titles and reporting requirements), authority, duties or responsibilities as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control, or any other action by the Company or its subsidiaries that results in a diminution in such position, authority, duties or responsibilities, excluding for this purpose an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith and that is promptly remedied by the Company and/or the subsidiary; 
  (ii)  a decrease in the Participant's compensation, other than an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent failure not occurring in bad faith and that is promptly remedied by the Company and/or the subsidiary; or  
  (iii)  the Company's or the subsidiary's requiring the Participant to be based at any office or location other than (A) the office or where the Participant was based and performed services immediately prior to the Change of Control or (B) any other location less than 35 miles from such office, or the Company's or the subsidiary's requiring the Participant to travel on business to a substantially greater extent than required immediately prior to the Change of Control. 
    
  (d)        Nontransferability of Options  . 
    
  (1)        Except as provided in Paragraphs (2) and (3) below, no option may be transferred by a Participant otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and during the Participant's lifetime the option may be exercised only by him. 
    
  (2)        In the case of options other than (i) those options designated as incentive stock options or (ii) those options excluded from the application of this Paragraph pursuant to a Schedule to this Plan, the Committee in its sole and exclusive discretion may provide in the option agreement covering an option granted hereunder (either at the time of grant or, with the consent of the Participant, at any time thereafter) that the Participant may transfer by gift all or any part of such 

option to (x) his spouse, child, grandchild or other  family member  (as such term is defined for purposes of applicable securities and tax laws), to a trust having only family members as beneficiaries or to a partnership or company having only family members as partners or owners, or (y) a charitable organization described in Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.  Any options so transferred shall remain subject to the otherwise applicable terms of the option agreement and this Plan, and also shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may prescribe.  Subsequent transfers of options shall be permitted under this Paragraph only to the extent, and subject to the rules, prescribed by the Committee. 
    
  (3)        A Participant may transfer all or any part of an option granted hereunder to a former spouse pursuant to the terms of a qualified domestic relations order.  Any options so transferred shall remain subject to the otherwise applicable terms of the option agreement and this Plan.  No subsequent transfers of options shall be permitted under this Paragraph. 
    
  (e)        Nontransferability of Shares  .  If the Committee so determines, an option granted to an employee may provide that, without prior consent of the Committee, shares acquired by exercise of the option shall not be transferred, sold, pledged or otherwise disposed of within a period not to exceed one year from the date the shares are transferred to the Participant upon his exercise of the option or prior to the satisfaction of all indebtedness with respect thereto, if later. 
    
  (f)        Termination of Employment  .  The provisions of this Subsection (f) shall govern in the event of the termination of a Participant's employment with the Company and its subsidiaries.  If the employment of an employee Participant terminates for any reason other than his death, he may (unless discharged for Cause as hereinafter defined) thereafter exercise his option as provided below: 
    
  (i)        If such termination of employment is voluntary on the part of the employee Participant, he may exercise his option only within 30 days after the date of termination of his employment (unless a longer period not in excess of three months is allowed by the Committee). 
    
  (ii)        If such termination of employment is involuntary on the part of the employee Participant, he may exercise his option only within three months after the date of termination of his employment. 
    
  (iii)  If such termination of employment is on account of the employee Participant's total and permanent disability, he may exercise (I) any option granted prior to January 1, 2002 within the period ending one year after the date of termination of his employment, and (II) any option granted after December 31, 2001 within the period ending three years after the date of termination of his employment. 
    
  (iv)        If such termination of employment is on account of the employee Participant's retirement (as defined below), he may exercise (I) any option granted prior to January 1, 1994, other than an option designated as an incentive stock option hereunder, within the period ending two years after his retirement date, (II) any option granted after December 31, 1993 and prior to April 17, 1997, other than an option designated an incentive stock option hereunder, within the period ending three years after his retirement date, (III) any option granted prior to April 17, 1997 and designated an incentive stock option hereunder within the period ending three months after his retirement date, (IV) any option granted after April 16, 1997 and prior to January 1, 2002 within the period ending five years after his retirement date and (V) any option granted after December 31, 2001 over the remaining option period, provided that an 

option described in clause (IV) or (V) which was designated at grant as an incentive stock option shall cease to qualify as an incentive stock option under the Internal Revenue Code if not exercised within three months after his retirement date.  For the purposes of his Plan, an employee Participant's termination of employment is on account of  retirement  if either (A) at the time the Participant leaves the employ of the Company and its subsidiaries, the Participant qualifies for an early or normal retirement pension under the terms of a retirement plan maintained by or to which the Company or any subsidiary contributes for the benefit of the Participant, (B) the Participant leaves the employ of a subsidiary that does not maintain or contribute to a retirement plan for the benefit of the Participant, and at such time the Participant would have qualified for an early or normal retirement pension under the terms of The Gillette Company Retirement Plan had the individual been a participant of that plan, or (C) solely in the case of a Company-initiated termination of employment (other than for Cause), at the time the Participant leaves the employ of the Company and its subsidiaries, the sum of Participant's attained age and years of service (each measured in full and partial years) totals at least 80.  An employee Participant's  retirement date , as used in this paragraph, means the first day the Participant is no longer on the active payroll of the Company or any subsidiary following the Participant's retirement. 
    
  The Committee may, in its sole discretion, terminate any such option at or any time after the date of termination of the Participant's employment (and prior to the expiration of the exercise periods specified above), if it deems such action to be in the best interests of the Company.  In no event may any Participant exercise any option that was not exercisable on the date he ceased to be an employee, except (A) as to options granted prior to January 1, 2002, those options granted at least one year prior to Participant's cessation of employment on account of retirement or total and permanent disability and (B) as to options granted after December 31, 2001, if the Participant's cessation of employment is on account of retirement or total and permanent disability.  In no event may any Participant exercise any option after the expiration of the option period.  For the purposes of this Subsection (f), a Participant's employment shall not be considered terminated in the case of a sick leave or other bona fide leave of absence approved by the Company or a subsidiary in conformance with the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code or Treasury Regulations, or in the case of a transfer to the employment of a subsidiary or to the employment of the Company. 
    
  If an employee Participant is discharged for Cause, as hereinafter defined, all his options shall immediately be cancelled effective as of the date of termination of his employment.  For the purposes of the Plan, unless otherwise provided under the terms of an employment agreement with the Company or any of its subsidiaries, in which case the definition contained therein shall control, a discharge for  Cause  shall have occurred where a Participant is terminated because of: 
    
  (A)        the Participant's continued failure to perform substantially his duties with the Company or any of its subsidiaries (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness), after a written demand for performance is delivered to Participant by an officer or a senior manager of the Company or the subsidiary which identifies the manner in which the Board or the elected officer or manager believes that Participant has not performed his duties; 
    
  (B)        the Participant's engaging in illegal conduct or gross misconduct which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company or the subsidiary; or 
    
  (C)        the Participant's conviction of a felony or a plea of nolo contendere by Participant with respect thereto. 

(g)        Death  .  In the event a Participant dies while holding options granted hereunder, (I) any option granted prior to January 1, 2002 may be exercised within a period not to exceed one year after the date of death, and (II) any option granted after December 31, 2001 may be exercised within a period not to exceed three years after the date of death, as to all or any of the shares covered by such option, by his executor or administrator of the person or persons to whom the option is transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution, and except as so exercised the option shall expire after the expiration of such period.  In no event, however, may any option be exercised after the expiration of the option period. 
    
  (h)        Deferral Election  .  In accordance with such rules and procedures as the Committee may prescribe from time to time, if provided by the Committee, in its sole and exclusive discretion, in the option agreement covering an option granted hereunder, a Participant may elect to defer the delivery of the shares acquired upon the exercise of the option; provided that such election may not be made with respect to any incentive stock option or any option transferred pursuant to the provisions of Section 6(d) above.  The Participant's deferral election must be made at least six months prior to the date such option is exercised or at such other time as the Committee may specify.  Payment of the option exercise price must be made in the form of shares of common stock which the Participant has held for at least six months.  Deferral elections will be allowed only for option exercises that occur while the Participant is an active employee of the Company and its subsidiaries or is actively serving as a non-employee director, as the case may be.  Any election to defer the delivery of the stock shall be irrevocable as long as the Participant remains an employee of the Company and its subsidiaries or a non-employee director, as the case may be. 
    
  Upon the exercise of an option as to which a deferral election has been made in accordance with this Subsection (h), the Company shall credit to a bookkeeping account a number of deferred stock units equal to the number of shares that otherwise would have been delivered to the Participant.  During the period of deferral, the deferred stock units shall accrue dividends at the rate paid upon the Company's common stock, which dividend equivalents shall be credited in the form of additional deferred stock units. Deferred stock units shall be distributed in shares of common stock (with cash payment in lieu of any fractional share) upon the Participant's termination of employment with the Company and its subsidiaries or following the date the Participant's membership on the Board of Directors ceases, as the case may be, or if the Participant's termination is on account of retirement, at such other date or dates as may be approved by the Committee over a period extending no later than 10 years following such termination date. 
    
  The Committee may, in its sole discretion, allow for the early distribution of an employee Participant's deferred stock units in the event of an immediate and heavy financial hardship or in the event of the death or disability of the Participant.  Distribution on account of financial hardship shall be limited to the amount necessary to satisfy the hardship.  In addition, the Committee in its discretion may direct the distribution of an employee Participant's deferred stock units if it believes such action is in the best interest of the Company.  Deferred stock units shall not be assigned or alienated by any Participant, and shall not be subject to attachment, garnishment, encumbrance, pledge or charge of any nature. 
    
  (i)        Additional Conditions of Option Awards  .  Unless otherwise provided pursuant to an employment agreement between an employee Participant and the Company, the following additional provisions shall govern options awarded under the Plan. 

(1)        With respect to any option granted prior to June 21, 2001, and to any option granted on June 21, 2001 under The Gillette U.K. Approved Stock Option Plan ( 2001 UK approved option ), the Committee may, in its sole discretion, cancel any such option at or any time after the date of termination of an employee Participant's employment (and prior to the expiration of the exercise periods specified above), if it deems such action to be in the best interests of the Company. 
    
  (2)        With respect to any option granted on or after June 21, 2001 (other than any 2001 UK approved option) ( covered option ), the following terms and conditions shall apply: 
    
  (a)        Unless otherwise provided pursuant to a termination settlement agreement with the Company or any of its subsidiaries, while the Participant is employed by the Company and for a period of eighteen (18) months after the termination or cessation of such employment for any reason, the Participant shall not directly or indirectly: 
    
  (i)        as an employee, consultant, independent contractor, officer, director, individual proprietor, investor, partner, stockholder, agent, principal, joint venturer, or in any other capacity whatsoever (other than as the holder of not more than one percent of the combined voting power of the outstanding stock of a publicly held corporation or company), be employed, work, consult, advise, assist, or engage in any activity regarding any business, product, service or other matter which: (A) is substantially similar to or competes with any business, product, service or other matter regarding which the Participant worked for the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, during the three (3) years prior to Participant's termination of employment; or (B) concerns subject matters about which Participant gained proprietary information of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, during the three (3) year period prior to the Participant's termination of employment; 
    
  (ii)        either alone or in association with others, solicit, divert or take away, or attempt to divert or to take away, the business or patronage of any of the clients, customers or accounts, or prospective clients, customers or accounts, of the Company which were contacted, solicited or served, directly or indirectly, by Participant while employed by the Company; or 
    
  (iii)        either alone or in association with others: (A) solicit or encourage any employee or independent contractor of the Company to terminate his/her relationship with the Company; or (B) recruit, hire or solicit for employment or for engagement as an independent contractor, any person who is or was employed by the Company at any time during the Participant's employment with the Company; provided, that this Paragraph (iii) shall not apply to such person whose employment with the Company has been terminated for a period of six months or longer. 
    
  (b)        The Participant shall not disclose or use at any time any secret or confidential information or knowledge obtained or acquired by the Participant during, after, or by reason of, employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries, as provided under applicable law and any and all agreements between the Participant and the Company or any of its subsidiaries regarding Participant's employment with the Company or the subsidiary.  
    
  (c)        In accordance with any and all agreements between the Participant and the Company or any of its subsidiaries regarding the Participant's employment, the Participant shall disclose promptly and transfer and assign to the Company all improvements and inventions in certain fields made or conceived by the Participant during employment with the Company or the subsidiary and within the prescribed periods thereafter. 

(d)        To the extent permitted by law, the Participant shall not make, publish or state, or cause to be made, published or stated, any defamatory or disparaging statement, writing or communication pertaining to the character, reputation, business practices, competence or conduct of the Company, its subsidiaries, shareholders, directors, officers, employees, agents, representatives or successors. 
    
  (3)        The geographic scope of the provisions of Paragraph (2)(a) above shall extend to anywhere the Company or any of its subsidiaries is doing business, has done business or intends to do business. 
    
  (4)        If any restriction set forth in Paragraph (2)(a) above is found by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable because it extends for too long a period of time or over too great a range of activities or in too broad a geographic area, it shall be interpreted to extend only over the maximum period of time, range of activities or geographic area as to which it may be enforceable. 
    
  (5)        In the event of a Change of Control, the restrictions contained in Paragraphs (2)(a)(i), (2)(a)(iii) and (2)(d) above shall cease and the Participant shall no longer be bound by the obligations thereunder. 
    
  (6)        If the Company reasonably determines that a Participant has materially violated any of the Participant's obligations under Paragraph (2) above, or if a Participant is terminated for Cause, then, in addition to any other remedies at law or in equity it may have, the Company shall have the following rights and remedies: 
    
  (a)        The Company may cancel any and all covered options granted to the Participant, including grants that according to their terms are vested, effective as of the date on which such violation began (the  Violation Date  and 
    
  (b)        The Company may demand the return of any gain realized by the Participant as a result of the Participant's exercise of any covered option during the period commencing one year prior to the Participant's termination of employment and continuing through the Violation Date.  Upon demand, the Participant shall pay to the Company the amount of any gain realized or payment received as a result of such exercises.  At the option of the Company, such payment shall be made by returning to the Company the number of shares of common stock of the Company which the Participant received in connection with such exercise (with the Company then refunding the option price paid by the Participant), or in cash in the amount of the gain realized.  If after such demand the Participant fails to return said shares or amounts, the Company shall have the right to offset said amounts against any amounts, including compensation, owed to the Participant by the Company or to commence judicial proceedings against the Participant to recover said shares or amounts.  
    
  (7)        The non-competition restrictions set forth in Paragraph (2)(a) supersede any non-competition restrictions of less than eighteen (18) months in duration set forth in any agreement between a Participant and the Company or any subsidiary or predecessor. 
    
  7.        REPLACEMENT OPTIONS  .  The Company may grant options under the Plan on terms differing from those provided for in Section 6 of the Plan where such options are granted in substitution for options held by employees of other corporations who concurrently become employees of the Company or a subsidiary as the result of a merger or consolidation of the employing corporation with the Company or subsidiary, or the acquisition by the Company or a subsidiary of property or stock of the employing corporation.  The Committee may direct that the substitute options be granted on such terms and conditions as the Committee considers appropriate in the circumstances. 

Notwithstanding anything contained in this Plan, the Committee shall have authority, with respect to any options granted or to be granted to employees or outstanding installment Purchase Agreements of participants other than non-employee directors under this Plan, to extend the time for payment of any and all installments, to modify the amount of any installment, to amend outstanding option certificates to provide for installment payments or to take any other action which it may, in its discretion, deem necessary, provided that:  (1) interest on the unpaid balance under any outstanding Purchase Agreement at the rate of at least four percent (4%) per annum shall continue to be due and payable quarterly during the period of any deferral of payment; (2) all such installment Purchase Agreements and unexercised options, shall at all times be in accordance with the applicable provisions of Regulation G of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as from time to time amended, and with all other applicable legal requirements; (3) no such action by the Committee shall jeopardize the status of stock options as incentive stock options under the Internal Revenue Code. 
    
  8.        FOREIGN EMPLOYEES  .  The Company may grant options under the Plan on terms differing from those provided for in Section 6 of the Plan where such options are granted to employee Participants who are not citizens or residents of the United States of America if the Committee determines that such different terms are appropriate in view of the circumstances of such Participants, provided, however, that such options shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of Section 6(a) or Section 6(b) of the Plan. 
    
  In addition, if the Committee determines that options are inappropriate for any key salaried employees who are not citizens or residents of the United States of America, whether because of the tax laws of the foreign countries in which such employees are residents or for other reasons, the Board of Directors may authorize special arrangements for the sale of shares of common stock of the Company to such employees, whether by the Company, or a subsidiary, or other person.  Such arrangements may, if approved by the Board of Directors, include the establishment of a trust by the foreign subsidiary, which is the employer of the key salaried employees, designated by such subsidiary, to whom the shares are to be sold.  Such arrangements shall provide for a purchase price of not less than the fair market value of the stock at the date of sale and a maximum annual grant per participant of options to purchase 1,250,000 shares of common stock and may provide that the purchase price be paid over a period of not more than ten years, with or without interest, and that such employees have the right, with or without payment of a specified premium, to require the seller of the shares to repurchase such shares at the same price, subject to specified conditions.  Such arrangements may also include provisions deemed appropriate as to acceleration or prepayment of the balance of the purchase price, restrictions on the transfer of the shares by the employee, representations or agreements by the employee about his investment purposes and other miscellaneous matters. 
    
  9.        CHANGES IN STOCK  .  In the event of a stock dividend, split-up or combinations of shares, recapitalization or merger in which the Company is the surviving corporation, or other similar capital change, the number and kind of shares of stock or securities of the Company to be subject to the Plan and to options then outstanding or to be granted thereunder, the maximum number of shares or securities which may be issued or sold under the Plan, the maximum annual grant for each participant, the automatic annual grant for each non-employee director, the option price and other relevant provisions shall be appropriately adjusted by the Board of Directors of the Company, whose determination shall be binding on all persons.  In the event of a consolidation or a merger in which the Company is not the surviving corporation or which results in the acquisition of substantially all the Company's outstanding stock by a single person or entity or by a group of persons and/or entities acting in concert, or in the event of complete liquidation of the Company, all outstanding options shall thereupon terminate, provided that (i) at least twenty days prior to the effective date of any such consolidation or merger, the Board of Directors shall with respect to employee participants either (a) make all outstanding options immediately exercisable, or (b) arrange to have the surviving corporation grant replacement options to the employee Participants and (ii) in the case of option grants to non-employee directors, all outstanding options not otherwise exercisable shall become exercisable on the twentieth day prior to the effective date of the merger. 

10.        EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS  .  The adoption of the Plan does not confer upon any employee of the Company or a subsidiary any right to continued employment with the Company or a subsidiary, as the case may be, nor does it interfere in any way with the right of the Company or a subsidiary to terminate the employment of any of its employees at any time. 
    
  11.        AMENDMENT OF PLAN OR OPTIONS  .  The Board of Directors of the Company, or the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors if and to the extent authorized, may at any time or times amend the Plan or amend any outstanding option or options or arrangements established under Section 8 of the Plan for the purpose of satisfying the requirements of any changes in applicable laws or regulations or for any other purpose which may at the time be permitted by law, provided that (except to the extent required or permitted under Section 9 of the Plan and, with respect to clauses (b) and (f) below, except to the extent required or permitted under Section 7 of the Plan) no such amendment shall, without the approval of the stockholders of the Company, (a) increase the maximum number of shares available under the Plan or the maximum annual grant per participant other than as permitted under Section 9 of the Plan, (b) reduce the minimum option price of options thereafter to be granted below the price provided for in Section 6(a) of the Plan, except that the Plan may be amended to provide that the minimum option price of non-qualified stock options thereafter to be granted to employees may be not less than 95% of the fair market value at the date of grant if the Board determines that such amendment is necessary for tax reasons to carry out the objectives of the Plan, (c) reduce the price at which shares of common stock of the Company may be sold under Section 8 of the Plan below the price provided for in said Section 8, (d) reduce the option price of outstanding options, (e) extend the time within which options may be granted, or (f) extend the period of an outstanding option beyond ten years from the date of grant; and further provided no such amendment shall adversely affect the rights of any Participant (without his consent) under any option theretofore granted or other contractual arrangements theretofore entered into or after a Change of Control deprive any Participant of any right or benefit which became operative in the event of a Change of Control. 
    
  12.        TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF OPTIONS GRANTED TO NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS  .  Effective at the close of business on the second business day after the 1992 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Company and on the second business day after each Annual Meeting thereafter, each non-employee director shall be automatically granted a non-incentive stock option to purchase 4,000 shares (5,000 shares for options granted after 2001 and before 2004, and 7,500 shares for options granted after 2003) of the common stock of the Company under the generally applicable provisions of the Plan and upon the following specific terms and conditions: 
    
  (a)        Option Price  .  The option price under each option shall be the fair market value on the date of grant, which for this purpose is defined as the average between the high and the low price of the common stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange. 
    
  (b)        Option Period  .  The period of an option shall be ten years from the date of grant. 
    
  (c)        Option Exercisability  .  Each option granted prior to 2001 shall become exercisable in full on the earlier of the first Annual Meeting following the date of grant or the first anniversary of the date of grant, except as otherwise provided under Paragraph (4) of Section 6(c) of the Plan.  Each option granted after 2000 shall become exercisable ratably over a three year period (for options granted after 2003, this means 2,500 after one year, an additional 2,500 after two years and the remaining 2,500 after three years) on the earlier of the Annual Meeting or the anniversary of the date of grant in each such year, except as otherwise provided under Paragraph (4) of Section 6(c) of the Plan. 

(d)        Exercise Period  .  Any option, otherwise exercisable, may be exercised during the period a non-employee director remains a member of the Board of Directors and for a period of three months following the date a non-employee director ceases to be a director; provided that, in the case where the non-employee director either has attained age 65 or has served as a non-employee director for at least five years when membership on the Board of Directors ends, all of that non-employee director's options shall be exercisable for a period of two years with respect to options granted before 1994, three years for options granted after 1993 and before 2001, five years for options granted after 2000 and before 2002, and the remaining option period for options granted after 2001, each such period commencing on the date membership on the Board of Directors ceases. 
    
  If a non-employee director dies while a member of the Board of Directors, or following the date membership on the Board of Directors ceases while an option remains exercisable in accordance with the preceding paragraph, then (I) for options granted before 2002, at any time or times within one year after that non-employee director's death, and (II) for options granted after 2001, at any time or times within three years after that non-employee director's death, that non-employee director's option may be exercised in accordance with the provisions of Section 6(g) of the Plan.  In no event shall any option be exercised after the expiration of the option period. 
    
  13.  GOVERNING LAW  .  
  (a)        Prior to Effective Time:    Except as to matters concerning the issuance of shares or other matters of corporate governance, which shall be construed under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the Plan and each Award issued under it shall be governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, excluding  any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of the Plan to the substantive law of another jurisdiction.  Recipients of an option under the Plan are deemed to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the federal or state courts of Massachusetts, to resolve any and all issues that may arise out of or relate to the Plan or any option.  
  (b)         Upon and following Effective Time  :  The Plan and each option issued under it shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Ohio, United States of America, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of the Plan to the substantive law of another jurisdiction.  Recipients of an option under the Plan are deemed to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the federal or state courts of Ohio, to resolve any and all issues that may arise out of or relate to the Plan or any option. 
  14  .  SPECIAL MERGER PROVISIONS   
    
  14.1        Acceleration of Options.    Notwithstanding any other provision in the Plan, each option outstanding under the Plan (the  Accelerated Options ) shall be vested and fully exercisable effective immediately prior to the Effective Time as determined by the Authorized Officer. 
  14.2        Special Merger Elections.    Under procedures established by the Authorized Officer, each holder of an Accelerated Option may exercise such Accelerated Option immediately prior to the Effective Time, in whole or in part, and in respect thereof shall be entitled to receive, at such holder's election, either (i) the Merger Shares or (ii) a cash payment equal to the product of (A) the excess (if any) of the per share value of the Merger Shares over the per share exercise price, multiplied by (B) the number of Shares with respect to which the Accelerated Option is exercised, in each case subject to applicable withholding taxes. 
  14.3  Termination Following the Effective Time  .  Unless otherwise provided under the terms of an employment agreement with the Company or its subsidiaries, notwithstanding any other provision in the Plan, a termination of employment for Good Reason within two (2) years of the Effective Time shall be treated for purposes of Accelerated Options the same as (A) a Special Separation or (B) in the case of a Participant eligible for retirement under the Company's benefit plans, as a Retirement.   

14.4 Post-Merger Conversion of Outstanding Accelerated Options.    Each Accelerated Option outstanding at the Effective Time (together,  Gillette Stock Options ) shall cease to represent a right to acquire Shares and, after the Effective Time, shall be deemed an option to acquire, on the same terms and conditions as were applicable under the Gillette Stock Option (but taking into account any applicable changes thereto provided for in this Plan as revised or by reason of the Merger Agreement), that number of Shares of Parent Common Stock determined by multiplying the number of Shares subject to such Gillette Stock Option by the Exchange Ratio, rounded, if necessary, to the nearest whole share of Parent Common Stock, at a price per share (rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of a cent) equal to the per share exercise price specified in such Gillette Stock Option divided by the Exchange Ratio;   provided, however,   that in the case of any Gillette Stock Option to which Section 421 of the Code applies by reason of its qualification under Section 422 of the Code, the option price, the number of shares subject to such option and, except to the extent otherwise required by the Plan as revised, the terms and conditions of exercise of such option shall be determined in a manner consistent with the requirements of Section 424(a) of the Code. 
  14.5  Provisions concerning Options to Nonemployee Directors.    Options held by Nonemployee Directors of The Gillette Company immediately prior to the Effective Time must be exercised within the term of the original grant or within five (5) years from the Effective Time, whichever is shorter.   
  14.6         Assumption of Gillette Stock Options and Certain Undertakings.    Subject to the terms of the Merger Agreement, on the Effective Time The Procter   Gamble Company shall assume the Plan (as revised herein) and each Gillette Stock Option.  To the extent permitted by law but not in derogation of the provisions of this Article 14, The Procter   Gamble Company shall take such reasonable steps as may be necessary to cause the Gillette Stock Options which qualified under Section 422 of Code as incentive stock options prior to the Effective Time to continue to qualify as incentive stock options of The Procter   Gamble Company after the Effective Time. 
  14.7    Special Separation.    In the case of a Special Separation, any option must be exercised within the term of the original grant or five (5) years from the date of Special Separation, whichever is shorter. 
  15.  DEFINITIONS 
  Whenever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below, and when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word shall be capitalized. 
           15.1 
     Accelerated Options    has the meaning accorded such term in Article 14. 
       
           15.2 
     Authorized Officer    means each of (i) the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, (ii) the Vice Chairman, (iii) the Senior Vice President, Finance, and Chief Financial Officer, (iv) the Senior Vice President, Strategy and Business Development, (v) the Senior Vice President and General Counsel, (vi) the Secretary and (vii) such other officers of the Company as any of the foregoing may designate in writing  . 
       
           15.3 
     Board    or    Board of Directors    means the Board of Directors of the Company. 
       
  15.4   Closing    means     the closing of the Merger upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in Article 6 of the Merger Agreement 
  15.5  Committee    means: 
           (a) 
    If describing rights, obligations, conditions, and/or circumstances prior to the Effective Time, the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of The Gillette Company. 
              (b) 
    If describing rights, obligations, conditions, and/or circumstances at or following the Effective Time, the Compensation   Leadership Development Committee (or its functional successor by another name) of The Procter   Gamble Company 

15.6   Company    means: 
  (a)        If describing rights, obligations, conditions, and/or circumstances prior to the Effective Time, The Gillette Company, a Delaware corporation; 
  (b)        If describing rights, obligations, conditions, and/or circumstances at or following the Effective Time, The Procter   Gamble Company, an Ohio corporation. 
  15.7    Effective Time    has the meaning accorded such term in the Merger Agreement. 
  15.8   Exchange Act    means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or any successor act thereto. 
  15.9   Exchange Ratio    has the meaning accorded such term in the Merger Agreement. 
  15.10   Merger    means the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. 
  15.11   Merger Agreement    means the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of January 27, 2005 among The Procter   Gamble Company, Aquarium Acquisition Corp. and The Gillette Company. 
  15.12   Merger Shares    has the meaning accorded such term in the Merger Agreement. 
  15.13    Nonemployee Director    has the same meaning set forth in Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act, or any successor definition adopted by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.  
  15.14    Parent    means The Procter   Gamble Company. 
  15.15     Parent Common Stock    has the meaning accorded such term in the Merger Agreement. 
  15.16   Participant    means any eligible person to whom an Award is granted. 
  15.17   Plan    means The Gillette Company 1971 Stock Option Plan as from time to time amended and in effect. 
  15.18   Retirement    means:  (a) retirement in accordance with the provisions of any appropriate retirement plan of the Company or any of its subsidiaries; or (b) termination of employment under the total and permanent disability provision of any retirement or disability plan of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any plan to which the Company or its subsidiaries contribute for purposes of the retirement or disability of Employees. 
  15.19     Share    means a Share of common stock of the Company 
  15.20     Special Separation    means any termination of employment that occurs prior to the time a Participant is eligible to retire, except a termination for Cause or a voluntary resignation that is not initiated or encouraged by the Company. 
  15.21     Subsidiary    means any corporation or other entity, whether domestic or foreign, in which the Company has or obtains, directly or indirectly, a proprietary interest of more than fifty percent (50%) by reason of stock ownership or otherwise.  

</EX-10.13>

<EX-11>
 3
 exhibit11.htm
 COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE

Exhibit 11 

EXHIBIT (11) 
  THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  Computation of Earnings Per Share 
  Amounts in millions except per share amounts 

</EX-11>

<EX-12>
 4
 exhibit12.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Exhibit 12 

EXHIBIT (12) 
  THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 
  Amounts in millions 

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 5
 exhibit13.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS

Exhibit 13 FY 2011 

EXHIBIT (13) 
    
  Annual Report to Shareholders 
  (pages 1-79) 

The Procter   Gamble Company   29 

Financial Contents 

Management s Responsibility for Financial Reporting 
       
    30 
      Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
       
    31 
      Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
       
    31 

Management s Discussion and Analysis 

Overview 
       
    33 
      Summary of 2010 Results 
       
    36 
      Forward-Looking Statements 
       
    36 
      Results of Operations 
       
    37 
      Segment Results 
       
    40 
      Financial Condition 
       
    45 
      Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates 
       
    48 
      Other Information 
       
    50 

Audited Consolidated Financial Statements 

Consolidated Statements of Earnings 
       
    52 
      Consolidated Balance Sheets 
       
    53 
      Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity 
       
    54 
      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
       
    55 
      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
       
    56 

30   The Procter   Gamble Company 

Management's Responsibility for Financial Reporting 
  At The Procter   Gamble Company, we take great pride in our long history of doing what's right. If you analyze what's made our Company successful over the years, you may focus on our brands, our marketing strategies, our organization design and our ability to innovate. But if you really want to get at what drives our Company's success, the place to look is our people. Our people are deeply committed to our Purpose, Values and Principles. It is this commitment to doing what's right that unites us. 
  This commitment to doing what's right is embodied in our financial reporting. High-quality financial reporting is our responsibility-one we execute with integrity, and within both the letter and spirit of the law. 
  High-quality financial reporting is characterized by accuracy, objectivity and transparency. Management is responsible for maintaining an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting to deliver those characteristics in all material respects. The Board of Directors, through its Audit Committee, provides oversight. We have engaged Deloitte   Touche LLP to audit our Consolidated Financial Statements, on which they have issued an unqualified opinion. 
  Our commitment to providing timely, accurate and understandable information to investors encompasses: 
  Communicating expectations to employees  . Every employee-from senior management on down-is required to be trained on the Company's   Worldwide Business Conduct Manual  , which sets forth the Company's commitment to conduct its business affairs with high ethical standards. Every employee is held personally accountable for compliance and is provided several means of reporting any concerns about violations of the   Worldwide Business Conduct Manual  , which is available on our website at www.pg.com. 
  Maintaining a strong internal control environment  . Our system of internal controls includes written policies and procedures, segregation of duties and the careful selection and development of employees. The system is designed to provide reasonable assurance that transactions are executed as authorized and appropriately recorded, that assets are safeguarded and that accounting records are sufficiently reliable to permit the preparation of financial statements conforming in all material respects with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. We monitor these internal controls through control self-assessments conducted by business unit management. In addition to performing financial and compliance audits around the world, including unannounced audits, our Global Internal Audit organization provides training and continuously improves internal control processes. Appropriate actions are taken by management to correct any identified control deficiencies. 
  Executing financial stewardship  . We maintain specific programs and activities to ensure that employees understand their fiduciary responsibilities to shareholders. This ongoing effort encompasses financial discipline in strategic and daily business decisions and brings particular focus to maintaining accurate financial reporting and effective controls through process improvement, skill development and oversight. 
  Exerting rigorous oversight of the business  . We continuously review business results and strategic choices. Our Global Leadership Council is actively involved-from understanding strategies to reviewing key initiatives, financial performance and control assessments. The intent is to ensure we remain objective, identify potential issues, continuously challenge each other and ensure recognition and rewards are appropriately aligned with results. 
  Engaging our Disclosure Committee  . We maintain disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed is recorded, processed, summarized and reported timely and accurately. Our Disclosure Committee is a group of senior-level executives responsible for evaluating disclosure implications of significant business activities and events. The Committee reports its findings to the CEO and CFO, providing an effective process to evaluate our external disclosure obligations. 
  Encouraging strong and effective corporate governance from our Board of Directors  . We have an active, capable and diligent Board that meets the required standards for independence, and we welcome the Board's oversight. Our Audit Committee comprises independent directors with significant financial knowledge and experience. We review significant accounting policies, financial reporting and internal control matters with them and encourage their independent discussions with external auditors. Our corporate governance guidelines, as well as the charter of the Audit Committee and certain other committees of our Board, are available on our website at www.pg.com. 
  P G has a strong history of doing what's right. Our employees embrace our Purpose, Values and Principles. We take responsibility for the quality and accuracy of our financial reporting. We present this information proudly, with the expectation that those who use it will understand our Company, recognize our commitment to performance with integrity and share our confidence in P G's future. 

Robert A. McDonald 
      Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer 

Jon R. Moeller 
      Chief Financial Officer 

The Procter   Gamble Company   31 

Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
    
  Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting of The Procter   Gamble Company (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended). Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. 
    
  Strong internal controls is an objective that is reinforced through our   Worldwide Business Conduct Manual  , which sets forth our commitment to conduct business with integrity, and within both the letter and the spirit of the law. The Company s internal control over financial reporting includes a Control Self-Assessment Program that is conducted annually by substantially all areas of the Company and is audited by the internal audit function. Management takes the appropriate action to correct any identified control deficiencies. Because of its inherent limitations, any system of internal control over financial reporting, no matter how well designed, may not prevent or detect misstatements due to the possibility that a control can be circumvented or overridden or that misstatements due to error or fraud may occur that are not detected. Also, because of changes in conditions, internal control effectiveness may vary over time. 
    
  Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2011, using criteria established in   Internal Control Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) and concluded that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2011, based on these criteria. 
    
  Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2011, as stated in their report which is included herein. 

Robert A. McDonald 
      Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
  The Procter   Gamble Company 
  We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets of The Procter   Gamble Company and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of June 30, 2011 and 2010, and the related Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Shareholders' Equity, and Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2011.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  In our opinion, such Consolidated Financial Statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at June 30, 2011 and 2010, and the results of its operations and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2011, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. 
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2011, based on the criteria established in   Internal Control-Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated August 10, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting. 
  
  Cincinnati, Ohio 
  August 10, 2011 

32   The Procter   Gamble Company 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
  The Procter   Gamble Company 
  We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of The Procter   Gamble Company and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of June 30, 2011, based on criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.  Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  
  In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2011, based on the criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company as of and for the year ended June 30, 2011 and our report dated August 10, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements. 
  
  Cincinnati, Ohio 
  August 10, 2011 

Management's Discussion and Analysis 
      
     The Procter   Gamble Company   33 

Management's Discussion and Analysis 
  The purpose of this discussion is to provide an understanding of P G's financial results and condition by focusing on changes in certain key measures from year to year. Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD A) is organized in the following sections: 
             
    Overview 
                 
    Forward-Looking Statements 
                
    Results of Operations 
                
    Segment Results 
                
    Financial Condition 
                
    Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates 
                
    Other Information 

Throughout MD A, we refer to measures used by management to evaluate performance, including unit volume growth, net sales and net earnings. We also refer to a number of financial measures that are not defined under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP), including organic sales growth, core earnings per share (Core EPS), free cash flow and free cash flow productivity. Organic sales growth is net sales growth excluding the impacts of foreign exchange, acquisitions and divestitures. Core EPS is diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations excluding certain specified charges. Free cash flow is operating cash flow less capital spending. Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings. We believe these measures provide investors with important information that is useful in understanding our business results and trends. The explanation at the end of MD A provides more details on the use and the derivation of these measures. 
  Management also uses certain market share and market consumption estimates to evaluate performance relative to competition despite some limitations on the availability and comparability of share and consumption information. References to market share and market consumption in MD A are based on a combination of vendor-reported consumption and market size data, as well as internal estimates. All market share references represent the percentage of sales in dollar terms on a constant currency basis of our products, relative to all product sales in the category. In certain situations, we discuss volume share, which is the percentage of unit volume of our products relative to all products sold in the category. 
  Recent Business Developments 
  Effective February 2011, the Company consolidated the three Global Business Units (GBUs) into two: Beauty   Grooming and Household Care.  As a result, the Health Care segment largely became part of P G's Beauty and Grooming GBU, while the Snacks and Pet Care segment became part of P G's Household Care GBU. 
  In October 2009, we sold our global pharmaceuticals business to Warner Chilcott plc (Warner Chilcott) for $2.8 billion, net of assumed and transferred liabilities. Under the terms of the agreement, Warner Chilcott acquired our portfolio of branded pharmaceuticals products, our prescription drug product pipeline and our manufacturing facilities in Puerto Rico and Germany. The pharmaceuticals business had historically been part of the Health Care reportable segment. In accordance with the applicable accounting guidance for the disposal of long-lived assets, the results of our pharmaceuticals business are presented as discontinued operations and, as such, have been excluded from continuing operations and from segment results for all periods presented. 
  In November 2008, we completed the divestiture of our coffee business through the merger of our Folgers coffee subsidiary into The J.M. Smucker Company (Smucker) in an all-stock Reverse Morris Trust transaction. In connection with the merger, 38.7 million shares of P G common stock were tendered by our shareholders and exchanged for all shares of Folgers common stock. Pursuant to the merger, a Smucker subsidiary merged with and into Folgers and Folgers became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Smucker. 
  The coffee business had historically been part of the Company's Snacks, Coffee and Pet Care reportable segment, as well as the coffee portion of the away-from-home business which was included in the Fabric Care and Home Care reportable segment. In accordance with the applicable accounting guidance for the disposal of long-lived assets, the results of our coffee business are presented as discontinued operations and, as such, have been excluded from continuing operations and from segment results for all periods presented. The Snacks, Coffee and Pet Care reportable segment was renamed Snacks and Pet Care to reflect this change. 
    OVERVIEW 
  The purpose of our business is to provide branded consumer packaged goods of superior quality and value to our consumers around the world. This will enable us to execute our Purpose-inspired growth strategy: to touch and improve more consumers' lives, in more parts of the world, more completely. We believe this will result in leadership sales, earnings and value creation, allowing employees, shareholders and the communities in which we operate to prosper. 
    
  Our products are sold in more than 180 countries primarily through mass merchandisers, grocery stores, membership club stores, drug stores and high-frequency stores, the neighborhood stores which serve many consumers in developing markets. We continue to expand our presence in other channels, including department stores, perfumeries, pharmacies, salons and e-commerce. We have on-the-ground operations in approximately 80 countries. 
    
  Our market environment is highly competitive with global, regional and local competitors. In many of the markets and industry segments in which we sell our products, we compete against other branded products as well as retailers' private-label brands. Additionally, many of the product segments in which we compete are differentiated by price (referred to as super-premium, premium, mid-tier and value-tier products).  We are well positioned in the industry segments and markets in which we operate-often holding a leadership or significant market share position. 

34   The Procter   Gamble Company 
      
    Management's Discussion and Analysis 

Organizational Structure 
  Our organizational structure is comprised of two Global Business Units (GBUs), Global Operations, Global Business Services (GBS) and Corporate Functions (CF). 
  GLOBAL BUSINESS UNITS 
  Effective February 2011, our two GBUs are Beauty   Grooming and Household Care.  The primary responsibility of the GBUs is to develop the overall strategy for our brands.  They identify common consumer needs, develop new product innovations and upgrades and build our brands through effective commercial innovations and marketing plans.   
  Under U.S. GAAP, the business units comprising the GBUs are aggregated into six reportable segments: Beauty; Grooming; Health Care; Snacks and Pet Care; Fabric Care and Home Care; and Baby Care and Family Care. The following provides additional detail on our reportable segments, businesses and the key product and brand composition within each. 
                           Reportable Segment 
    % of 
  Net Sales* 
    % of Net 
  Earnings* 
    Categories 
    Billion Dollar Brands 
      Beauty 
    24 
    % 
    24 
    % 
    Cosmetics, Female Antiperspirant and Deodorant, Female Personal Cleansing, Female Shave Care, Hair Care, Hair Color, Hair Styling, Pharmacy Channel, Prestige Products, Salon Professional, Skin Care 
    Head   Shoulders, Olay, Pantene, Wella 
      Grooming 
    9 
    % 
    14 
    % 
    Electronic Hair Removal Devices, Home Small Appliances, Male Blades and Razors, Male Personal Care 
    Braun, Fusion, Gillette, Mach3 
      Health Care 
    14 
    % 
    16 
    % 
    Feminine Care, Gastrointestinal, Incontinence, Rapid Diagnostics, Respiratory, Toothbrush, Toothpaste, Water Filtration, Other Oral Care 
    Always, Crest, Oral-B 
      Snacks and Pet Care 
    4 
    % 
    2 
    % 
    Pet Care, Snacks 
    Iams, Pringles 
      Fabric Care and Home Care 
    30 
    % 
    27 
    % 
    Laundry Additives, Air Care, Batteries, Dish Care, Fabric Enhancers, Laundry Detergents, Surface Care 
    Ace, Ariel, Dawn, Downy, Duracell, Gain, Tide, Febreze 
      Baby Care and Family Care 
    19 
    % 
    17 
    % 
    Baby Wipes, Diapers, Paper Towels, Tissues, Toilet Paper 
    Bounty, Charmin, Pampers 

*     Percent of net sales and net earnings from continuing operations for the year ended June 30, 2011 (excluding results held in Corporate). 
    
  Beauty:   We are a global market leader in the beauty category. Most of the beauty markets in which we compete are highly fragmented with a large number of global and local competitors. In female beauty, we compete with a wide variety of products, ranging from cosmetics to female blades and razors to skin care, such as the Olay brand, which is the top facial skin care brand in the world with approximately 10% of the global market share. In hair care, we compete in both the retail and salon professional channels. We are the global market leader in the retail hair care market with over 20% of the global market share behind Pantene and Head   Shoulders. In the prestige channel, we compete primarily with prestige fragrances and the SK-II brand. We are one of the global market leaders in prestige fragrances, primarily behind the Dolce   Gabbana, Gucci and Hugo Boss fragrance brands. 
    
  Grooming:   We hold leadership market share in the male blades and razors market on a global basis and in nearly all of the geographies in which we compete. Our global male blades and razors market share is approximately 70%, primarily behind the Gillette franchise including Fusion and Mach3. We also compete in male personal care with deodorants, face and shave preparation, hair and skin care and personal cleansing products. Our electronic hair removal devices and small home appliances are sold under the Braun brand in a number of markets around the world, where we compete against both global and regional competitors. Our primary focus in this area is electric hair removal devices, such as electric razors and epilators, where we hold approximately 30% of the male shavers market and 50% of the female epilators market. 
    
  Health Care:   We compete in oral care, feminine care and personal health. In oral care, there are several global competitors in the market, and we have the number two market share position with over 20% of the global market. We are the global market leader in the feminine care category with over 30% of the global market share. In personal health, we are the market leader in nonprescription heartburn medications behind Prilosec OTC and in respiratory treatments behind Vicks. 
    
  Snacks and Pet Care:   In snacks, we compete against both global and local competitors and have a global market share of almost 10% in the potato chips market behind our Pringles brand. In pet care, we compete in several markets around the globe in the premium pet care segment, with the Iams and Eukanuba brands. The vast majority of our pet care business is in North America, where we have almost a 10% share of the market. 
    
  Fabric Care and Home Care:   This segment is comprised of a variety of fabric care products, including laundry detergents, additives and fabric enhancers; home care products, including dishwashing liquids and detergents, surface cleaners and air fresheners; and batteries. In fabric care, we generally have the number one or number two share position in the markets in which we compete and are the global market leader, with about 30% of the global market share. Our global home care market share is over 15% across the categories in which we compete. In batteries, we compete primarily behind the Duracell brand and have over 25% of the global battery market share. 

Management's Discussion and Analysis 
      
     The Procter   Gamble Company   35 

Baby Care and Family Care:   In baby care, we compete mainly in diapers and baby wipes, with approximately 35% of the global market share. We are the number one or number two baby care competitor in most of the key markets in which we compete, primarily behind Pampers, the Company's largest brand, with annual net sales of approximately $9 billion. Our family care business is predominantly a North American business comprised largely of the Bounty paper towel and Charmin toilet paper brands. U.S. market shares are approximately 45% for Bounty and over 25% for Charmin. 
  GLOBAL OPERATIONS 
  Global Operations is comprised of our Market Development Organization (MDO), which is responsible for developing go-to-market plans at the local level. The MDO includes dedicated retail customer, trade channel and country-specific teams. It is organized along five geographic units: North America, Western Europe, Central   Eastern Europe/Middle East/Africa (CEEMEA), Latin America and Asia, which is comprised of Japan, Greater China and ASEAN/Australia/India/Korea (AAIK). Throughout MD A, we reference business results in developing markets, which we define as the aggregate of CEEMEA, Latin America, AAIK and Greater China, and developed markets, which are comprised of North America, Western Europe and Japan. 
  GLOBAL BUSINESS SERVICES 
  GBS provides technology, processes and standard data tools to enable the GBUs and the MDO to better understand the business and better serve consumers and customers. The GBS organization is responsible for providing world-class solutions at a low cost and with minimal capital investment. 
  CORPORATE FUNCTIONS 
  CF provides Company-level strategy and portfolio analysis, corporate accounting, treasury, external relations, governance, human resources and legal, as well as other centralized functional support. 
  Strategic Focus 
  We are focused on strategies that we believe are right for the long-term health of the Company and will deliver total shareholder return in the top one-third of our peer group. The Company's long-term financial targets are: 
             
    Grow organic sales 1% to 2% faster than market growth in the categories and geographies in which we compete, 
                
    Deliver Core EPS growth of high single digits to low double digits, and 
                
    Generate free cash flow productivity of 90% or greater. 
     In order to achieve these targets, we have created one over-arching strategy, inspired by our Purpose. At the heart of this strategy is innovating to win by touching and improving the lives of: 
             
    More Consumers  . We are improving more consumers' lives by innovating and expanding our product portfolio vertically, up and down value tiers. We continue to successfully develop and launch premium innovations focused on improving consumer value through enhanced performance. We are also serving consumers who are more price conscious through lower-priced offerings with superior performance versus other mid-tier and value-tier alternatives. 
                
    In More Parts of the World  . We are improving lives in more parts of the world by innovating and expanding our existing product portfolio geographically into new markets. We are increasing our presence in developing markets and increasing the amount of sales from these markets by focusing on affordability, accessibility and awareness of our brands. 
                
    More Completely  . We are improving lives more completely by innovating to improve existing products, creating or entering adjacent categories and expanding into new channels to reach consumers where they shop.  We are driving regimen use that broadens the occasions for which our brands can serve the needs of each consumer.  By attracting new consumers into our existing brand franchises and broadening the products used by our current consumers, we are able to build scale, reduce costs and profitably grow market share. 
       
  We will leverage P G's five core strengths that create competitive advantages and are critical to winning in the consumer products industry: consumer knowledge; innovation; brand-building; go-to-market capabilities and scale. We are coordinating our activities across categories and markets, acting more intentionally as one Company. We are placing particular emphasis on execution, simplification and scale as key improvement areas that will enable P G to create the greatest value and competitive advantage. Finally, we are strengthening the depth, breadth and quality of leadership at all levels of the Company to make P G a more demand-driven, real-time, future-focused organization. 

36   The Procter   Gamble Company 
      
    Management's Discussion and Analysis 

SUMMARY OF 2011 RESULTS 
    
        Organic sales increased 4%. 
       Unit volume increased 6% versus the prior year, behind double-digit growth in developing regions and low single-digit growth in developed regions. 
             
    Net earnings from continuing operations increased 8% to $11.8 billion behind sales growth and a lower effective tax rate, partially offset by operating margin contraction. 
                
    Operating margin declined 110 basis points behind a reduction in gross margin, partially offset by a reduction in selling, general and administrative expenses (SG A) as a percentage of net sales.  Gross margin declined behind higher commodity costs, partially offset by manufacturing cost savings.   SG A as a percentage of net sales declined due to reduced foreign currency exchange costs and a reduction in overhead spending as a percentage of net sales due to productivity improvements, partially offset by increased marketing investments. 
           Net earnings from discontinued operations declined $1.8 billion due to the gains on the sale of the pharmaceutical business in the prior year.     
             
    Diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations increased 11% to $3.93. 
          Diluted net earnings per share declined 4% to $3.93, including a decline in discontinued operations of $0.58. 
       Core EPS grew 8% to $3.95. 
             
    Cash flow from operating activities was $13.2 billion. 
          Free cash flow was $9.9 billion. 
       Free cash flow productivity was 84%. 
    
    FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
  We discuss expectations regarding future performance, events and outcomes, such as our business outlook and objectives, in annual and quarterly reports, press releases and other written and oral communications. All such statements, except for historical and present factual information, are "forward-looking statements," and are based on financial data and our business plans available only as of the time the statements are made, which may become out-of-date or incomplete. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or other factors. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and investors must recognize that events could be significantly different from our expectations. For more information on risks that could impact our results, refer to Item 1A Risk Factors in our most recent 10-Q, 10-K and 8-K filings. 
  Ability to Achieve Business Plans  .  We are a consumer products company and rely on continued demand for our brands and products. To achieve business goals, we must develop and sell products that appeal to consumers and retail trade customers. Our continued success is dependent on leading-edge innovation with respect to both products and operations,  on the continued positive reputations of our brands and our ability to successfully maintain trademark protection. This means we must be able to obtain patents and trademarks, and respond to technological advances and patents granted to competition. Our success is also dependent on effective sales, advertising and marketing programs. Our ability to innovate and execute in these areas will determine the extent to which we are able to grow existing sales and volume profitably, especially with respect to the product categories and geographic markets (including developing markets) in which we have chosen to focus. There are high levels of competitive activity in the environments in which we operate. To address these challenges, we must respond to competitive factors, including pricing, promotional incentives, trade terms and product initiatives. We must manage each of these factors, as well as maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, in order to effectively compete and achieve our business plans. As a company that manages a portfolio of consumer brands, our ongoing business model involves a certain level of ongoing acquisition and divestiture activities. We must be able to successfully manage the impacts of these activities, while at the same time delivering against base business objectives. Daily conduct of our business also depends on our ability to maintain key information technology systems, including systems operated by third-party suppliers. 
  Cost Pressures  .  Our costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in commodity prices, raw materials, labor costs, foreign exchange and interest rates. Therefore, our success is dependent, in part, on our continued ability to manage these fluctuations through pricing actions, cost savings projects, sourcing decisions and certain hedging transactions. We also must manage our debt and currency exposure, especially in certain countries with currency exchange controls, such as Venezuela, China and India. We need to maintain key manufacturing and supply arrangements, including sole supplier and sole manufacturing plant arrangements, and successfully manage any disruptions at Company manufacturing sites. We must implement, achieve and sustain cost improvement plans, including our outsourcing projects and those related to general overhead and workforce optimization. Successfully managing these changes, including identifying, developing and retaining key employees, is critical to our success. 
  Global Economic Conditions  .  Economic changes, terrorist activity, political unrest and natural disasters, such as the civil unrest in the Middle East and the impacts of the Japan earthquake and tsunami, may result in business interruption, inflation, deflation or decreased demand for our products. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to manage continued global political and/or economic uncertainty, especially in our significant geographic markets, due to terrorist and other hostile activities or natural disasters.  We could also be negatively impacted by a global, regional or national economic crisis, including sovereign risk in the event of a deterioration in the credit worthiness of or a default by local governments, resulting in a disruption  

Management's Discussion and Analysis 
      
     The Procter   Gamble Company   37 

of credit markets.  Such events could negatively impact our ability to collect receipts due from governments, including refunds of value added taxes, create significant credit risks relative to our local customers and depository institutions, and/or negatively impact our overall liquidity. 
  Regulatory Environment  .  Changes in laws, regulations and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business. This includes changes in environmental, competitive and product-related laws, as well as changes in accounting standards and taxation requirements. Our ability to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters (including product liability, patent, intellectual property, competition law matters and tax policy) and to resolve pending legal matters within current estimates may impact our results. 
      
  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  Net Sales 
  Net sales increased 5% in 2011 to $82.6 billion on a 6% increase in unit volume.  Volume grew behind market and share growth.  Global market growth, in categories that we compete, grew 3% on a constant currency basis.  Volume increased low single digits in developed regions and double digits in developing regions.  All geographic regions contributed to volume growth, led by double-digit growth in Asia, high single-digit growth in Latin America and mid-single-digit growth in CEEMEA and Western Europe.  All six of the business segments contributed to volume growth with high single-digit growth in the Baby Care and Family Care and Fabric Care and Home Care segments, mid-single-digit growth in the Beauty and Health Care segments, and a low single-digit growth in the Grooming and Snacks and Pet Care segments. Organic volume, which excludes acquisitions and divestitures, was up 5%.  Mix reduced net sales by 2% due mainly to disproportionate growth in developing regions and mid-tier products, both of which have lower than Company average selling prices, and declines in the premium-priced professional salon and prestige categories.  Pricing added 1% to net sales behind price increases to offset higher commodity costs and foreign exchange.  Organic sales were up 4%, led by high single-digit growth in the Baby and Family Care segment, as well as mid-single-digit growth across the Grooming and Health Care segments.   

Net sales increased 3% in 2010 to $78.9 billion on a 4% increase in unit volume. Volume increased low single digits in developed regions and mid-single digits in developing regions. All geographic regions contributed to volume growth, led by high single-digit growth in Asia and CEEMEA. Volume growth for the reportable segments was mixed, with low single-digit increases in the Beauty, Grooming and Health Care segments, a mid-single-digit increase in the Fabric Care and Home Care segment and a high single-digit increase in the Baby Care and Family Care segment, partially offset by a low single-digit decline in the Snacks and Pet Care segment. Price increases added 1% to net sales as increases taken primarily in developing regions to offset local currency devaluations were partially offset by price reductions to improve consumer value. Mix reduced net sales by 1% behind disproportionate growth in developing regions, which have lower than Company average selling prices, and relatively weaker shipments of Salon Professional, Prestige, Personal Health Care and Pet Care, which have higher than Company average selling prices. Organic sales were up 3%, led by mid-single-digit growth across the Fabric Care and Home Care and the Baby Care and Family Care segments. Unfavorable foreign exchange reduced net sales growth by 1% as the U.S. dollar strengthened versus key foreign currencies. 
  Operating Costs 

38   The Procter   Gamble Company 
      
    Management's Discussion and Analysis 

Gross margin contracted 140 basis points in 2011 to 50.6% of net sales. The reduction in gross margin was driven mainly by a 225-basis point increase in commodity and energy costs, along with negative product mix from disproportionate growth in developing regions and mid-tier products. These impacts were partially offset by manufacturing cost savings and the favorable impact of volume scale leverage. 
    
  Gross margin expanded 250 basis points in 2010 to 52.0% of net sales. Manufacturing and logistics cost savings projects and lower commodity and energy costs positively impacted gross margin by about 280 basis points. Volume scale leverage and price increases also contributed to gross margin expansion. These impacts were partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange and product mix impacts. 

Total selling, general and administrative expenses (SG A) increased 4% to $26.0 billion in 2011 behind higher marketing and overhead spending, which was partially offset by the impact of lower foreign currency exchange costs. SG A as a percentage of net sales decreased 30 basis points to 31.4% due to a reduction in overhead and other operating expenses as a percentage of net sales, partially offset by increased marketing investments.  Marketing spending as a percentage of net sales increased 60 basis points due to additional marketing investments to support innovation and expansion plans.  Overhead spending as a percentage of net sales decreased 50 basis points due to sales leverage, partially offset by added spending to support growth.  Other operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased 40 basis points mainly due to a decrease in Venezuela-related foreign currency exchange costs of $548 million (see further discussion in the following paragraphs).  Charges for competition law fines increased nominally to $303 million versus the prior year charge of $283 million.   
  SG A increased 10% to $25.0 billion in 2010 behind higher marketing, overhead and other operating expenses. SG A as a percentage of net sales increased 220 basis points to 31.7% due to higher marketing and other operating expenses as a percentage of net sales, while overhead spending as a percentage of sales was in line with the prior year. Marketing spending as a percentage of net sales was up 150 basis points as additional marketing investments, primarily to increase media impressions, and the impact of reduced spending in the fourth quarter of 2009 were partially offset by media rate savings. Advertising spending as a percentage of net sales was up 110 basis points versus 2009 behind investments to support initiatives and business growth. Overhead spending as a percentage of net sales was consistent with the prior year as additional spending to support business growth was offset by productivity improvements and lower restructuring charges. Other operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased 70 basis points mainly due to an increase in Venezuela-related foreign currency exchange costs of $492 million (see further discussion in the following paragraph) and charges for competition law fines of $283 million. 
  Because of currency restrictions in Venezuela, payments for certain imported goods and services have historically been satisfied by exchanging Bolivares Fuertes for U.S. dollars through securities transactions in the parallel market rather than at the more favorable official exchange rate. At the discretion of management, these securities transactions can be utilized to manage exposure to currency movements on local cash balances. A reduction in the availability of foreign currency at the official exchange rate and an increased spread between the official and parallel exchange rates during most of fiscal 2010 resulted in increased costs for exchange transactions executed using securities transactions in the parallel market during 2010.  There were minimal parallel market exchange transactions executed during 2011 due to a very restrictive parallel market exchange mechanism.   For a more detailed discussion of the impacts of and recent events in Venezuela, see the section entitled "Venezuela Currency Impacts" at the end of this Results of Operations section. 

We fund a number of restructuring-type activities, primarily related to manufacturing and workforce optimization efforts, to maintain a competitive cost structure and to integrate acquired businesses. Within our results of continuing operations, after-tax charges to fund restructuring-type activities declined approximately $200 million in 2011, and were slightly below our ongoing funding level of $300 million to $400 million, after tax. 
  Non-Operating Items 
  Interest expense decreased 12% in 2011 to $831 million due primarily to a reduction in interest rates on floating rate debt partially offset by an increase in debt outstanding.  In 2010, interest expense decreased 30% to $946 million due to a reduction in interest rates on floating rate debt and a reduction in debt outstanding. 
  Other non-operating income/(expense) primarily includes divestiture gains, interest and investment income and the provision for income attributable to noncontrolling interests. Other non-operating income/(expense) was a net benefit of $202 million in 2011 versus a net charge of $28 million in 2010.  This $230 million change was primarily due to the impact of gains on divestitures in the current year (Zest brand in North America and Infasil brand in Western Europe) and incremental costs in the prior year period associated with exercising the call option on an outstanding bond, partially offset by a gain due to the acquisition of MDVIP in the prior year period.  Other non-operating income/(expense) declined $425 million in 2010 to an expense of $28 million  

Management's Discussion and Analysis 
      
     The Procter   Gamble Company   39 

mainly due to divestiture gains in fiscal 2009, which included gains on the sale of Thermacare, Noxzema, Infusium and other minor brands, and incremental costs associated with exercising the call option on an outstanding bond in 2010.  
  Income Taxes 
  The effective tax rate on continuing operations decreased 500 basis points to 22.3%.  This was primarily driven by net  favorable discrete adjustments (primarily driven by favorable audit and litigation settlements for uncertain tax positions in multiple jurisdictions relating to prior periods), which drove 410 basis points of the effective tax rate difference.  Net adjustments to tax balances for uncertain tax positions in a number of jurisdictions resulted in a benefit of approximately $535 million in the current year, including a $252 million benefit from the settlement of U.S. tax litigation primarily related to the valuation of technology donations.  In 2010, net discrete adjustments resulted in a  charge of $86 million, including a $152 million charge for legislation which changed the taxation of certain future retiree prescription drug subsidy payments in the United States.  While there will likely be some level of benefits from discrete adjustments on an ongoing basis,  we do not expect the magnitude of the adjustments experienced  in fiscal 2011 to be sustainable.  The current year tax rate also benefited from the geographic mix of current year sales and earnings, which drove a 50-basis point reduction as an increased proportion of earnings were generated in foreign markets with lower tax rates versus the U.S. 
  In 2010, the effective tax rate on continuing operations increased 140 basis points to 27.3%. This was primarily due to a $152 million charge for legislation which changed the taxation of certain future retiree prescription drug subsidy payments in the United States, the non-deductibility of a $283 million charge for competition law fines and a lower level of net favorable adjustments to reserves for previously existing uncertain tax positions and foreign tax credits, partially offset by a more favorable geographic mix of earnings. During 2010, net adjustments to prior-year reserves balances for uncertain tax positions benefited the effective tax rate by 40 basis points versus a 130-basis point benefit in 2009.  
  Net Earnings 
  Net earnings from continuing operations were $11.8 billion in 2011, an increase of 8% versus the prior year due mainly to net sales growth and a lower effective tax rate, partially offset by operating margin contraction.  Operating margin decreased 110 basis points due to a decrease in gross margin, partially offset by a decrease in SG A spending as a percentage of net sales.  Gross margin declined behind higher commodity costs, partially offset by manufacturing cost savings.  SG A as a percentage of net sales declined due to reduced foreign currency exchange costs and a reduction in overhead spending as a percentage of net sales due to productivity improvements, partially offset by increased marketing investments.  Net earnings from continuing operations were $10.9 billion in 2010, an increase of 2% versus the prior year due mainly to net sales growth and operating margin expansion, partially offset by a higher effective tax rate.  Operating margin was up 30 basis points due to an increase in gross margin, mostly offset by an increase in SG A as a percentage of net sales.  
  Net earnings from discontinued operations decreased $1.8 billion in 2011 mainly due to the impact of the gain on the divestiture of the global pharmaceuticals business in the prior year.  In 2010, net earnings from discontinued operations, declined $1.0 billion to $1.8 billion due to the loss of contribution from the pharmaceuticals business divested in October 2009 and coffee business divested in November 2008 and lower gains on the sale of discontinued operations.  The gains on the sale of the global pharmaceuticals business in fiscal 2010 were $1.6 billion versus a $2.0 billion gain on the sale of the coffee business in fiscal 2009. 
  Diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations in 2011 increased 11% to $3.93 behind higher net earnings from continuing operations and the reduction in shares outstanding. Diluted net earnings per share from discontinued operations declined $0.58.  Diluted net earnings per share declined 4% to $3.93 driven by lower net earnings from discontinued operations, partially offset by higher net earnings from continuing operations and a reduction in weighted average shares outstanding resulting from share repurchase activity.  The reduction in the number of shares outstanding was driven by treasury share repurchases of $7.0 billion, nearly all of which were made under our publicly announced share repurchase program. 
  Diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations in 2010 increased 4% to $3.53 behind higher net earnings from continuing operations and the reduction in shares outstanding. Diluted net earnings per share from discontinued operations declined $0.29 to $0.58.  Diluted net earnings per share declined 4% to $4.11 driven by lower net earnings from discontinued operations, partially offset by higher net earnings from continuing operations and a reduction in weighted average shares outstanding.  The reduction in the number of shares outstanding was driven by treasury share repurchases of $6.0 billion, nearly all of which were made under our publicly announced share repurchase program. 

Core EPS increased 8% to $3.95 in 2011. Core EPS represents diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations excluding a current-year benefit from the settlement of U.S. tax litigation primarily related to the valuation of technology donations, charges in both 2011 and 2010 for competition law fines and charges in 2010 for legislation which changed the taxation of certain future retiree prescription drug subsidy payments in the United States.  Core EPS grew 6% in 2010 to $3.67. 

40   The Procter   Gamble Company 
      
    Management's Discussion and Analysis 

Venezuela Currency Impacts 
  Venezuela was determined to be a highly inflationary economy under U.S. GAAP during fiscal 2010. As a result, the U.S. dollar is now the functional currency for our subsidiaries in Venezuela. Any currency remeasurement adjustments for non-dollar denominated monetary assets and liabilities held by these subsidiaries and other transactional foreign exchange gains and losses are reflected in earnings.  Also during fiscal 2010, the Venezuelan government devalued the Bolivar Fuerte relative to the U.S. dollar.  The remeasurement of our local balance sheets in fiscal 2010 did not materially impact our results.  This was due to the relatively small non-dollar denominated net monetary asset position in Venezuela. 
  The Venezuelan government introduced a number of currency controls for companies operating in Venezuela. During calendar year 2010, there were two official exchange rates for imported goods. Those goods classified as essential, such as food, medicine and capital investments, had an exchange rate of 2.6 bolivars to the U.S. dollar, while payments for other non-essential goods had an exchange rate of 4.3. Many of our imported products fell into the essential classification and qualified for the 2.6 rate. In January 2011, the Venezuelan government announced the elimination of the 2.6 exchange rate on essential goods, resulting in the application of the 4.3 rate to all qualifying goods. Our overall results in Venezuela are reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements at the 4.3 rate, which is also expected to be applicable to dividend repatriations. 
  There are also exchange controls over securities transactions in what was the parallel market, which has historically been used to pay for imported goods and services that do not qualify for exchange in the official market and is now controlled by authorities. The Central Bank of Venezuela is now the only legal intermediary to execute foreign exchange transactions outside of CADIVI (4.3 rate) through the SITME rate which was approximately 5.3 as of June 30, 2011. The notional amount of transactions that run through this foreign exchange rate for non-essential goods is restrictive, which for us has essentially eliminated our ability to access any foreign exchange rate other than the CADIVI (4.3) rate to pay for imported goods and/or manage our local monetary asset balances. 
    
  As of June 30, 2011, we had net monetary assets denominated in local currency of approximately $798 million. Approximately $347 million of this balance has been remeasured using the parallel rate because we plan to use that amount of the net assets (largely cash) to satisfy U.S. dollar denominated liabilities that do not qualify for official rate dollars. The availability of the parallel market to settle these transactions is uncertain. The remaining net monetary asset balances are currently reflected within our Consolidated Financial Statements at the 4.3 official exchange rate. Depending on the future availability of U.S. dollars at the official rate, our local U.S. dollar needs, our overall repatriation plans and the creditworthiness of the local depository institutions and other creditors, we have exposure for our local monetary assets.  We also have devaluation exposure for the differential between the current and potential future official and parallel exchange rates on the portion of our local monetary assets reflected at the 4.3 official exchange rate. 
    
  Our ability to effectively manage sales and profit levels in Venezuela will be impacted by several factors, including the Company's ability to mitigate the effect of any potential future devaluation, further actions of the Venezuelan government, economic conditions in Venezuela, such as inflation and consumer spending, the availability of raw materials, utilities and energy and the future state of exchange controls in Venezuela including the availability of U.S. dollars at the official foreign exchange rate. 
    
    SEGMENT RESULTS 
  Results for the segments reflect information on the same basis we use for internal management reporting and performance evaluation.  The results of these reportable business segments do not include certain non-business unit specific costs such as interest expense, investing activities and certain restructuring costs. These costs are reported in our Corporate segment and are included as part of our Corporate segment discussion. Additionally, as described in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we have investments in certain companies over which we exert significant influence, but do not control the financial and operating decisions and, therefore, do not consolidate these companies for U.S. GAAP purposes ("unconsolidated entities"). Given that certain of these investments are managed as integral parts of the Company's business units, they are accounted for as if they were consolidated subsidiaries for management and segment reporting purposes. This means pre-tax earnings in the business units include 100% of each pre-tax income statement component. In determining after-tax earnings in the business units, we eliminate the share of earnings applicable to other ownership interests, in a manner similar to noncontrolling interest, and apply the statutory tax rates. Eliminations to adjust each line item to U.S. GAAP are included in our Corporate segment.  All references to net earnings throughout the discussion of segment results refer to net earnings from continuing operations. 

Management's Discussion and Analysis 
      
     The Procter   Gamble Company   41 

Net sales percentage changes are approximations based on quantitative formulas that are consistently applied. 
    
  BEAUTY 

Beauty net sales increased 3% to $20.2 billion on unit volume growth of 4%. Organic sales also grew 3%.  Mix negatively impacted net sales by 2% behind disproportionate growth in developing regions, which have lower than segment average selling prices, and declines in the premium-priced Prestige Products and Salon Professional categories.  Favorable foreign exchange positively impacted net sales growth by 1%.  Volume in developing regions increased double digits, while volume in developed regions declined low single digits.  Volume in Retail Hair Care grew mid-single digits behind growth in all regions except North America.  Developing regions grew double digits behind initiative activity on Pantene, Head   Shoulders and Rejoice, distribution expansions and market growth, which were partially offset by a mid-single-digit decline in North America due to competitive activity.  Global market share of the hair care category was up slightly.  Volume in Female Beauty was up low single digits primarily due to higher shipments of Olay, Venus and Safeguard behind initiative activity, and distribution expansion and market growth in developing markets. Volume in Salon Professional was down high single digits mainly due to the planned exit of non-strategic businesses and market size contractions in developed regions.  Volume in Prestige Products declined low single digits primarily due to the divestiture of minor brands and lower shipments in Western Europe.  Excluding the minor brand divestitures, volume increased low single digits due to growth of Dolce   Gabanna and Gucci fragrance brands behind initiative activity.   
  Net earnings decreased 1% in 2011 to $2.7 billion, as higher net sales were more than offset by a 60-basis point decrease in net earnings margin.  Net earnings margin decreased due to gross margin contraction and higher SG A as a percentage of net sales.  Gross margin decreased primarily due to an increase in commodity costs, partially offset by manufacturing cost savings and pricing.  SG A as a percentage of net sales increased due to higher marketing spending, partially offset by lower overhead spending as a percentage of net sales and reduced foreign currency exchange costs.     
  Net sales increased 3% in 2010 to $19.5 billion on unit volume growth of 3%. Price increases added 1% to net sales growth as earlier price increases taken in developing regions to offset currency devaluations more than offset price reductions in Hair Care. Unfavorable geographic mix reduced net sales 1% due to disproportionate growth in developing regions, which have lower than segment average selling prices. Organic sales were up 3% on a 4% increase in organic volume. Volume growth was driven by high single-digit growth in developing regions, with developed region volume in line with the prior year. Hair Care volume grew mid-single digits behind growth of Pantene, Head   Shoulders and Rejoice primarily in Asia and Latin America. Global share of the hair care market was in line with 2009. Female Beauty volume was up low single digits as higher shipments of female skin care and personal cleansing products in developing regions were partially offset by the discontinuation of Max Factor in North America, the fiscal 2009 divestiture of Noxzema and volume share losses on non-strategic personal cleansing brands in developed regions. Salon Professional volume was down double digits mainly due to the exit of non-strategic businesses and continued market contractions. Prestige volume declined low single digits due to continued contraction of the fragrance market. 
    
  Net earnings increased 2% in 2010 to $2.7 billion driven by net sales growth, partially offset by a 20-basis point reduction in net earnings margin. Net earnings margin declined due to higher SG A as a percentage of net sales, the impact of divestiture gains in the prior year and a higher tax rate, partially offset by gross margin expansion. SG A as a percentage of net sales was up due to increased marketing spending and higher foreign currency exchange costs. The tax rate increase was due to a shift in the geographic mix of earnings to countries with higher statutory tax rates. Gross margin expansion was driven primarily by price increases and manufacturing costs savings. 
  GROOMING 

42   The Procter   Gamble Company 
      
    Management's Discussion and Analysis 

Grooming net sales increased 5% to $8.0 billion on volume growth of 3%. Organic sales were up 5%. Price increases, taken primarily across blades and razors in Latin America and developed regions, contributed 2% to net sales growth.  Volume grew high single digits in developing regions and decreased low single digits in developed regions. Volume in Male Grooming was up low single digits due to higher shipments of blades and razors, mainly in developing regions driven by market growth, and deodorants in North America, partially offset by reduced volume in blades and razors in the developed regions.  Gillette Fusion shipments increased double digits behind the continued expansion and success of Fusion ProGlide; while Mach3 shipments increased low single digits due to growth in developing regions, partially offset by decreases in developed markets.   Global market share of the blades and razors category was down about half a point. Volume in Appliances decreased low single digits due to competitive activity and a shift from low-tier, high volume products to higher-tier product offerings.  Global market share of the dry shave category was down half a point.   
  Net earnings increased 10% to $1.6 billion behind higher net sales and a 100 basis point increase in net earnings margin.  Net earnings margin increased due to gross margin expansion, a lower effective tax rate and a decrease in SG A as a percentage of net sales.  Gross margin increased due to price increases, the favorable impact of volume scale leverage and manufacturing cost savings.  The tax rate decrease was due to a shift in the geographic mix of earnings to countries with lower statutory tax rates.  SG A as a percentage of net sales was down due to lower foreign currency exchange costs and lower overhead spending as a percentage of net sales due to sales leverage, partially offset by higher marketing spending.  
  Net sales increased 3% to $7.6 billion in 2010 on a 1% increase in unit volume. Price increases, taken primarily in developing regions to offset currency devaluations and across blades and razors, added 4% to net sales. Product mix had a negative 2% impact on net sales due mainly to disproportionate growth in developing regions and of disposable razors, both of which have lower than segment average selling prices. Organic sales grew 3%. Volume in developing regions increased low single digits, while volume in developed regions was in line with the prior year. Volume in Male Grooming was up low single digits mainly due to growth of disposable razors in developing regions. Mach3 shipments declined high single digits, while Gillette Fusion shipments increased double digits behind the launch of the new Fusion ProGlide. Global market share of the blades and razors category was down about half a point versus the prior year. Volume in Appliances was down low single digits behind a mid-single-digit decline in developing regions, due mostly to market contractions and volume share losses in home and hair care appliances. Global value share of the dry shaving market was up half a point. 
  Net earnings increased 9% to $1.5 billion in 2010 behind sales growth and net earnings margin expansion. Net earnings margin increased 100-basis points driven by gross margin expansion and a lower tax rate, partially offset by higher SG A as a percentage of net sales. Gross margin increased mainly due to price increases and manufacturing cost savings. The reduction in the tax rate was mainly due to a shift in the geographic mix of earnings to developing regions which generally have lower statutory tax rates. The increase in SG A as a percentage of net sales was driven by higher marketing spending and incremental foreign currency exchange costs, partially offset by lower overhead spending as a percentage of net sales. 
    
  HEALTH CARE    

Health Care net sales increased 5% to $12.0 billion on 5% growth in unit volume. Organic sales were up 5%.  Volume increased high single digits in developing regions and low single digits in developed regions.  Volume in Oral Care grew mid-single digits behind initiative activity and incremental merchandising support of Crest and Oral-B. Global market share of the oral care category was up over half a point.  Volume in Personal Health Care grew low single digits behind higher shipments of Vicks in North America and the developing regions, partially offset by continuing decline of Prilosec OTC in North America due to competitive activity.  All-outlet value share of the U.S. personal health care market increased about half a point.  Volume in Feminine Care was up mid-single digits mainly due to higher shipments of Naturella, behind expansion into developing regions, and Always, behind initiative activity in developing regions.  Global market share of the feminine care category was down less than half a point.  
    
  Net earnings decreased 3% to $1.8 billion as higher net sales were more than offset by a 130-basis point decrease in net earnings margin.  Net earnings margin decreased due to lower gross margin, higher SG A as a percentage of net sales and a higher effective tax rate.  Gross margin declined due to higher commodity costs and unfavorable mix due to disproportionate growth in developing regions, partially offset by manufacturing cost savings.  SG A as a percentage of net sales increased behind higher marketing spending to support growth, partially offset by lower foreign currency exchange costs.  The tax rate increase was due to a shift in the geographic mix of earnings to countries with higher statutory tax rates.  
    
  In July 2011, P G and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. reached a definitive agreement to create a partnership in consumer health care by bringing together both companies' existing over-the-counter medicine businesses and complementary capabilities.  The partnership is expected to have over $1.0 billion in annual sales, only a portion of which will be incremental to our Consolidated Financial Statements.  The Company expects the transaction to close by the end of the 2011 calendar year, pending necessary regulatory approvals.  
  Net sales increased 2% in 2010 to $11.5 billion on unit volume growth of 3%. Price increases, taken mainly in developing regions to offset currency devaluations, added 1% to net sales. Unfavorable mix reduced net sales by 2% mainly due to disproportionate growth in  

Management's Discussion and Analysis 
      
     The Procter   Gamble Company   43 

developing regions, which have lower than segment average selling prices. Organic sales increased 2%. Volume grew mid-single digits in developing regions and low single digits in developed regions. Oral Care volume grew mid-single digits behind initiative activity in Western Europe, Latin America and Asia. Personal Health Care volume was up low single digits behind higher shipments of Vicks and diagnostic products, partially offset by a continuing decline of Prilosec OTC in North America due to increased competitive activity. All-outlet value share of the U.S. personal health care market declined 1-share point, led by a 5-share point decline of Prilosec OTC's share of the upper stomach remedies segment. Feminine Care volume increased low single digits behind initiative-driven growth of Always and expansion of Naturella into China. Global market share of the feminine care category was down about half a point. 
  Net earnings increased 1% to $1.9 billion for 2010 on higher net sales, partially offset by a 10-basis point reduction in net earnings margin. Net earnings margin contracted due to higher SG A as a percentage of net sales, partially offset by higher gross margin. SG A as a percentage of net sales increased due to higher marketing and overhead spending and incremental foreign currency exchange costs. Gross margin grew behind price increases, lower commodity costs and manufacturing cost savings. 
  SNACKS AND PET CARE 

Snacks and Pet Care net sales increased 1% to $3.2 billion on a 1% increase in unit volume. Organic sales, which exclude the impacts of foreign exchange and the Natura acquisition, were down 5% on a 2% decline in organic volume.  Price decreases, through higher promotional spending, reduced net sales growth by 1%.  Favorable foreign exchange positively impacted net sales growth by 1%.  Snacks volume increased high single digits mainly due to increased distribution in CEEMEA and Latin America, as well as initiatives and incremental merchandising activity.  Global market share of the snacks category was up slightly.  Pet Care volume was down mid-single digits mainly due to the impacts of the recall of select dry pet food products and the supply constraints resulting from  restructuring the supply chain following the recalls, partially offset by the impact of the Natura acquisition in June 2010.  Excluding the Natura acquisition, Pet Care volume decreased double digits.  Global market share of the pet care category was down half a point. 
  Net earnings decreased 26% to $241 million as sales growth was more than offset by a 280-basis point decrease in net earnings margin.  Net earnings margin decreased due to operating margin contraction partially offset by a lower effective tax rate.  The operating margin reduction was driven by lower gross margin and increased SG A as a percentage of net sales.  Gross margin declined behind incremental costs and reduced scale leverage related to the pet food recall and supply chain restructuring efforts.  SG A as a percentage of net sales increased due to costs related to the select dry pet food products recall.  The tax rate decrease was due to a shift in the geographic mix of earnings to countries with lower statutory tax rates.   
  In April 2011, we announced plans to divest the Company's Snacks business through a merger with Diamond Foods, Inc. in an all-stock Reverse Morris Trust transaction.  The Snacks business had net sales of approximately $1.5 billion and operating income of approximately $200 million in fiscal 2011.  The Company expects the transaction to close by the end of the 2011 calendar year, pending necessary regulatory approvals.  
  Net sales increased 1% in 2010 to $3.1 billion on a 2% decline in unit volume. Price increases, taken primarily to offset prior-year commodity cost increases, added 3% to net sales. Favorable foreign exchange added 1% to net sales. Mix reduced net sales by 1% due to the discontinuation of certain premium snack products, which have higher than segment average selling prices, and higher shipments of large size pet products, which have lower than segment average selling prices. Organic sales were in line with the prior year. Volume in Snacks was down mid-single digits behind volume share losses driven by lower merchandising activity in North America and the discontinuation of certain premium snack products. Global market share of the snacks category was down half a point versus the prior year. Volume in Pet Care was up low single digits behind the continued success of product initiatives, increased marketing support and incremental merchandising activity. 
    
  Net earnings increased 39% to $326 million in 2010 driven by higher net sales and a 290-basis point increase in net earnings margin. Net earnings margin expanded due to higher gross margin and a lower tax rate, partially offset by higher SG A as a percentage of net sales. Gross margin expanded behind price increases, commodity cost declines and manufacturing cost savings. The tax rate declined due to a shift in the geographic mix of earnings to countries with lower statutory tax rates. SG A as a percentage of net sales increased due to higher marketing and overhead spending. 
    
     FABRIC CARE AND HOME CARE 

Fabric Care and Home Care net sales increased 4% to $24.8 billion on a 7% increase in unit volume. Organic sales were up 3%. Organic volume, which excludes the impact of the Ambi Pur acquisition, increased 5%.  Mix negatively impacted net sales growth by 2% due to disproportionate growth of mid-tier product lines and powdered laundry detergents, which have lower than segment average selling prices. Unfavorable foreign exchange reduced net sales by 1%. Volume in developing regions was up high single digits, while volume in developed regions grew mid-single digits. Fabric Care volume increased  

44   The Procter   Gamble Company 
      
    Management's Discussion and Analysis 

mid-single digits, led by high single-digit growth in developing regions behind initiative activity, increased distribution and market growth. Global market share of the fabric care category increased slightly.  Home Care volume increased double digits due, in part, to the Ambi Pur acquisition. Organic volume in Home Care was up high single digits driven mainly by initiative activity, including launches of Gain hand dishwashing liquid and Febreze Set   Refresh in North America, and geographic expansion of dish and air care product lines. Global market share of the home care category was up nearly 1 point.  Batteries volume grew mid-single digits primarily due to price reductions executed through pack count increases in North America, which were implemented in January 2010, initiative activity in Western Europe and market growth and distribution expansion in Asia.  Global market share of the batteries category increased more than half a point.  
  Net earnings decreased 10% to $3.0 billion as net sales growth was more than offset by a 190-basis point decrease in net earnings margin.  Net earnings margin decreased mainly due to gross margin contraction.  SG A as a percentage of net sales and the effective tax rate also increased.  Gross margin decreased mainly due to higher commodity costs and unfavorable product mix behind disproportionate growth of developing regions and mid-tier products, partially offset by manufacturing cost savings.  SG A as a percentage of net sales increased behind higher overhead spending to support growth.   The tax rate increased due to a shift in the geographic mix of earnings to countries with higher statutory tax rates. 
  Net sales increased 3% to $23.8 billion in 2010 on a 6% increase in unit volume. Pricing reduced net sales by 1% as the impact of price reductions to improve consumer value were partially offset by price increases taken primarily in developing regions to offset currency devaluations. Mix lowered net sales by 1% due mainly to unfavorable geographic mix and a shift toward larger size products, which have lower than segment average selling prices. Unfavorable foreign exchange reduced net sales by 1%. Organic sales grew 4%. Volume increased mid-single digits in both developed and developing regions. Fabric Care volume grew mid-single digits behind new product launches, price reductions and incremental merchandising activity. Global market share of the fabric care category was down about half a point.  Home Care volume was up high single digits mainly due to new product launches, media spending increases and market size expansion. Global market share of the home care category was up about half a point versus 2009. Batteries volume increased mid-single digits primarily due to growth in Greater China, price reductions to improve consumer value in North America and higher demand from business customers. 
  Net earnings increased 10% to $3.3 billion in 2010 due to higher net sales and a 90-basis point increase in net earnings margin. Net earnings margin increased due to higher gross margin and a lower tax rate, partially offset by an increase in SG A as a percentage of net sales. Gross margin increased mainly due to lower commodity costs and manufacturing cost savings, while SG A as a percentage of net sales increased due to higher marketing spending. The tax rate declined due to a shift in the geographic mix of earnings to countries with lower statutory tax rates. 
  BABY CARE AND FAMILY CARE 

Baby Care and Family Care net sales increased 6% to $15.6 billion on 8% volume growth. Organic sales were up 7%.  Mix reduced net sales by 2% driven mainly by disproportionate growth of mid-tier product lines, larger package sizes and developing regions, all of which have lower than segment average selling prices. Pricing added 1% to net sales growth primarily due to price increases executed in Baby Care to offset higher commodity costs and foreign exchange.  Unfavorable foreign exchange negatively impacted net sales by 1%. Volume grew double digits in developing regions and mid-single digits in developed regions. Volume in Baby Care was up high single digits primarily due to double-digit growth in developing regions behind initiative activity, market size growth and distribution expansion. Global market share of the baby care category increased over 1 point. Volume in Family Care increased high single digits driven by the continued impact of initiatives launched in prior periods, with high single-digit growth in North America.  In the U.S., all-outlet share of the family care category increased half a point.  
  Net earnings decreased 3% to $2.0 billion as sales growth was more than offset by a 120-basis point reduction in net earnings margin.  Net earnings margin declined mainly due to a lower gross margin, partially offset by a decrease in SG A as a percentage of net sales.  The reduction in gross margin was driven by higher commodity costs and unfavorable product mix, behind disproportionate growth of mid-tier product lines, larger package sizes and developing regions, which were only partially offset by the favorable impact of volume scale leverage and manufacturing cost savings.  SG A as a percentage of net sales declined due to lower foreign currency exchange costs.  
  Net sales grew 4% to $14.7 billion in 2010 on 7% volume growth. Pricing was in line with the prior year as the impact of price increases primarily taken in developing regions to offset local currency devaluations were offset by price reductions to improve consumer value. Negative mix reduced net sales by 2% driven mainly by disproportionate growth of mid-tier product lines, large count packs and developing regions, all of which have lower than segment average selling prices. Unfavorable foreign exchange reduced net sales by 1%. Organic sales increased 5%. Volume grew double digits in developing regions and mid-single digits in developed regions. Volume in Baby Care increased high single digits behind incremental initiative activity, market size expansion and price reductions to improve consumer value, primarily in CEEMEA. Global share of the baby care market was up over half a point. Volume in Family Care grew high single digits due to increased merchandising and initiative activity, market growth and price reductions to improve consumer value. 

Management's Discussion and Analysis 
      
     The Procter   Gamble Company   45 

Net earnings increased 16% to $2.0 billion in 2010 behind net sales growth and 140 basis points of net earnings margin expansion driven by higher gross margin, partially offset by higher SG A as a percentage of net sales. Gross margin increased mainly due to lower commodity costs and manufacturing cost savings. SG A as a percentage of net sales increased primarily behind incremental marketing investments and higher foreign currency exchange costs. 
  Corporate 
  Corporate includes certain operating and non-operating activities not allocated to specific business units. These include: the incidental businesses managed at the corporate level; financing and investing activities; other general corporate items; the historical results of certain divested brands and categories; and certain restructuring-type activities to maintain a competitive cost structure, including manufacturing and workforce optimization. Corporate also includes reconciling items to adjust the accounting policies used in the segments to U.S. GAAP. The most significant reconciling items include income taxes (to adjust from statutory rates that are reflected in the segments to the overall Company effective tax rate), adjustments for unconsolidated entities (to eliminate net sales, cost of products sold and SG A for entities that are consolidated in the segments but accounted for using the equity method for U.S. GAAP) and noncontrolling interest adjustments for subsidiaries where we do not have 100% ownership. Since certain unconsolidated entities and less than 100%-owned subsidiaries are managed as integral parts of the Company, they are accounted for similar to a wholly-owned subsidiary for management and segment purposes. This means our segment results recognize 100% of each income statement component through before-tax earnings in the segments, with eliminations for unconsolidated entities and noncontrolling interests in Corporate. In determining segment net earnings, we apply the statutory tax rates (with adjustments to arrive at the Company's effective tax rate in Corporate) and eliminate the share of earnings applicable to other ownership interests, in a manner similar to noncontrolling interest. 
  Corporate net sales primarily reflect the adjustment to eliminate the sales of unconsolidated entities included in business segment results. Accordingly, Corporate net sales are generally a negative balance. In 2011, negative net sales in Corporate were down $98 million due to adjustments required to eliminate sales of unconsolidated entities.  Net income from continuing operations increased $1.3 billion to $456 million. The increase was due to current-period net discrete adjustments to reverse reserves for uncertain tax positions, prior-period charges for the taxation of certain future retiree prescription drug subsidy payments in the U.S., lower current-period interest expense, a reduction in restructuring-type charges and current-year divestiture gains.  Additional discussion of the items impacting net income in Corporate are included in the Results of Operations section. 
  In 2010, negative net sales in Corporate were up 2% mainly due to adjustments required to eliminate sales of unconsolidated entities. Net expenses from continuing operations increased $603 million to $817 million. The increase was primarily due to 2010 charges for competition law fines and for enacted legislation impacting the taxation of certain future retiree prescription drug subsidy payments in the U.S. and the impact of higher prior-period divestiture gains and tax audit settlements. These impacts were partially offset by lower interest expense and restructuring charges in 2010.  
    FINANCIAL CONDITION 
  We believe our financial condition continues to be of high quality, as evidenced by our ability to generate substantial cash from operations and ready access to capital markets at competitive rates. 
  Operating cash flow provides the primary source of funds to finance operating needs and capital expenditures. Excess operating cash is used first to fund shareholder dividends. Other discretionary uses include share repurchases and tack-on acquisitions to complement our portfolio of brands and geographies. As necessary, we may supplement operating cash flow with debt to fund these activities. The overall cash position of the Company reflects our strong business results and a global cash management strategy that takes into account liquidity management, economic factors and tax considerations. 
  Operating Activities 
  Operating cash flow was $13.2 billion in 2011, an 18% decrease versus the prior year.  Operating cash flow resulted primarily from net earnings adjusted for non-cash items (depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, deferred income taxes and gain on the sale of businesses), partially offset by an increase in working capital.  The net of accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable consumed $569 million of operating cash flow in 2011 mainly due to increases in inventories and accounts receivables.  Inventory consumed $501 million driven by higher commodity costs, business growth and increased  stock levels in advance of initiatives and sourcing changes.  Inventory days on hand increased by five days due to the impact of foreign exchange, higher commodity costs and increased safety stock levels.  Accounts receivable used $426 million primarily to support business growth.  Accounts receivable days sales outstanding were up three days due to timing of sales and the impact of foreign exchange.  Inventory and accounts receivable increases were partially offset by accounts payable, accrued and other liabilities, which increased to support business growth.  Other operating assets and liabilities were also a significant use of operating cash flow due primarily to net reductions in reserves for uncertain tax positions and an increase in the amount of value added taxes due from various governmental authorities.  In the prior year, working capital was a net source of cash.   
    
  Operating cash flow was $16.1 billion in 2010, an 8% increase versus the prior year. Operating cash flow resulted primarily from net earnings adjusted for non-cash items (depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, deferred income taxes and gain on the sale of businesses) and a reduction in working capital. The increase in operating cash flow versus 2009 was primarily due to the 2010 reduction in working capital balances, partially offset by a decline in earnings versus 2009. The net of accounts receivable, inventory, and accounts payable contributed $2.5 billion to operating cash flow in  

46   The Procter   Gamble Company 
      
    Management's Discussion and Analysis 

2010 mainly due to an increase in accounts payable, accrued and other liabilities. Accounts payable, accrued and other liabilities increased primarily due to increased expenditures to support business growth, primarily related to the increased marketing investments. Accounts receivable days were down year over year due mainly to the global pharmaceuticals divestiture and improved collection efforts. Inventory contributed to operating cash flow despite growth in the business from a reduction in days on hand primarily due to inventory management improvement efforts. Cash flow from discontinued operations contributed $285 million to operating cash flow. 
  Free Cash Flow.   We view free cash flow as an important measure because it is one factor impacting the amount of cash available for dividends and discretionary investment. It is defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures and is one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and determine their at-risk compensation. Free cash flow was $9.9 billion in 2011, a decrease of 24% versus the prior year.  Free cash flow decreased due to lower operating cash flow and higher capital spending.  Free cash flow productivity, defined as the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings, was 84% in 2011.  
  In 2010, free cash flow was $13.0 billion an increase of 11% versus the prior year. Free cash flow increased due to higher operating cash flow and lower capital spending. Free cash flow productivity was 102% in 2010. This included a negative 23% impact resulting from the global pharmaceuticals divestiture, which increased net earnings and lowered operating cash flow due to tax payments on the divestiture gain. 
  
  Investing Activities 
  Net investing activities consumed $3.5 billion of cash in 2011 and $597 million in 2010 mainly due to capital spending and acquisitions, partially offset by proceeds from asset sales, including $3.0 billion in cash received from the sale of our global pharmaceuticals business in 2010.  
  Capital Spending.   We view capital spending efficiency as a critical component of our overall cash management strategy. We manage capital spending to support our business growth plans and have cost controls to deliver our cash generation targets.   Capital expenditures, primarily to support capacity expansion, innovation and cost savings, were $3.3 billion in 2011 and $3.1 billion in 2010. The increase in capital spending resulted primarily from capacity expansions.  Capital spending as a percentage of net sales increased 10 basis points to 4.0% in 2011.  Capital spending as a percentage of net sales decreased 30 basis points to 3.9% in 2010 behind the scale leverage of net sales growth and a reduction in capital spending.  

Acquisitions.   Acquisitions used $474 million of cash in 2011 primarily for the acquisition of Ambi Pur, an air freshener business.  In 2010, acquisitions used $425 million of cash primarily for the acquisition of Natura, a leading producer and distributor of branded premium natural pet foods.  
  Proceeds from Asset Sales.   Proceeds from asset sales contributed $225 million to cash in 2011 mainly due to the sale of our Infasil brand in Western Europe and Zest brand in North America.  In 2010, proceeds from asset sales contributed $3.1 billion to cash mainly due to the sale of our global pharmaceuticals business.  
    
  Financing Activities 
  Dividend Payments.   Our first discretionary use of cash is dividend payments. Dividends per common share increased 9% to $1.97 per share in 2011.  Total dividend payments to common and preferred shareholders were $5.8 billion in 2011 and $5.5 billion in 2010. The increase in dividend payments resulted from increases in our quarterly dividends per share, partially offset by a reduction in the number of shares outstanding. In April 2011, the Board of Directors declared an increase in our quarterly dividend from $0.4818 to $0.525 per share on Common Stock and Series A and B ESOP Convertible Class A Preferred Stock. This represents a 9% increase compared to the prior quarterly dividend and is the 55th consecutive year that our dividend has increased. We have paid a dividend in every year since our incorporation in 1890. 

Long-Term and Short-Term Debt.   We maintain debt levels we consider appropriate after evaluating a number of factors, including cash flow expectations, cash requirements for ongoing operations, investment and financing plans (including acquisitions and share repurchase activities) and the overall cost of capital. Total debt was $32.0 billion in 2011 and $29.8 billion in 2010.  Our total debt increased in 2011 mainly due to net debt issuances to fund general corporate purposes. 
  Treasury Purchases.   Total share repurchases were $7.0 billion in 2011 and $6.0 billion in 2010.   

Management's Discussion and Analysis 
      
     The Procter   Gamble Company   47 

Liquidity 
  Our current liabilities exceeded current assets by $5.3 billion, largely due to our commercial paper program.  We anticipate being able to support our short-term liquidity and operating needs largely through cash generated from operations.  We utilize short- and long-term debt to fund discretionary items such as acquisitions and share repurchases.  We have strong short- and long-term debt ratings which have enabled and should continue to enable us to refinance our debt as it becomes due at favorable rates in commercial paper and bond markets. In addition, we have agreements with a diverse group of financial institutions that, if needed, should provide sufficient credit funding to meet short-term financing requirements. 
  On June 30, 2011, our short-term credit ratings were P-1 (Moody's) and A-1+ (Standard   Poor's), while our long-term credit ratings are Aa3 (Moody's) and AA- (Standard   Poor's), both with a stable outlook. 
  We maintain bank credit facilities to support our ongoing commercial paper program. These facilities can be extended for certain periods of time as specified in, and in accordance with, the terms of each credit agreement. The current facility is an $11.0 billion facility split between a $7.0 billion 5-year facility and a $4.0 billion 364-day facility, which expire in August 2016 and August 2012, respectively.  We anticipate that these facilities will remain largely undrawn for the foreseeable future. These credit facilities do not have cross-default or ratings triggers, nor do they have material adverse events clauses, except at the time of signing. In addition to these credit facilities, we have an automatically effective registration statement on Form S-3 filed with the SEC that is available for registered offerings of short- or long-term debt securities. 
  Guarantees and Other Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
  We do not have guarantees or other off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including variable interest entities, which we believe could have a material impact on financial condition or liquidity. 
    
  Contractual Commitments 
  The following table provides information on the amount and payable date of our contractual commitments as of June 30, 2011. 

(1) 
    As of June 30, 2011, the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet reflects a liability for uncertain tax positions of $2.4 billion, including $555 million of interest and penalties. Due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash outflows of liabilities for uncertain tax positions beyond one year, a reasonable estimate of the period of cash settlement beyond twelve months from the balance sheet date of June 30, 2011 cannot be made. 
              (2) 
    Operating lease obligations are shown net of guaranteed sublease income. 
              (3) 
    Represents future pension payments to comply with local funding requirements. The projected payments beyond fiscal year 2014 are not currently determinable. 
              (4) 
    Primarily reflects future contractual payments under various take-or-pay arrangements entered into as part of the normal course of business. Commitments made under take-or-pay obligations represent future purchases in line with expected usage to obtain favorable pricing. Approximately 26% relates to service contracts for information technology, human resources management and facilities management activities that have been outsourced. While the amounts listed represent contractual obligations, we do not believe it is likely that the full contractual amount would be paid if the underlying contracts were canceled prior to maturity. In such cases, we generally are able to negotiate new contracts or cancellation penalties, resulting in a reduced payment. The amounts do not include obligations related to other contractual purchase obligations that are not take-or-pay arrangements. Such contractual purchase obligations are primarily purchase orders at fair value that are part of normal operations and are reflected in historical operating cash flow trends. We do not believe such purchase obligations will adversely affect our liquidity position. 

48   The Procter   Gamble Company 
      
    Management's Discussion and Analysis 

SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 
  In preparing our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, there are certain accounting policies that may require a choice between acceptable accounting methods or may require substantial judgment or estimation in their application. These include income taxes, certain employee benefits and acquisitions, goodwill and intangible assets. We believe these accounting policies, and others set forth in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, should be reviewed as they are integral to understanding the results of operations and financial condition of the Company. 
  The Company has discussed the selection of significant accounting policies and the effect of estimates with the Audit Committee of the Company's Board of Directors. 
  Income Taxes 
  Our annual tax rate is determined based on our income, statutory tax rates and the tax impacts of items treated differently for tax purposes than for financial reporting purposes. Tax law requires certain items be included in the tax return at different times than the items are reflected in the financial statements. Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in our tax return, and some differences are temporary, reversing over time, such as depreciation expense. These temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. 
  Deferred tax assets generally represent the tax effect of items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in future years for which we have already recorded the tax benefit in our income statement. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in our financial statements for which payment has been deferred, the tax effect of expenditures for which a deduction has already been taken in our tax return but has not yet been recognized in our financial statements or assets recorded at fair value in business combinations for which there was no corresponding tax basis adjustment. 
  Inherent in determining our annual tax rate are judgments regarding business plans, planning opportunities and expectations about future outcomes. Realization of certain deferred tax assets is dependent upon generating sufficient taxable income in the appropriate jurisdiction prior to the expiration of the carryforward periods. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that our deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, will be realized. 
  We operate in multiple jurisdictions with complex tax policy and regulatory environments. In certain of these jurisdictions, we may take tax positions that management believes are supportable, but are potentially subject to successful challenge by the applicable taxing authority. These interpretational differences with the respective governmental taxing authorities can be impacted by the local economic and fiscal environment. We evaluate our tax positions and establish liabilities in accordance with the applicable accounting guidance on uncertainty in income taxes. We review these tax uncertainties in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, and adjust them accordingly. We have a number of audits in process in various jurisdictions. Although the resolution of these tax positions is uncertain, based on currently available information, we believe that the ultimate outcomes will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 
  Because there are a number of estimates and assumptions inherent in calculating the various components of our tax provision, certain changes or future events such as changes in tax legislation, geographic mix of earnings, completion of tax audits or earnings repatriation plans could have an impact on those estimates and our effective tax rate. 
  Employee Benefits 
  We sponsor various post-employment benefits throughout the world. These include pension plans, both defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans, and other post-employment benefit (OPEB) plans, consisting primarily of health care and life insurance for retirees. For accounting purposes, the defined benefit pension and OPEB plans require assumptions to estimate the projected and accumulated benefit obligations, including the following variables: discount rate; expected salary increases; certain employee-related factors, such as turnover, retirement age and mortality; expected return on assets and health care cost trend rates. These and other assumptions affect the annual expense and obligations recognized for the underlying plans. Our assumptions reflect our historical experiences and management's best judgment regarding future expectations. As permitted by U.S. GAAP, the net amount by which actual results differ from our assumptions is deferred. If this net deferred amount exceeds 10% of the greater of plan assets or liabilities, a portion of the deferred amount is included in expense for the following year. The cost or benefit of plan changes, such as increasing or decreasing benefits for prior employee service (prior service cost), is deferred and included in expense on a straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of the employees expected to receive benefits. 
  The expected return on plan assets assumption impacts our defined benefit expense, since many of our defined benefit pension plans and our primary OPEB plan are funded. The process for setting the expected rates of return is described in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For 2011, the average return on assets assumptions for pension plan assets and OPEB assets were 7.0% and 9.2%, respectively. A change in the rate of return of 50 basis points for both pension and OPEB assets would impact annual after-tax benefit expense by less than $50 million. 
  Since pension and OPEB liabilities are measured on a discounted basis, the discount rate impacts our plan obligations and expenses. Discount rates used for our U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans are based on a yield curve constructed from a portfolio of high quality bonds for which the timing and amount of cash outflows approximate the estimated payouts of the plan. For our international plans, the discount rates are set by benchmarking against investment grade corporate bonds rated AA or better. The average discount rate on the defined benefit pension plans of 5.3% represents a weighted average of local rates in countries where such plans exist. A 50 basis point change in the discount rate would impact annual after-tax defined benefit pension  

Management's Discussion and Analysis 
      
     The Procter   Gamble Company   49 

expense by less than $60 million. The average discount rate on the OPEB plan of 5.7% reflects the higher interest rates generally applicable in the U.S., which is where a majority of the plan participants receive benefits. A 50 basis point change in the discount rate would impact annual after-tax OPEB expense by less than $35 million. 
  Acquisitions, Goodwill and Intangible Assets 
  We account for acquired businesses using the purchase method of accounting. Under the purchase method, our Consolidated Financial Statements reflect the operations of an acquired business starting from the completion of the acquisition. In addition, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed must be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective estimated fair values, with any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired recorded as goodwill. 
  Significant judgment is required in estimating the fair value of intangible assets and in assigning their respective useful lives. Accordingly, we typically obtain the assistance of third-party valuation specialists for significant items. The fair value estimates are based on available historical information and on future expectations and assumptions deemed reasonable by management, but are inherently uncertain. 
  We typically use an income method to estimate the fair value of intangible assets, which is based on forecasts of the expected future cash flows attributable to the respective assets. Significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the valuations reflect a consideration of other marketplace participants, and include the amount and timing of future cash flows (including expected growth rates and profitability), the underlying product or technology life cycles, economic barriers to entry, a brand's relative market position and the discount rate applied to the cash flows. Unanticipated market or macroeconomic events and circumstances may occur, which could affect the accuracy or validity of the estimates and assumptions. 
  Determining the useful life of an intangible asset also requires judgment. Certain brand intangibles are expected to have indefinite lives based on their history and our plans to continue to support and build the acquired brands. Other acquired intangible assets (e.g., certain trademarks or brands, customer relationships, patents and technologies) are expected to have determinable useful lives. Our assessment as to brands that have an indefinite life and those that have a determinable life is based on a number of factors including competitive environment, market share, brand history, underlying product life cycles, operating plans and the macroeconomic environment of the countries in which the brands are sold. Our estimates of the useful lives of determinable-lived intangibles are primarily based on these same factors. All of our acquired technology and customer-related intangibles are expected to have determinable useful lives. 
    
  The costs of determinable-lived intangibles are amortized to expense over their estimated life. The value of indefinite-lived intangible assets and residual goodwill is not amortized, but is tested at least annually for impairment. Our impairment testing for goodwill is performed separately from our impairment testing of indefinite-lived intangibles. We test goodwill for impairment by reviewing the book value compared to the fair value at the reportable unit level. We test individual indefinite-lived intangibles by reviewing the individual book values compared to the fair value. We determine the fair value of our reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets based on the income approach. Under the income approach, we calculate the fair value of our reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. Considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating and macroeconomic changes and to estimate future cash flows to measure fair value. Assumptions used in our impairment evaluations, such as forecasted growth rates and cost of capital, are consistent with internal projections and operating plans. We believe such assumptions and estimates are also comparable to those that would be used by other marketplace participants. When certain events or changes in operating conditions occur, indefinite-lived intangible assets may be reclassified to a determinable life asset and an additional impairment assessment may be performed. We did not recognize any material impairment charges for goodwill or intangible assets during the years presented. 
  Our annual impairment testing for both goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets indicated that all reporting unit and indefinite-lived intangible asset fair values exceeded their respective recorded values. However, future changes in the judgments, assumptions and estimates that are used in our impairment testing for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, including discount and tax rates or future cash flow projections, could result in significantly different estimates of the fair values. A significant reduction in the estimated fair values could result in impairment charges that could materially affect the financial statements in any given year. The recorded value of goodwill and intangible assets from recently acquired businesses are derived from more recent business operating plans and macroeconomic environmental conditions and therefore are more susceptible to an adverse change that could require an impairment charge. 
  For example, the Gillette intangible and goodwill amounts represent values as of a relatively more recent acquisition date, and as such, the amounts are more susceptible to an impairment risk if business operating results or macroeconomic conditions deteriorate. Gillette indefinite-lived intangible assets represent approximately 88% of the $27.8 billion of indefinite-lived intangible assets at June 30, 2011. Goodwill allocated to stand-alone reporting units consisting primarily of businesses purchased as part of the Gillette acquisition represents 42% of the $57.6 billion of goodwill at June 30, 2011. This includes the Male Grooming and Appliance businesses, which are components of the Grooming segment, and the Batteries business, which is part of the Fabric Care and Home Care segment. 
  With the exception of our Appliances and Salon Professional businesses, all of our other reporting units have fair values that significantly exceed recorded values. As noted above, the Appliances business was acquired as part of the Gillette acquisition and is a stand-alone goodwill reporting unit. The Salon Professional business, which consists primarily of operations acquired in the Wella acquisition, became a new stand-alone goodwill reporting unit as of July 1, 2009, coinciding  

50   The Procter   Gamble Company 
      
    Management's Discussion and Analysis 

with the organization change to the structure of the Beauty GBU. These businesses represent some of our more discretionary consumer spending categories. The Appliances business has goodwill of $1.6 billion, while the Salon Professional business has goodwill of $885 million. The estimated fair values of our Appliances and Salon Professional businesses exceed their carrying values by approximately 10% and 30%, respectively. Because purchases in these categories are more discretionary in nature, their operations and underlying fair values were disproportionately impacted by the economic downturn that began in fiscal 2009, which led to a reduction in home and personal grooming appliance purchases and in visits to hair salons. Our valuation of the Appliances and Salon Professional businesses has them returning to sales and earnings growth rates consistent with our long-term business plans. Failure to achieve these business plans or a further deterioration of the macroeconomic conditions could result in a valuation that would trigger an impairment of the goodwill and intangible assets of these businesses. 
  New Accounting Pronouncements 
  There were no new accounting pronouncements issued or effective during the fiscal year which have had or are expected to have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements. For a discussion of new accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
    OTHER INFORMATION 
  Hedging and Derivative Financial Instruments 
  As a multinational company with diverse product offerings, we are exposed to market risks, such as changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices. We evaluate exposures on a centralized basis to take advantage of natural exposure correlation and netting. Except within financing operations, we leverage the Company's broadly diversified portfolio of exposures as a natural hedge and prioritize operational hedging activities over financial market instruments. To the extent we choose to further manage volatility associated with the net exposures, we enter into various financial transactions which we account for using the applicable accounting guidance for derivative instruments and hedging activities. These financial transactions are governed by our policies covering acceptable counterparty exposure, instrument types and other hedging practices. Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements includes a detailed discussion of our accounting policies for financial instruments. 
    
  Derivative positions can be monitored using techniques including market valuation, sensitivity analysis and value-at-risk modeling. The tests for interest rate, currency rate and commodity derivative positions discussed below are based on the CorporateManager  value-at-risk model using a one-year horizon and a 95% confidence level. The model incorporates the impact of correlation (the degree to which exposures move together over time) and diversification (from holding multiple currency, commodity and interest rate instruments) and assumes that financial returns are normally distributed. Estimates of volatility and correlations of market factors are drawn from the RiskMetrics  dataset as of June 30, 2011. In cases where data is unavailable in RiskMetrics , a reasonable proxy is included. 
  Our market risk exposures relative to interest rates, currency rates and commodity prices, as discussed below, have not changed materially versus the previous reporting period. In addition, we are not aware of any facts or circumstances that would significantly impact such exposures in the near term. 
  Interest Rate Exposure on Financial Instruments.   Interest rate swaps are used to hedge exposures to interest rate movement on underlying debt obligations. Certain interest rate swaps denominated in foreign currencies are designated to hedge exposures to currency exchange rate movements on our investments in foreign operations. These currency interest rate swaps are designated as hedges of the Company's foreign net investments. 
  Based on our overall interest rate exposure as of and during the year ended June 30, 2011, including derivative and other instruments sensitive to interest rates, we believe a near-term change in interest rates, at a 95% confidence level based on historical interest rate movements, would not materially affect our financial statements. 
  Currency Rate Exposure on Financial Instruments.   Because we manufacture and sell products and finance operations in a number of countries throughout the world, we are exposed to the impact on revenue and expenses of movements in currency exchange rates. The primary purpose of our currency hedging activities is to manage the volatility associated with short-term changes in exchange rates. Corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. We primarily use forward contracts with maturities of less than 18 months. In addition, we enter into certain currency swaps with maturities of up to five years to hedge our exposure to exchange rate movements on intercompany financing transactions. 
  Based on our overall currency rate exposure as of and during the year ended June 30, 2011, we believe, at a 95% confidence level based on historical currency rate movements, the impact of a near-term change in currency rates on derivative and other instruments would not materially affect our financial statements. 
  Commodity Price Exposure on Financial Instruments.   We use raw materials that are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, political and economic variables and other unpredictable factors. In addition to fixed price contracts, we may use futures, options and swap contracts to manage the volatility related to the above exposures. 
  Based on our overall commodity price exposure as of and during the year ended June 30, 2011, we believe, at a 95% confidence level based on historical commodity price movements, the impact of a near-term change in commodity prices on derivative and other instruments would not materially affect our financial statements. 

Management's Discussion and Analysis 
      
     The Procter   Gamble Company   51 

Measures Not Defined By U.S. GAAP 
  Our discussion of financial results includes several "non-GAAP" financial measures. We believe these measures provide our investors with additional information about our underlying results and trends, as well as insight to some of the metrics used to evaluate management. When used in MD A, we have provided the comparable GAAP measure in the discussion. These measures include: 
  Organic Sales Growth.   Organic sales growth is a non-GAAP measure of sales growth excluding the impacts of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign exchange from year-over-year comparisons. We believe this provides investors with a more complete understanding of underlying sales trends by providing sales growth on a consistent basis. Organic sales is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation. 
  The following tables provide a numerical reconciliation of organic sales growth to reported net sales growth: 

*    Acquisition/Divestiture Impact includes rounding impacts necessary to reconcile net sales to organic sales. 

Core EPS.   This is a measure of the Company's diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations excluding certain items that are not judged to be part of the Company's sustainable results or trends.  This includes a significant benefit in 2011 from the settlement of U.S. tax litigation primarily related to the valuation of technology donations, charges in both 2011 and 2010 related to pending European legal matters, a 2010 charge related to a tax provision for retiree healthcare subsidy payments in the U.S. healthcare reform legislation, and incremental restructuring charges in 2009 to offset dilution caused by the Folgers divestiture. We do not view these items to be part of our sustainable results. We believe the Core EPS measure provides an important perspective of underlying business trends and results and provides a more comparable measure of year-on-year earnings per share growth. Core EPS is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation. The table below provides a reconciliation of reported diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations to Core EPS: 

Note - All reconciling items are presented net of tax. Tax effects are calculated consistent with the nature of the underlying transaction. The significant adjustment to an income tax reserve was tax expense. There was no tax impact on EPS due to the charges for pending European legal matters. 
  Free Cash Flow.   Free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital spending. We view free cash flow as an important measure because it is one factor in determining the amount of cash available for dividends and discretionary investment. Free cash flow is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation. 
  Free Cash Flow Productivity.   Free cash flow productivity is defined as the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings.  Free cash flow productivity is also one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and is a factor in determining their at-risk compensation. 
  The following table provides a numerical reconciliation of free cash flow and free cash flow productivity: 

52   The Procter   Gamble Company 

Consolidated Statements of Earnings 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The Procter   Gamble Company   53 

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

54   The Procter   Gamble Company 

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity 

(1) 
    Cumulative impact of adopting new accounting guidance relates to split-dollar life insurance arrangements. 
       
  See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The Procter   Gamble Company   55 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

56   The Procter   Gamble Company 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
    NOTE 1 
  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
  Nature of Operations 
  The Procter   Gamble Company's (the "Company," "we" or "us") business is focused on providing branded consumer packaged goods of superior quality and value. Our products are sold in more than 180 countries primarily through retail operations including mass merchandisers, grocery stores, membership club stores, drug stores, department stores, salons and high-frequency stores. We have on-the-ground operations in approximately 80 countries. 
  Basis of Presentation 
  The Consolidated Financial Statements include the Company and its controlled subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions are eliminated. 
  Use of Estimates 
  Preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying disclosures. These estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions the Company may undertake in the future. Estimates are used in accounting for, among other items, consumer and trade promotion accruals, pensions, post-employment benefits, stock options, valuation of acquired intangible assets, useful lives for depreciation and amortization of long-lived assets, future cash flows associated with impairment testing for goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets, deferred tax assets, uncertain income tax positions and contingencies. Actual results may ultimately differ from estimates, although management does not generally believe such differences would materially affect the financial statements in any individual year. However, in regard to ongoing impairment testing of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, significant deterioration in future cash flow projections or other assumptions used in valuation models, versus those anticipated at the time of the valuations, could result in impairment charges that may materially affect the financial statements in a given year. 
  Revenue Recognition 
  Sales are recognized when revenue is realized or realizable and has been earned. Revenue transactions represent sales of inventory. The revenue recorded is presented net of sales and other taxes we collect on behalf of governmental authorities. The revenue includes shipping and handling costs, which generally are included in the list price to the customer. Our policy is to recognize revenue when title to the product, ownership and risk of loss transfer to the customer, which can be on the date of shipment or the date of receipt by the customer. A provision for payment discounts and product return allowances is recorded as a reduction of sales in the same period that the revenue is recognized. 
  Trade promotions, consisting primarily of customer pricing allowances, merchandising funds and consumer coupons, are offered through various programs to customers and consumers. Sales are recorded net of trade promotion spending, which is recognized as incurred, generally at the time of the sale. Most of these arrangements have terms of approximately one year. Accruals for expected payouts under these programs are included as accrued marketing and promotion in the accrued and other liabilities line item in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
  Cost of Products Sold 
  Cost of products sold is primarily comprised of direct materials and supplies consumed in the manufacture of product, as well as manufacturing labor, depreciation expense and direct overhead expense necessary to acquire and convert the purchased materials and supplies into finished product. Cost of products sold also includes the cost to distribute products to customers, inbound freight costs, internal transfer costs, warehousing costs and other shipping and handling activity. 
  Selling, General and Administrative Expense 
  Selling, general and administrative expense (SG A) is primarily comprised of marketing expenses, selling expenses, research and development costs, administrative and other indirect overhead costs, depreciation and amortization expense on non-manufacturing assets and other miscellaneous operating items. Research and development costs are charged to expense as incurred and were   $2,001   in 2011,   $1,950   in 2010 and   $1,864   in 2009. Advertising costs, charged to expense as incurred, include worldwide television, print, radio, internet and in-store advertising expenses and were   $9,315   in 2011,   $8,576   in 2010 and   $7,519   in 2009. Non-advertising related components of the Company's total marketing spending include costs associated with consumer promotions, product sampling and sales aids, all of which are included in SG A, as well as coupons and customer trade funds, which are recorded as reductions to net sales. 
  Other Non-Operating Income/(Expense), Net 
  Other non-operating income/(expense), net, primarily includes net divestiture gains, interest and investment income and the provision for income attributable to noncontrolling interests. 
  Currency Translation 
  Financial statements of operating subsidiaries outside the United States of America (U.S.) generally are measured using the local currency as the functional currency. Adjustments to translate those statements into U.S. dollars are recorded in other comprehensive income (OCI). Currency translation adjustments in accumulated OCI were a gain of   $5,632   at June 30, 2011 and a loss of   $861   at June 30, 2010. For subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary economies, the U.S. dollar is the functional currency. Remeasurement adjustments for financial statements in highly inflationary economies and other transactional exchange gains and losses are reflected in earnings. 
               Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
      
     The Procter   Gamble Company   57 

Cash Flow Presentation 
  The Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows are prepared using the indirect method, which reconciles net earnings to cash flow from operating activities. The reconciliation adjustments include the removal of timing differences between the occurrence of operating receipts and payments and their recognition in net earnings. The adjustments also remove cash flows arising from investing and financing activities, which are presented separately from operating activities. Cash flows from foreign currency transactions and operations are translated at an average exchange rate for the period. Cash flows from hedging activities are included in the same category as the items being hedged. Cash flows from derivative instruments designated as net investment hedges are classified as financing activities. Realized gains and losses from non-qualifying derivative instruments used to hedge currency exposures resulting from intercompany financing transactions are also classified as financing activities. Cash flows from other derivative instruments used to manage interest, commodity or other currency exposures are classified as operating activities. Cash payments related to income taxes are classified as operating activities. 
  Cash Equivalents 
  Highly liquid investments with remaining stated maturities of three months or less when purchased are considered cash equivalents and recorded at cost. 
  Investments 
  Investment securities consist of readily marketable debt and equity securities. Unrealized gains or losses are charged to earnings for investments classified as trading. Unrealized gains or losses on securities classified as available-for-sale are generally recorded in shareholders' equity. If an available-for-sale security is other than temporarily impaired, the loss is charged to either earnings or shareholders' equity depending on our intent and ability to retain the security until we recover the full cost basis and the extent of the loss attributable to the creditworthiness of the issuer. Investments in certain companies over which we exert significant influence, but do not control the financial and operating decisions, are accounted for as equity method investments. Other investments that are not controlled, and over which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence, are accounted for under the cost method.  Both equity and cost method investments are included as other noncurrent assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
  Inventory Valuation 
  Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market value. Product-related inventories are primarily maintained on the first-in, first-out method. Minor amounts of product inventories, including certain cosmetics and commodities, are maintained on the last-in, first-out method. The cost of spare part inventories is maintained using the average cost method. 
  Property, Plant and Equipment 
  Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost reduced by accumulated depreciation. Depreciation expense is recognized over the assets' estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. Machinery and equipment includes office furniture and fixtures (15-year life), computer equipment and capitalized software (3- to 5-year lives) and manufacturing equipment (3- to 20-year lives). Buildings are depreciated over an estimated useful life of 40 years. Estimated useful lives are periodically reviewed and, when appropriate, changes are made prospectively. When certain events or changes in operating conditions occur, asset lives may be adjusted and an impairment assessment may be performed on the recoverability of the carrying amounts. 
  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
  Goodwill and indefinite-lived brands are not amortized, but are evaluated for impairment annually or when indicators of a potential impairment are present. Our impairment testing of goodwill is performed separately from our impairment testing of indefinite-lived intangibles. The annual evaluation for impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles is based on valuation models that incorporate assumptions and internal projections of expected future cash flows and operating plans. We believe such assumptions are also comparable to those that would be used by other marketplace participants. 
  We have acquired brands that have been determined to have indefinite lives due to the nature of our business. We evaluate a number of factors to determine whether an indefinite life is appropriate, including the competitive environment, market share, brand history, product life cycles, operating plans and the macroeconomic environment of the countries in which the brands are sold. When certain events or changes in operating conditions occur, an impairment assessment is performed and indefinite-lived brands may be adjusted to a determinable life. 
  The cost of intangible assets with determinable useful lives is amortized to reflect the pattern of economic benefits consumed, either on a straight-line or accelerated basis over the estimated periods benefited. Patents, technology and other intangibles with contractual terms are generally amortized over their respective legal or contractual lives. Customer relationships, brands and other non-contractual intangible assets with determinable lives are amortized over periods generally ranging from 5 to 30 years. When certain events or changes in operating conditions occur, an impairment assessment is performed and lives of intangible assets with determinable lives may be adjusted. 
    
  Fair Values of Financial Instruments 
  Certain financial instruments are required to be recorded at fair value. Changes in assumptions or estimation methods could affect the fair value estimates; however, we do not believe any such changes would have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Other financial instruments, including cash equivalents, other investments and short-term debt, are recorded at cost, which approximates fair value. The fair values of long-term debt and financial instruments are disclosed in Note 4 and Note 5, respectively. 
               Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 

58   The Procter   Gamble Company 
      
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

New Accounting Pronouncements and Policies 
  Other than as described below, no new accounting pronouncement issued or effective during the fiscal year has had or is expected to have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  DISCLOSURES ABOUT DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS 
  AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES 
  On January 1, 2009, we adopted new accounting guidance on disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities. The new guidance impacted disclosures only and requires additional qualitative and quantitative information on the use of derivatives and their impact on an entity's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Refer to Note 5 for additional information regarding our risk management activities, including derivative instruments and hedging activities. 
  BUSINESS COMBINATIONS 
  On July 1, 2009, we adopted new accounting guidance on business combinations. The new guidance revised the method of accounting for a number of aspects of business combinations including acquisition costs, contingencies (including contingent assets, contingent liabilities and contingent purchase price) and post-acquisition exit activities of acquired businesses. The adoption of the new guidance did not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 
  NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS IN 
  CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  On July 1, 2009, we adopted new accounting guidance on noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. The new accounting guidance requires that a noncontrolling interest in the equity of a subsidiary be accounted for and reported as equity, provides revised guidance on the treatment of net income and losses attributable to the noncontrolling interest and changes in ownership interests in a subsidiary and requires additional disclosures that identify and distinguish between the interests of the controlling and noncontrolling owners. The Company's retrospective adoption of the new guidance on July 1, 2009, did not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Net expense for income attributable to the noncontrolling interests totaling   $130   in 2011,   $110   in 2010 and   $86   in 2009 is not presented separately in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings due to immateriality, but is reflected within other non-operating income/(expense), net. After deduction of the net expense for income attributable to noncontrolling interests, net earnings represents net income attributable to the Company's common shareholders. 
    
    NOTE 2 
  GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
  The change in the net carrying amount of goodwill by reportable segment was as follows: 

The increase in goodwill during fiscal 2011 was primarily due to currency translation across all reportable segments and the acquisition of Ambi Pur in our Fabric Care and Home Care reportable segment.   The decrease in goodwill during fiscal 2010 was primarily due to currency translation across all reportable segments and the divestiture of the global pharmaceuticals business partially offset by the acquisitions of MDVIP, a physicians' network focused on preventative medicine, and Natura, a leading producer and distributor of branded premium natural pet foods. 
               Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
      
     The Procter   Gamble Company   59 

Identifiable intangible assets were comprised of: 

The amortization of intangible assets was as follows: 

Estimated amortization expense over the next five years is as follows: 

Such estimates do not reflect the impact of future foreign exchange rate changes. 
    NOTE 3 
  SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION 
  Selected components of current and noncurrent liabilities were as follows: 

NOTE 4 
  SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM DEBT    

(1) 
    Weighted average short-term interest rates include the effects of interest rate swaps discussed in Note 5. 

(1) 
    Debt issued by the ESOP is guaranteed by the Company and must be recorded as debt of the Company as discussed in Note 8. 
              (2) 
    Weighted average long-term interest rates include the effects of interest rate swaps and net investment hedges discussed in Note 5. 
     Long-term debt maturities during the next five years are as follows: 

The Procter   Gamble Company fully and unconditionally guarantees the registered debt and securities issued by its 100% owned finance subsidiaries. 
               Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 

60   The Procter   Gamble Company 
      
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

NOTE 5 
  RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES AND FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 
  As a multinational company with diverse product offerings, we are exposed to market risks, such as changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices. We evaluate exposures on a centralized basis to take advantage of natural exposure correlation and netting. To the extent we choose to manage volatility associated with the net exposures, we enter into various financial transactions which we account for using the applicable accounting guidance for derivative instruments and hedging activities. These financial transactions are governed by our policies covering acceptable counterparty exposure, instrument types and other hedging practices. 
  At inception, we formally designate and document qualifying instruments as hedges of underlying exposures. We formally assess, at inception and at least quarterly, whether the financial instruments used in hedging transactions are effective at offsetting changes in either the fair value or cash flows of the related underlying exposure. Fluctuations in the value of these instruments generally are offset by changes in the value or cash flows of the underlying exposures being hedged. This offset is driven by the high degree of effectiveness between the exposure being hedged and the hedging instrument. The ineffective portion of a change in the fair value of a qualifying instrument is immediately recognized in earnings. The amount of ineffectiveness recognized is immaterial for all years presented. 
  Credit Risk Management 
  We have counterparty credit guidelines and generally enter into transactions with investment grade financial institutions. Counterparty exposures are monitored daily and downgrades in counterparty credit ratings are reviewed on a timely basis. Credit risk arising from the inability of a counterparty to meet the terms of our financial instrument contracts generally is limited to the amounts, if any, by which the counterparty's obligations to us exceed our obligations to the counterparty. We have not incurred, and do not expect to incur, material credit losses on our risk management or other financial instruments. 
  Certain of the Company's financial instruments used in hedging transactions are governed by industry standard netting agreements with counterparties. If the Company's credit rating were to fall below the levels stipulated in the agreements, the counterparties could demand either collateralization or termination of the arrangement. The aggregate fair value of the instruments covered by these contractual features that are in a net liability position as of June 30, 2011, was   $143  . The Company has never been required to post collateral as a result of these contractual features. 
    
  Interest Rate Risk Management 
  Our policy is to manage interest cost using a mixture of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt. To manage this risk in a cost-efficient manner, we enter into interest rate swaps whereby we agree to exchange with the counterparty, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and variable interest amounts calculated by reference to a notional amount. 
  Interest rate swaps that meet specific accounting criteria are accounted for as fair value or cash flow hedges. For fair value hedges, the changes in the fair value of both the hedging instruments and the underlying debt obligations are immediately recognized in interest expense. For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the changes in fair value of the hedging instrument is reported in OCI and reclassified into interest expense over the life of the underlying debt. The ineffective portion for both cash flow and fair value hedges, which is not material for any year presented, is immediately recognized in earnings. 
  Foreign Currency Risk Management 
  We manufacture and sell our products and finance operations in a number of countries throughout the world and, as a result, are exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. The purpose of our foreign currency hedging program is to manage the volatility associated with short-term changes in exchange rates. 
  To manage this exchange rate risk, we have historically utilized a combination of forward contracts, options and currency swaps. As of June 30, 2011, we had currency swaps with maturities up to five years, which are intended to offset the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies. These swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The effective portion of the changes in fair value of these instruments is reported in OCI and reclassified into earnings in the same financial statement line item and in the same period or periods during which the related hedged transactions affect earnings. The ineffective portion, which is not material for any year presented, is immediately recognized in earnings. 
  The change in value of certain non-qualifying instruments used to manage foreign exchange exposure of intercompany financing transactions and certain balance sheet items subject to revaluation is immediately recognized in earnings, substantially offsetting the foreign currency mark-to-market impact of the related exposure. 
  Net Investment Hedging 
  We hedge certain net investment positions in foreign subsidiaries. To accomplish this, we either borrow directly in foreign currencies and designate all or a portion of foreign currency debt as a hedge of the applicable net investment position or enter into foreign currency swaps that are designated as hedges of our related foreign net investments. Changes in the fair value of these instruments are immediately recognized in OCI to offset the change in the value of the net investment being hedged. Currency effects of these hedges reflected in OCI were an after-tax loss of   $1,176   and an after-tax gain of   $789   in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Accumulated net balances were after-tax losses of   $4,446   and   $3,270   as of June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
               Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
      
     The Procter   Gamble Company   61 

Commodity Risk Management 
  Certain raw materials used in our products or production processes are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, political and economic variables and other unpredictable factors. To manage the volatility related to anticipated purchases of certain of these materials, we may, on a limited basis, use futures and options with maturities generally less than one year and swap contracts with maturities up to five years. These market instruments generally are designated as cash flow hedges. The effective portion of the changes in fair value for these instruments is reported in OCI and reclassified into earnings in the same financial statement line item and in the same period or periods during which the hedged transactions affect earnings. The ineffective and non-qualifying portions, which are not material for any year presented, are immediately recognized in earnings. 
  Insurance 
  We self-insure for most insurable risks. However, we purchase insurance for Directors and Officers Liability and certain other coverage in situations where it is required by law, by contract or deemed to be in the best interest of the Company. 
  Fair Value Hierarchy 
  Accounting guidance on fair value measurements for certain financial assets and liabilities requires that financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value be classified and disclosed in one of the following three categories: 
    
  Level 1:    Quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 
  Level 2:    Observable market-based inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data. 
  Level 3:    Unobservable inputs reflecting the reporting entity's own assumptions or external inputs from inactive markets. 
  When applying fair value principles in the valuation of assets and liabilities, we are required to maximize the use of quoted market prices and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. We calculate the fair value of our Level 1 and Level 2 instruments based on the exchange traded price of similar or identical instruments where available or based on other observable inputs. The fair value of our Level 3 instruments is calculated as the net present value of expected cash flows based on externally provided or obtained inputs. Certain Level 3 assets may also be based on sales prices of similar assets. Our fair value calculations take into consideration the credit risk of both the Company and our counterparties. The Company has not changed its valuation techniques used in measuring the fair value of any financial assets and liabilities during the year. 
    
  The following table sets forth the Company's financial assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2011 and 2010 that were measured at fair value on a recurring basis during the period, segregated by level within the fair value hierarchy: 

(1) 
    Other foreign currency instruments are comprised of foreign currency financial instruments that do not qualify as hedges. 
              (2) 
    Investment securities are presented in other noncurrent assets and all derivative assets are presented in prepaid expenses and other current assets or other noncurrent assets. 
              (3) 
    All liabilities are presented in accrued and other liabilities or other noncurrent liabilities. 
                  Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 

62   The Procter   Gamble Company 
      
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

The Company recognizes transfers between levels within the fair value hierarchy, if any, at the end of each quarter. There was no significant activity within the Level 3 financial assets and liabilities during the years presented. There were no significant assets or liabilities that were re-measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis during the years ended June 30, 2011 and 2010. 
    
  Disclosures about Derivative Instruments 
  The notional amounts and fair values of qualifying and non-qualifying financial instruments used in hedging transactions as of June 30, 2011 and 2010 are as follows: 

The total notional amount of contracts outstanding at the end of the period is indicative of the level of the Company's derivative activity during the period. 

The effective portion of gains and losses on derivative instruments that was recognized in other comprehensive income during the years ended June 30, 2011 and 2010 is not material. During the next 12 months, the amount of the June 30, 2011, accumulated OCI balance that will be reclassified to earnings is expected to be immaterial. 
  The amounts of gains and losses on qualifying and non-qualifying financial instruments used in hedging transactions for the years ended June 30, 2011 and 2010 are as follows: 

(1) 
    The gain or loss on the effective portion of cash flow hedging relationships is reclassified from accumulated OCI into net income in the same period during which the related item affects earnings. Such amounts are included in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings as follows: interest rate contracts in interest expense, foreign currency contracts in selling, general and administrative and interest expense, and commodity contracts in cost of products sold. 
              (2) 
    The gain or loss on the ineffective portion of interest rate contracts and net investment hedges, if any, is included in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings in interest expense. 
              (3) 
    The gain or loss on contracts not designated as hedging instruments is included in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings as follows: foreign currency contracts in selling, general and administrative expense and commodity contracts in cost of products sold. 
              (4) 
    The gain or loss on non-qualifying foreign currency contracts substantially offsets the foreign currency mark-to-market impact of the related exposure. 
                  Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
      
     The Procter   Gamble Company   63 

NOTE 6 
  EARNINGS PER SHARE 
  Net earnings less preferred dividends (net of related tax benefits) are divided by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year to calculate basic net earnings per common share. Diluted net earnings per common share are calculated to give effect to stock options and other stock-based awards (see Note 7) and assume conversion of preferred stock (see Note 8). 
  Net earnings and common shares used to calculate basic and diluted net earnings per share were as follows: 

(1) 
    Despite being included currently in diluted net earnings per common share, the actual conversion to common stock occurs pursuant to the repayment of the ESOPs' obligations through 2035. 
              (2) 
    Approximately   93 million    in 2011,   101 million   in 2010 and   92 million   in 2009 of the Company's outstanding stock options were not included in the diluted net earnings per share calculation because the options were out of the money or to do so would have been antidilutive (i.e., the total proceeds upon exercise would have exceeded the market value of the underlying common shares). 
         
  NOTE 7 
  STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION 
  We have stock-based compensation plans under which we annually grant stock option, restricted stock, restricted stock unit (RSU) and performance stock unit (PSU) awards to key managers and directors. Exercise prices on options granted have been, and continue to be, set equal to the market price of the underlying shares on the date of the grant. Since September 2002, the key manager stock option awards granted are vested after three years and have a   10  -year life. The key manager stock option awards granted from July 1998 through August 2002 vested after three years and have a   15  -year life. Key managers can elect to receive up to 50% of the value of their option award in RSUs. Key manager RSUs are vested and settled in shares of common stock five years from the grant date. The awards provided to the Company's directors are in the form of restricted stock and RSUs. In addition to our key manager and director grants, we make other minor stock option and RSU grants to employees for which the terms are not substantially different.  In 2011, we implemented a performance stock program (PSP) and granted PSUs to senior level executives.  Under this program, the number of PSUs that will vest three years after the respective grant date is based on the Company's performance relative to pre-established performance goals during that three year period. 
  A total of   180 million   shares of common stock were authorized for issuance under stock-based compensation plans approved by shareholders in 2003 and 2009. The number of shares available for award under the 2009 plan includes the shares previously authorized but not awarded under the shareholder approved plan in 2001 and the shares available for issuance under a plan approved by Gillette shareholders in 2004. A total of   122 million   shares remain available for grant under the 2003 and 2009 plans. 
  Total stock-based compensation expense for stock option grants was   $358  ,   $417   and   $460   for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Total compensation cost for restricted stock, RSUs and PSUs was   $56  ,   $36   and   $56   in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The total income tax benefit recognized in the income statement for stock options, restricted stock, RSUs and PSUs was   $117  ,   $118   and   $137   in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  
  In calculating the compensation expense for stock options granted, we utilize a binomial lattice-based valuation model. Assumptions utilized in the model, which are evaluated and revised, as necessary, to reflect market conditions and experience, were as follows: 

Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 

64   The Procter   Gamble Company 
      
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Lattice-based option valuation models incorporate ranges of assumptions for inputs and those ranges are disclosed in the preceding table. Expected volatilities are based on a combination of historical volatility of our stock and implied volatilities of call options on our stock. We use historical data to estimate option exercise and employee termination patterns within the valuation model. The expected life of options granted is derived from the output of the option valuation model and represents the average period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. The interest rate for periods within the contractual life of the options is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. 
  A summary of options outstanding under the plans as of June 30, 2011, and activity during the year then ended is presented below: 

The weighted average grant-date fair value of options granted was   $11.09  ,   $13.47   and   $11.67   per share in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised was   $628  ,   $342   and   $434   in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The total grant-date fair value of options that vested during 2011, 2010 and 2009 was   $445  ,   $563   and   $537  , respectively. We have no specific policy to repurchase common shares to mitigate the dilutive impact of options; however, we have historically made adequate discretionary purchases, based on cash availability, market trends and other factors, to satisfy stock option exercise activity. 
  At June 30, 2011, there was   $372   of compensation cost that has not yet been recognized related to stock option grants. That cost is expected to be recognized over a remaining weighted average period of   1.8   years.  At June 30, 2011, there was   $98   of compensation cost that has not yet been recognized related to restricted stock, RSUs and PSUs.  That cost is expected to be recognized over a remaining weighted average period of   3.0   years. 
  Cash received from options exercised was   $1,237  ,   $703   and   $639   in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from option exercises totaled   $188  ,   $89   and   $146   in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
    
    NOTE 8 
  POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS AND EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN 
  We offer various postretirement benefits to our employees. 
  Defined Contribution Retirement Plans 
  We have defined contribution plans which cover the majority of our U.S. employees, as well as employees in certain other countries. These plans are fully funded. We generally make contributions to participants' accounts based on individual base salaries and years of service. Total global defined contribution expense was   $347  ,   $344   and   $364   in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  The primary U.S. defined contribution plan (the U.S. DC plan) comprises the majority of the balances and expense for the Company's defined contribution plans. For the U.S. DC plan, the contribution rate is set annually. Total contributions for this plan approximated   15%   of total participants' annual wages and salaries in 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
  We maintain The Procter   Gamble Profit Sharing Trust (Trust) and Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) to provide a portion of the funding for the U.S. DC plan and other retiree benefits. Operating details of the ESOP are provided at the end of this Note. The fair value of the ESOP Series A shares allocated to participants reduces our cash contribution required to fund the U.S. DC plan. 
  Defined Benefit Retirement Plans and Other Retiree Benefits 
  We offer defined benefit retirement pension plans to certain employees. These benefits relate primarily to local plans outside the U.S. and, to a lesser extent, plans assumed in previous acquisitions covering U.S. employees. 
  We also provide certain other retiree benefits, primarily health care and life insurance, for the majority of our U.S. employees who become eligible for these benefits when they meet minimum age and service requirements. Generally, the health care plans require cost sharing with retirees and pay a stated percentage of expenses, reduced by deductibles and other coverages. These benefits are primarily funded by ESOP Series B shares and certain other assets contributed by the Company. 
               Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
      
     The Procter   Gamble Company   65 

Obligation and Funded Status  .   The following provides a reconciliation of benefit obligations, plan assets and funded status of these defined benefit plans: 

(1) 
    Primarily non-U.S.-based defined benefit retirement plans. 
              (2) 
    Primarily U.S.-based other postretirement benefit plans. 
              (3) 
    For the pension benefit plans, the benefit obligation is the projected benefit obligation. For other retiree benefit plans, the benefit obligation is the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation. 
              (4) 
    Represents the net impact of ESOP debt service requirements, which is netted against plan assets for other retiree benefits. 

The underfunding of pension benefits is primarily a function of the different funding incentives that exist outside of the U.S. In certain countries, there are no legal requirements or financial incentives provided to companies to pre-fund pension obligations prior to their due date. In these instances, benefit payments are typically paid directly from the Company's cash as they become due.    

Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 

66   The Procter   Gamble Company 
      
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit retirement pension plans was   $10,436   and   $9,708   as of June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets and plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets consist of the following: 

Net Periodic Benefit Cost  .   Components of the net periodic benefit cost were as follows:    

Amounts expected to be amortized from accumulated OCI into net periodic benefit cost during the year ending June 30, 2012, are as follows: 

Assumptions  .   We determine our actuarial assumptions on an annual basis. These assumptions are weighted to reflect each country that may have an impact on the cost of providing retirement benefits. The weighted average assumptions for the defined benefit and other retiree benefit calculations, as well as assumed health care trend rates, were as follows: 

(1) 
    Determined as of end of year. 
              (2) 
    Determined as of beginning of year and adjusted for acquisitions. 
     Several factors are considered in developing the estimate for the long-term expected rate of return on plan assets. For the defined benefit retirement plans, these factors include historical rates of return of broad equity and bond indices and projected long-term rates of return obtained from pension investment consultants. The expected long-term rates of return for plan assets are   8   -   9%   for equities and   5   -   6%   for bonds. For other retiree benefit plans, the expected long-term rate of return reflects the fact that the assets are comprised primarily of Company stock. The expected rate of return on Company stock is based on the long-term projected return of   9.5%   and reflects the historical pattern of favorable returns. 
  Assumed health care cost trend rates could have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the other retiree benefit plans. A one- percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects: 
                               
    One-Percentage 
  Point Increase 
      
    One-Percentage 
  Point Decrease 
      Effect on total of service and interest cost components 
    $ 
    79 

$ 
    (61 
    ) 
      Effect on postretirement benefit obligation 
    681 

(547 
    ) 

Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
      
     The Procter   Gamble Company   67 

Plan Assets  .   Our target asset allocation for the year ended June 30, 2011, and actual asset allocation by asset category as of June 30, 2011 and 2010, were as follows: 

The following table sets forth the fair value of the Company's plan assets as of June 30, 2011 segregated by level within the fair value hierarchy (refer to Note 5 for further discussion on the fair value hierarchy and fair value principles): 

There was no significant activity within the Level 3 pension and other retiree benefits plan assets during the years presented. 
  Our investment objective for defined benefit retirement plan assets is to meet the plans' benefit obligations, while minimizing the potential for future required Company plan contributions. The investment strategies focus on asset class diversification, liquidity to meet benefit payments and an appropriate balance of long-term investment return and risk. Target ranges for asset allocations are determined by matching the actuarial projections of the plans' future liabilities and benefit payments with expected long-term rates of return on the assets, taking into account investment return volatility and correlations across asset classes. Plan assets are diversified across several investment managers and are generally invested in liquid funds that are selected to track broad market equity and bond indices. Investment risk is carefully controlled with plan assets rebalanced to target allocations on a periodic basis and continual monitoring of investment managers' performance relative to the investment guidelines established with each investment manager. 
               Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 

68   The Procter   Gamble Company 
      
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Cash Flows  .   Management's best estimate of cash requirements for the defined benefit retirement plans and other retiree benefit plans for the year ending June 30, 2012, is approximately   $391   and   $25  , respectively. For the defined benefit retirement plans, this is comprised of   $146   in expected benefit payments from the Company directly to participants of unfunded plans and   $245   of expected contributions to funded plans. For other retiree benefit plans, this is comprised of expected contributions that will be used directly for benefit payments. Expected contributions are dependent on many variables, including the variability of the market value of the plan assets as compared to the benefit obligation and other market or regulatory conditions. In addition, we take into consideration our business investment opportunities and resulting cash requirements. Accordingly, actual funding may differ significantly from current estimates. 
  Total benefit payments expected to be paid to participants, which include payments funded from the Company's assets, as discussed above, as well as payments from the plans, are as follows: 

Employee Stock Ownership Plan 
  We maintain the ESOP to provide funding for certain employee benefits discussed in the preceding paragraphs. 
  The ESOP borrowed   $1.0 billion   in 1989 and the proceeds were used to purchase Series A ESOP Convertible Class A Preferred Stock to fund a portion of the U.S. DC plan. Principal and interest requirements of the borrowing were paid by the Trust from dividends on the preferred shares and from advances provided by the Company. The original borrowing of $1.0 billion has been repaid in full, and advances from the Company of   $144   remain outstanding at June 30, 2011. Each share is convertible at the option of the holder into one share of the Company's common stock. The dividend for the current year was equal to the common stock dividend of   $1.97   per share. The liquidation value is   $6.82   per share. 
  In 1991, the ESOP borrowed an additional   $1.0 billion  . The proceeds were used to purchase Series B ESOP Convertible Class A Preferred Stock to fund a portion of retiree health care benefits. These shares, net of the ESOP's debt, are considered plan assets of the other retiree benefits plan discussed above. Debt service requirements are funded by preferred stock dividends, cash contributions and advances provided by the Company, of which   $405   is outstanding at June 30, 2011. Each share is convertible at the option of the holder into one share of the Company's common stock. The dividend for the current year was equal to the common stock dividend of   $1.97   per share. The liquidation value is   $12.96   per share. 
  Our ESOP accounting practices are consistent with current ESOP accounting guidance, including the permissible continuation of certain provisions from prior accounting guidance. ESOP debt, which is guaranteed by the Company, is recorded as debt (see Note 4) with an offset to the reserve for ESOP debt retirement, which is presented within shareholders' equity. Advances to the ESOP by the Company are recorded as an increase in the reserve for ESOP debt retirement. Interest incurred on the ESOP debt is recorded as interest expense. Dividends on all preferred shares, net of related tax benefits, are charged to retained earnings. 
  The series A and B preferred shares of the ESOP are allocated to employees based on debt service requirements, net of advances made by the Company to the Trust. The number of preferred shares outstanding at June 30 was as follows: 

For purposes of calculating diluted net earnings per common share, the preferred shares held by the ESOP are considered converted from inception. 
    
    NOTE 9 
  INCOME TAXES 
  Income taxes are recognized for the amount of taxes payable for the current year and for the impact of deferred tax assets and liabilities, which represent future tax consequences of events that have been recognized differently in the financial statements than for tax purposes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are established using the enacted statutory tax rates and are adjusted for any changes in such rates in the period of change. 
  Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes consisted of the following: 

Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
      
     The Procter   Gamble Company   69 

Income taxes on continuing operations consisted of the following: 

A reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate to our actual income tax rate on continuing operations is provided below: 

Changes in uncertain tax positions represent changes in our net liability related to prior year tax positions. 
  In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) was signed into law. One of the provisions of the PPACA changed the taxability of federal subsidies received by plan sponsors that provide retiree prescription drug benefits at least equivalent to Medicare Part D coverage. As a result of the change in taxability of the federal subsidy, we were required to make adjustments to deferred tax asset balances, resulting in a   $152   charge to income tax expense in 2010. 
  Tax benefits credited to shareholders' equity totaled   $510   and   $5   for the years ended June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. These primarily relate to the tax effects of net investment hedges, excess tax benefits from the exercise of stock options and the impacts of certain adjustments to pension and other retiree benefit obligations recorded in shareholders' equity. 
  We have undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries of approximately   $35 billion   at June 30, 2011, for which deferred taxes have not been provided. Such earnings are considered indefinitely invested in the foreign subsidiaries. If such earnings were repatriated, additional tax expense may result, although the calculation of such additional taxes is not practicable. 
  A reconciliation of the beginning and ending liability for uncertain tax positions is as follows: 

The Company is present in over   150   taxable jurisdictions and, at any point in time, has   50-60   audits underway at various stages of completion. We evaluate our tax positions and establish liabilities for uncertain tax positions that may be challenged by local authorities and may not be fully sustained, despite our belief that the underlying tax positions are fully supportable. Uncertain tax positions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are adjusted in light of changing facts and circumstances, including progress of tax audits, developments in case law and closing of statute of limitations. Such adjustments are reflected in the tax provision as appropriate. The Company is making a concerted effort to bring its audit inventory to a more current position. We have done this by working with tax authorities to conduct audits for several open years at once. We have tax years open ranging from   2002   and forward. We are generally not able to reliably estimate the ultimate settlement amounts until the close of the audit. While we do not expect material changes, it is possible that the amount of unrecognized benefit with respect to our uncertain tax positions will significantly increase or decrease within the next 12 months related to the audits described above. At this time, we are not able to make a reasonable estimate of the range of impact on the balance of uncertain tax positions or the impact on the effective tax rate related to these items. 
  Included in the total liability for uncertain tax positions at June 30, 2011, is   $1,424   that, depending on the ultimate resolution, could impact the effective tax rate in future periods. 
  We recognize accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense. As of June 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we had accrued interest of   $475  ,   $622   and   $636   and penalties of   $80  ,   $89   and   $100  , respectively, that are not included in the above table. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recognized   $(197)   ,   $38   and   $119   in interest expense/(benefit) and   $(16)   ,   $(8)   and   $(4)   in penalties expense/(benefit), respectively. 
               Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 

70   The Procter   Gamble Company 
      
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities were comprised of the following: 

Net operating loss carryforwards were   $2,663   and   $1,875   at June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. If unused,   $1,019   will expire between 2012 and 2031. The remainder, totaling   $1,644   at June 30, 2011, may be carried forward indefinitely. 
      
  NOTE 10 
  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 
  Guarantees 
  In conjunction with certain transactions, primarily divestitures, we may provide routine indemnifications (e.g., indemnification for representations and warranties and retention of previously existing environmental, tax and employee liabilities) for which terms range in duration and, in some circumstances, are not explicitly defined. The maximum obligation under some indemnifications is also not explicitly stated and, as a result, the overall amount of these obligations cannot be reasonably estimated. Other than obligations recorded as liabilities at the time of divestiture, we have not made significant payments for these indemnifications. We believe that if we were to incur a loss on any of these matters, the loss would not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 
  In certain situations, we guarantee loans for suppliers and customers. The total amount of guarantees issued under such arrangements is not material. 
  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
  We do not have off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including variable interest entities, that have a material impact on our financial statements. 
  Purchase Commitments and Operating Leases 
  We have purchase commitments for materials, supplies, services and property, plant and equipment as part of the normal course of business. Commitments made under take-or-pay obligations are as follows:    

Such amounts represent future purchases in line with expected usage to obtain favorable pricing. Approximately   26%   of our purchase commitments relate to service contracts for information technology, human resources management and facilities management activities that have been outsourced to third-party suppliers. Due to the proprietary nature of many of our materials and processes, certain supply contracts contain penalty provisions for early termination. We do not expect to incur penalty payments under these provisions that would materially affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 
  We also lease certain property and equipment for varying periods. Future minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases, net of guaranteed sublease income, are as follows:    

Litigation 
  We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims arising out of our business which cover a wide range of matters such as governmental regulations, antitrust and trade regulations, product liability, patent and trademark matters, income taxes and other actions. 
  As previously disclosed, the Company is and has been subject to a variety of investigations into potential competition law violations in Europe by the European Commission and national authorities from a number of countries. These matters involve a number of other consumer products companies and/or retail customers. The Company's policy is to comply with all laws and regulations, including all antitrust and competition laws, and to cooperate with investigations by relevant regulatory authorities, which the Company is doing. Competition and antitrust law inquiries often continue for several years and, if violations are found, can result in substantial fines. 
  In response to the actions of the European Commission and national authorities, the Company launched its own internal investigations into potential violations of competition laws. The Company has identified violations in certain European countries and appropriate actions were taken. 
               Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
      
     The Procter   Gamble Company   71 

Several regulatory authorities in Europe have issued separate complaints pursuant to their investigations alleging that the Company, along with several other companies, engaged in violations of competition laws in those countries. The remaining authorities' investigations are in various stages of the regulatory process. As a result of our initial and on-going analyses of the complaints, as well as final decisions issued by the European Commission and authorities in a number of other countries in fiscal 2011, the Company has reserves totaling   $611   as of June 30, 2011, for fines for competition law violations. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, certain of the reserves included in this amount represent the low end of a range of potential outcomes. Accordingly, the ultimate resolution of these matters may result in fines or costs in excess of the amounts reserved that could materially impact our income statement and cash flows in the period in which they are accrued and paid, respectively. We will continue to monitor developments for all of these investigations and will record additional charges as appropriate.  
  With respect to other litigation and claims, while considerable uncertainty exists, in the opinion of management and our counsel, the ultimate resolution of the various lawsuits and claims will not materially affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 
  We are also subject to contingencies pursuant to environmental laws and regulations that in the future may require us to take action to correct the effects on the environment of prior manufacturing and waste disposal practices. Based on currently available information, we do not believe the ultimate resolution of environmental remediation will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 
      
  NOTE 11 
  SEGMENT INFORMATION 
  The Company has two global business units (GBUs): the Beauty   Grooming GBU and the Household Care GBU. 
  Under U.S. GAAP, we have six reportable segments:  
             
    Beauty  : Cosmetics, Female Antiperspirant and Deodorant, Female Personal Cleansing, Female Shave Care, Hair Care, Hair Color, Hair Styling, Pharmacy Channel, Prestige Products, Salon Professional and Skin Care; 
                
    Grooming  : Electronic Hair Removal Devices, Home Small Appliances, Male Blades and Razors and Male Personal Care; 
                
    Health Care  : Feminine Care, Gastrointestinal, Incontinence, Rapid Diagnostics, Respiratory, Toothbrush, Toothpaste, Water Filtration and Other Oral Care; 
                
    Snacks and Pet Care  : Pet Care and Snacks;  
                
    Fabric Care and Home Care  : Laundry Additives, Air Care, Batteries, Dish Care, Fabric Enhancers, Laundry Detergents and Surface Care; 
                
    Baby Care and Family Care  : Baby Wipes, Diapers, Paper Towels, Tissues and Toilet Paper. 
     The accounting policies of the businesses are generally the same as those described in Note 1. Differences between these policies and U.S. GAAP primarily reflect income taxes, which are reflected in the businesses using applicable blended statutory rates, and the treatment of certain unconsolidated investees. Certain unconsolidated investees are managed as integral parts of our business units for management reporting purposes. Accordingly, these partially owned operations are reflected as consolidated subsidiaries in segment results, with full recognition of the individual income statement line items through before-tax earnings. Eliminations to adjust these line items to U.S. GAAP are included in Corporate. In determining after-tax earnings for the businesses, we eliminate the share of earnings applicable to other ownership interests, in a manner similar to noncontrolling interest and apply statutory tax rates. Adjustments to arrive at our effective tax rate are also included in Corporate. 
  Corporate includes certain operating and non-operating activities that are not reflected in the operating results used internally to measure and evaluate the businesses, as well as eliminations to adjust management reporting principles to U.S. GAAP. Operating activities in Corporate include the results of incidental businesses managed at the corporate level along with the elimination of individual revenues and expenses generated by certain unconsolidated investees discussed in the preceding paragraph over which we exert significant influence, but do not control. Operating elements also include certain employee benefit costs, the costs of certain restructuring-type activities to maintain a competitive cost structure, including manufacturing and workforce rationalization and other general Corporate items. The non-operating elements in Corporate primarily include interest expense, divestiture gains and interest and investing income. In addition, Corporate includes the historical results of certain divested businesses. 
  Total assets for the reportable segments include those assets managed by the reportable segment, primarily inventory, fixed assets and intangible assets. Other assets, primarily including cash, accounts receivable, investment securities and goodwill, are included in Corporate. 
  The Company had net sales in the U.S. of   $30.5 billion  ,   $30.0 billion   and   $29.6 billion   for the years ended June 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Assets in the U.S. totaled   $70.3 billion   and   $70.1 billion   as of June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
  Our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for   15%   of consolidated net sales in 2011 and   16%   in 2010 and 2009. 
    
               Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 

72   The Procter   Gamble Company 
      
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

(1) 
    The Corporate reportable segment includes the total assets and capital expenditures of the coffee and pharmaceuticals businesses prior to their divestitures in November 2008 and October 2009, respectively. 
       
               Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
      
     The Procter   Gamble Company   73 

NOTE 12 
  DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 
  In October 2009, the Company completed the divestiture of our global pharmaceuticals business to Warner Chilcott plc (Warner Chilcott) for   $2.8 billion    of cash, net of assumed and transferred liabilities. Under the terms of the agreement, Warner Chilcott acquired our portfolio of branded pharmaceutical products, our prescription drug product pipeline and our manufacturing facilities in Puerto Rico and Germany. In addition, the majority of the employees working on the pharmaceuticals business were transferred to Warner Chilcott. The Company recorded an after-tax gain on the transaction of   $1,464  , which is included in net earnings from discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the year ended June 30, 2010. 
  The pharmaceuticals business had historically been part of the Company's Health Care reportable segment. In accordance with the applicable accounting guidance for the disposal of long-lived assets, the results of the pharmaceuticals business are presented as discontinued operations and, as such, have been excluded from both continuing operations and segment results for all years presented. 
  In November 2008, the Company completed the divestiture of our coffee business through the merger of our Folgers coffee subsidiary into The J.M. Smucker Company (Smucker) in an all-stock Reverse Morris Trust transaction. In connection with the merger,   38.7 million   shares of common stock of the Company were tendered by shareholders and exchanged for all shares of Folgers common stock, resulting in an increase in treasury stock of   $2,466  . Pursuant to the merger, a Smucker subsidiary merged with and into Folgers and Folgers became a wholly owned subsidiary of Smucker. The Company recorded an after-tax gain on the transaction of   $2,011  , which is included in net earnings from discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the year ended June 30, 2009. 
  The coffee business had historically been part of the Company's Snacks, Coffee and Pet Care reportable segment, as well as the coffee portion of our away-from-home business, which was included in the Fabric Care and Home Care reportable segment. In accordance with the applicable accounting guidance for the disposal of long-lived assets, the results of Folgers are presented as discontinued operations and, as such, have been excluded from both continuing operations and segment results for all years presented. 
  Following is selected financial information included in net earnings from discontinued operations for the pharmaceuticals and coffee businesses: 

The net gain on the sale of the pharmaceuticals business, in the table above, for the year ended June 30, 2010, also includes an after-tax gain on the sale of the Actonel brand in Japan which occurred prior to the divestiture to Warner Chilcott. 
               Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 

74   The Procter   Gamble Company 
      
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

NOTE 13 
  QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) 

Amounts in millions of dollars except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 

76   The Procter   Gamble Company 

Financial Summary (Unaudited) 

Shareholder Return Performance Graphs 
    
  Market and Dividend Information 
    
  P G has been paying a dividend for 121 consecutive years since its incorporation in 1890 and has increased its dividend for 55 consecutive years at an annual compound average rate of approximately 9.5%. 

QUARTERLY DIVIDENDS   

COMMON STOCK PRICE RANGE 

The Procter   Gamble Company   77 

Shareholder Return Performance Graphs 
  (continued) 
    
  SHAREHOLDER RETURN 
  The following graph compares the cumulative total return of P G s common stock for the 5-year period ending June 30, 2011, against the cumulative total return of the S P 500 Stock Index (broad market comparison) and the S P 500 Consumer Staples Index (line of business comparison). The graph and table assume $100 was invested on June 30, 2006, and that all dividends were reinvested. 

Recognition 
  P G is recognized as a leading global company, including a #5 ranking on   Fortune s    Global Most Admired Companies,  the #10 ranking on   Barron s    World s Most Respected Companies List,  a #25 ranking on   Business Week s   list of  World s Most Innovative Companies,  a #3 ranking on the   AMR Research Supply Chain Top 25  , top rankings on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index from 2000 to 2011, a ranking on the list of the Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World, and a consistent #1 ranking within our industry on   Fortune s   Most Admired list for 26 of 27 total years and for 14 years in a row. In 2010, P G was recognized by SymphonyIRI Group as the most innovative manufacturer in the consumer packaged goods industry for the last decade   presenting the Company with its  Outstanding Achievement in Innovation  award. This year, P G was again recognized by SymphonyIRI Group for using innovation to launch four of the ten most successful new products of 2010. 
    
  P G s commitment to creating a diverse workplace has been recognized by the National Association for Female Executives (Top 50 Companies for Executive Women),   Working Mother   magazine (Top 20 Best Companies for Multicultural Women) and   DiversityInc   (#25 ranking on the Top 50 Companies for Diversity and #9 ranking on the Top Companies for Recruitment and Retention). 
    
  Supplier diversity is a fundamental business strategy that strengthens our innovation and go-to-market capabilities and touches and improves the lives of our diverse suppliers, their employees and the communities in which they live and work. For the fourth year in a row, P G spent more than $2 billion with minority- and women-owned businesses. Since 2005, P G has been a member of the Billion Dollar Roundtable, a forum of 18 corporations that spend more than $1 billion annually with diverse suppliers. 

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 6
 exhibit21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Exhibit 21 

EXHIBIT (21) 
    
  THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
    
  The registrant s subsidiaries are listed below, omitting certain entities that have de minimis activity or are in the process of being liquidated that, if considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, would not constitute a significant subsidiary as of June 30, 2011.  Entities denoted with an asterisk (*) are among those currently planned for liquidation. 

AB Tudor Hellesens [Sweden] 
      Agile Pursuits Franchising, Inc. [Ohio] 
      Agile Pursuits, Inc. [Ohio] 
      An-Pro Company [Ohio] 
      Arbora   Ausonia, S.L. [Spain] 
      Arbora, S.A. [Spain] 
      Baryon, S. de R.L. de C.V. [Mexico] 
      Becruz, S.A. de C.V. [Mexico] 
      Braun (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. [China] 
      Braun (Shanghai) International Trading Co., Ltd. [China] 
      Braun GmbH [Germany] 
      Braun Oral-B Ireland Limited [Ireland] 
      Braun-Gillette Immobilien GmbH   Co. KG [Germany] 
      CAMADA Grundst cks-GmbH   Co. oHG [Germany] 
      Capella OOO [Russia] 
      Celtic Insurance Company, Inc.  [Vermont] 
      Chemo Laboratories Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. [Malaysia] (*) 
      China Battery Limited [Hong Kong] 
      Clairol Limited [U.K.] (*) 
      Compania Giva, S.A. [Delaware] 
      Compania Procter   Gamble Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. [Mexico] 
      Consumer Studies, Inc. [Massachusetts] 
      Corporativo Procter   Gamble, S. de R.L. de C.V. [Mexico] 
      Corpydes S.A. de C.V. [Mexico] 
      Cosmetic Products Pty. Ltd. [Australia] 
      Cosmetic Research Bureau, Inc. [Delaware] 
      Cosmetic Suppliers Pty. Ltd. [Australia] 
      Cosmopolitan Cosmetics K.K. [Japan] 
      Crest Toothpaste Inc. [Canada] 
      Decun, S. de R.L. de C.V. [Mexico] 
      Detergent Products B.V.  [Netherlands ] 
      Detergent Products SARL [Switzerland] (*) 
      Duracell (1993) Ltd. [U.K.] (*) 
      Duracell (China) Ltd. [China] 
      Duracell Batteries B.V.B.A. [Belgium] 
      Duracell Batteries Ltd. [U.K.] (*) 
      Duracell do Brasil Industria e Comercio Ltda. [Brazil] 
      Eastern European Supply Company [Ukraine] 
      Escada Cosmetics Ltd. [Korea] 
      European Beauty Products (U.K.) Limited [U.K.] (*) 
      Explotadora de Inmuebles Magdalena, S.A. [Mexico] 
      Fameccanica Data S.p.A. [Italy] 
      Fameccanica Ind stria e Com rcio Do Brasil LTDA. [Brazil] 
      Fameccanica Machinery (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. [China] 
      Fater S.p.A. [Italy] 
      FF Trademark, LLC [Delaware] 
      Foreign Company "Procter   Gamble" [Belarus] 
      Fountain Square Music Publishing Co., Inc. [Ohio] 

[ ] Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name 

    THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
    
  The registrant s subsidiaries are listed below, omitting certain entities that have de minimis activity or are in the process of being liquidated that, if considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, would not constitute a significant subsidiary as of June 30, 2011.  Entities denoted with an asterisk (*) are among those currently planned for liquidation. 

FPG Oleochemicals Sdn. Bhd. [Malaysia] 
      Frederic Fekkai   Co., LLC [Delaware] 
      Frederic Fekkai   Company (Soho), LLC [New York] 
      Frederic Fekkai (Mark NY), LLC [Delaware] 
      Frederic Fekkai Beverly Hills, LLC [Calfornia] 
      Frederic Fekkai Dallas, LLC [Delaware] 
      Frederic Fekkai Greenwich, LLC [Delaware] 
      Frederic Fekkai Las Vegas, LLC [Delaware] 
      Frederic Fekkai Melrose Place, LLC [California] 
      Frederic Fekkai New York, LLC [New York] 
      Frederic Fekkai NY II, LLC [Delaware] 
      Frederic Fekkai Palm Beach, LLC [Florida] 
      Frederic Holding Co.  [Delaware] 
      Frederic, LLC [Delaware] 
      Fruehling Cosmetics Co. Ltd. [Thailand] (*) 
      Fujian Nanping Nanfu Battery Co., Ltd. [China] 
      Gala Cosmetics International Limited [U.K.] 
      Gillette (China) Ltd. [China] 
      Gillette (Shanghai) Ltd. [China] 
      Gillette (Shanghai) Sales Company Limited [China] 
      Gillette Aesop Ltd. [U.K.] 
      Gillette Australia Pty. Ltd. [Australia] 
      Gillette Canada Holdings, Inc. [Delaware] 
      Gillette Central Services Limited [U.K.] 
      Gillette China Investment, LLC [Delaware] 
      Gillette Commercial Operations North America [Massachusetts] 
      Gillette Czech and Ukraine Holding, LLC [Ohio] 
      Gillette de Mexico, Inc. [Delaware] 
      Gillette del Uruguay, S.A. [Uruguay] 
      Gillette Distribution Ltd. [Egypt] 
      Gillette Diversified Operations Pvt. Ltd. [India] 
      Gillette Egypt S.A.E. [Egypt] 
      Gillette European Services Centre Ltd. [U.K.] 
      Gillette GOK Holding LLC [Ohio] 
      Gillette Group UK Ltd [U.K.] (*) 
      Gillette Holding Company, Inc. [Delaware] 
      Gillette Holding GmbH [Germany] 
      Gillette India Limited [India] 
      Gillette Industries Ltd. [U.K.] 
      Gillette International B.V. [Netherlands ] 
      Gillette Latin America Holding B.V. [Netherlands ] 
      Gillette Management LLC [Delaware] 
      Gillette Nova Scotia Company [Canada] 
      Gillette Pakistan Limited [Pakistan] 
      Gillette Poland International sp. zo.o. [Poland] 
      Gillette Poland S.A. [Poland] 
      Gillette Products Private Limited [India] 
      Gillette Puerto Rico LLC [Puerto Rico] 
      Gillette Safety Razor Company [Massachusetts] 
      Gillette Sanayi ve Ticaret Ltd. Sti. [Turkey] 

[ ] Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name 

    THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
    
  The registrant s subsidiaries are listed below, omitting certain entities that have de minimis activity or are in the process of being liquidated that, if considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, would not constitute a significant subsidiary as of June 30, 2011.  Entities denoted with an asterisk (*) are among those currently planned for liquidation. 

Gillette U.K. Limited [U.K.] 
      Giorgio Beverly Hills, Inc. [Delaware] 
      Global Business Services de Costa Rica Limitada [Costa Rica] 
      Graham Webb International, Inc. [Delaware] 
      Gresham Cosmetics Pty. Ltd. [Australia] 
      HDS Cosmetics Lab Inc. [Delaware] 
      Hyginett KFT [Hungary] 
      Iams Chile Ltda. [Chile] 
      Iams Europe B.V. [Netherlands ] 
      Iams Pet Food International N.V. [Netherlands ] 
      Industries Marocaines Modernes SA [Morocco] 
      Intpropco S.A. [Switzerland] 
      Laboratorios Vicks, S.L. [Spain] 
      Liberty Street Music Publishing Company, Inc. [Ohio] 
      Limited Liability Company 'Procter   Gamble Trading Ukraine'  [Ukraine] 
      LLC "Procter   Gamble - Novomoskovsk" [Russia] 
      LLL "Procter   Gamble Distributorskaya Compania" [Russia] 
      LLL "Procter   Gamble Prestige Products" [Russia] (*) 
      Londa GmbH [Germany] 
      Londa Kosmetika OOO [Russia] 
      Londa Rothenkirchen Produktions GmbH [Germany] 
      Marcvenca Inversiones, C.A. [Venezuela] 
      MDVIP, Inc. [Delaware] 
      Metropolitan Cosmetics GmbH [Germany] 
      Mining Consultants (India) Private Ltd. [India] 
      Modern Industries Company - Dammam  [Saudi Arabia] 
      Modern Products Company - Jeddah [Saudi Arabia] 
      Natura Pet Products, Inc. [Delaware] 
      Nexus Mercantile Private Ltd. [India] 
      Nioxin Management, Inc. [Georgia] 
      Nioxin Research Laboratories, Inc. [Georgia] 
      Noxell Corporation [Maryland] 
      Olay LLC  [Puerto Rico] 
      Ondal France SARL [France] 
      Oral-B Laboratories Dublin LLC [Delaware] 
      Oral-B Laboratories Newbridge LLC [Delaware] 
      Oral-B Laboratories, G.P. [Delaware] 
      P G Asia Investments, LLC [Ohio] 
      P G Design Center Godo Kaisha [Japan] 
      P G Distribution Morocco SAS [Morocco] 
      P G Indochina [Vietnam] 
      P G Industrial Peru S.R.L. [Peru] 
      P G Innovation Godo Kaisha [Japan] 
      P G Israel M.D.O. Ltd. [Israel] 
      P G Japan Holdings Godo Kaisha [Japan] 
      P G K.K.  [Japan] 
      P G Max Factor Godo Kaisha [Japan] 
      P G Northeast Asia Pte. Ltd. [Singapore] (*) 
      P G Prestige Products GmbH [Germany] 
      P G Prestige Products Ltd. [U.K.] 

[ ] Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name 

    THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
    
  The registrant s subsidiaries are listed below, omitting certain entities that have de minimis activity or are in the process of being liquidated that, if considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, would not constitute a significant subsidiary as of June 30, 2011.  Entities denoted with an asterisk (*) are among those currently planned for liquidation. 

P G Prestige Products N.V.  [Belgium] 
      P G Prestige Products Taiwan [Taiwan] (*) 
      P G Prestige Products, Inc. [Connecticut] 
      P G Prestige Service GmbH [Germany] 
      P G South African Trading (Pty.) Ltd. [South Africa] 
      P G-Clairol, Inc. [Delaware] 
      PADOS Grundst cks-Vermietungsgesellschaft mbH   Co. Objekt Darmstadt KG [Germany] 
      Parfums Rochas S.A.S. [France] 
      Parkfin [U.K.] 
      PGIO S.A. Agencia en Chile [Chile] 
      Phase II Holdings Corporation [Philippines] 
      PPI ZAO [Russia] 
      PPS Hairwear Australia Pty. Ltd. [Australia] 
      Procter   Gamble (Chengdu) Ltd. [China] 
      Procter   Gamble (China) Ltd. [China] 
      Procter   Gamble (Egypt) Manufacturing Company [Egypt] 
      Procter   Gamble (Enterprise Fund) Limited [U.K.] 
      Procter   Gamble (Guangzhou) Ltd.   [China] 
      Procter   Gamble (Health   Beauty Care) Limited [U.K.] 
      Procter   Gamble (Jiangsu) Ltd. [China] 
      Procter   Gamble (L CP) Limited [U.K.] 
      Procter   Gamble (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd [Malaysia] 
      Procter   Gamble (Manufacturing) Ireland Limited  [Ireland] (*) 
      Procter   Gamble (Shanghai) International Trade Company Ltd. [China] 
      Procter   Gamble (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. [Singapore] 
      Procter   Gamble Acquisition GmbH [Germany] 
      Procter   Gamble Albania Ltd. [Albania] 
      Procter   Gamble Algeria EURL [Algeria] 
      Procter   Gamble Amazon Holding B.V.  [Netherlands ] 
      Procter   Gamble Amiens S.A.S. [France] 
      Procter   Gamble Argentina SRL [Argentina] 
      Procter   Gamble Asia Holding B.V. [Netherlands ] 
      Procter   Gamble Asia Pte. Ltd. [Philippines] 
      Procter   Gamble Asia Pte. Ltd. [Singapore] (*) 
      Procter   Gamble Australia Proprietary Limited  [Australia] 
      Procter   Gamble Austria GmbH [Austria] 
      Procter   Gamble Azerbaijan Services LLC [Azerbaijan] 
      Procter   Gamble Bangladesh Private Ltd. [Bangladesh] 
      Procter   Gamble Blois S.A.S. [France] 
      Procter   Gamble Brazil Holdings B.V. [Netherlands ] 
      Procter   Gamble Bulgaria EOOD [Bulgaria] 
      Procter   Gamble Business Services Canada Company [Canada] 
      Procter   Gamble Canada Holding B.V. [Netherlands ] 
      Procter   Gamble Chile Holding Ltda. [Chile] 
      Procter   Gamble Chile Limitada [Chile] 
      Procter   Gamble Chile, Inc. [Ohio] 
      Procter   Gamble Colombia Ltda. [Colombia] 
      Procter   Gamble Commercial de Cuba, S.A. [Cuba] 
      Procter   Gamble Commercial LLC [Puerto Rico] 
      Procter   Gamble Czech Holding B.V. [Netherlands ] 

[ ] Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name 

    THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
    
  The registrant s subsidiaries are listed below, omitting certain entities that have de minimis activity or are in the process of being liquidated that, if considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, would not constitute a significant subsidiary as of June 30, 2011.  Entities denoted with an asterisk (*) are among those currently planned for liquidation. 

Procter   Gamble Czech Republic s.r.o. [Czech Republic] 
      Procter   Gamble d.o.o. za trgovinu [Croatia] 
      Procter   Gamble Danmark ApS [Denmark] 
      Procter   Gamble Detergent (Beijing) Ltd. [China] 
      Procter   Gamble Development Co AG [Switzerland] (*) 
      Procter   Gamble Distributing (HK) Limited [Hong Kong]  (*) 
      Procter   Gamble Distributing (Philippines) Inc. [Philippines] 
      Procter   Gamble Distributing New Zealand Limited [New Zealand] 
      Procter   Gamble Distribution Company (Europe) BVBA [Belgium] 
      Procter   Gamble Distribution S.R.L. [Romania] 
      Procter   Gamble do Brasil S/A [Brazil] 
      Procter   Gamble Do Brazil, Agencia en Chile [Chile] 
      Procter   Gamble do Brazil, LLC [Delaware] (*) 
      Procter   Gamble do Nordeste S/A [Brazil] 
      Procter   Gamble DS Polska Spolka z o.o. [Poland] 
      Procter   Gamble Eastern Europe, LLC [Ohio] (*) 
      Procter   Gamble Ecuador Cia. Ltda. [Ecuador] 
      Procter   Gamble Egypt [Egypt] 
      Procter   Gamble Egypt Distribution [Egypt] 
      Procter   Gamble Egypt Holding [Egypt] 
      Procter   Gamble Egypt Supplies [Egypt] 
      Procter   Gamble Energy Company LLC [Ohio] 
      Procter   Gamble Espana S.A. [Spain] 
      Procter   Gamble Eurocor N.V. [Belgium] 
      Procter   Gamble Europe BVBA [Belgium] 
      Procter   Gamble Europe SA [Switzerland] 
      Procter   Gamble Export Operations SARL [Switzerland] (*) 
      Procter   Gamble Exports, S. de R.L. [Panama] 
      Procter   Gamble Far East, Inc. [Ohio] 
      Procter   Gamble Finance (U.K.) Ltd. [U.K.] 
      Procter   Gamble Financial Services SARL [Luxembourg] 
      Procter   Gamble Finland OY [Finland] 
      Procter   Gamble France S.A.S. [France] 
      Procter   Gamble Germany GmbH [Germany] 
      Procter   Gamble Germany GmbH   Co. Operations oHG [Germany] 
      Procter   Gamble GmbH [Germany] 
      Procter   Gamble Grundstucks-und Vermogensverwaltungs GmbH   Co. KG [Germany] 
      Procter   Gamble Gulf FZE [United Arab Emirates] 
      Procter   Gamble Hair Care, LLC [Delaware] 
      Procter   Gamble Hellas Ltd. [Greece] 
      Procter   Gamble Holding (HK) Limited [Hong Kong] 
      Procter   Gamble Holding (Thailand) Limited [Thailand] 
      Procter   Gamble Holding France S.A.S. [France] 
      Procter   Gamble Holding GmbH [Germany] 
      Procter   Gamble Holding S.r.l. [Italy] 
      Procter   Gamble Holdings (UK) Ltd. [U.K.] 
      Procter   Gamble Home Products Limited [India] 
      Procter   Gamble Hong Kong Limited [Hong Kong]  (*) 
      Procter   Gamble Hungary Wholesale Trading Partnership (KKT) [Hungary] 
      Procter   Gamble Hygiene   Health Care Limited [India] 

[ ] Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name 

    THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
    
  The registrant s subsidiaries are listed below, omitting certain entities that have de minimis activity or are in the process of being liquidated that, if considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, would not constitute a significant subsidiary as of June 30, 2011.  Entities denoted with an asterisk (*) are among those currently planned for liquidation. 

Procter   Gamble Inc. [Canada] 
      Procter   Gamble India Holdings B.V. [Netherlands ] 
      Procter   Gamble India Holdings, Inc. [Ohio] 
      Procter   Gamble Industrial Colombia Ltda. [Colombia] 
      Procter   Gamble Industrial de Guatemala, S.A. [Guatemala] 
      Procter   Gamble Industrial e Comercial Ltda. [Brazil] 
      Procter   Gamble Industrial S.A. [Venezuela] 
      Procter   Gamble Interamericas de Costa Rica, Limitada [Costa Rica] 
      Procter   Gamble Interamericas de El Salvador, Limitada de Capital Variable [El Salvador] 
      Procter   Gamble Interamericas de Guatemala, Limitada [Guatemala] 
      Procter   Gamble Interamericas de Panama, S. de R.L. [Panama] 
      Procter   Gamble International Finance Funding General Management S.a.r.l. [Luxembourg] (*) 
      Procter   Gamble International Funding SCA [Luxembourg] 
      Procter   Gamble International Operations Pte. Ltd. [Singapore] 
      Procter   Gamble International Operations S.A. [Switzerland] 
      Procter   Gamble International S.a.r.l. [Luxembourg] 
      Procter   Gamble Investment Company (UK) Ltd. [U.K.] 
      Procter   Gamble Investment GmbH [Germany] 
      Procter   Gamble Italia, S.p.A. [Italy] 
      Procter   Gamble Japan K.K. [Japan] 
      Procter   Gamble Kazakhstan LLP [Kazakhstan] 
      Procter   Gamble Korea IE, Co. [Korea] 
      Procter   Gamble Korea Inc. [Korea] 
      Procter   Gamble Korea S D Co. [Korea] 
      Procter   Gamble Lanka Private Ltd. [Sri Lanka] 
      Procter   Gamble Leasing LLC [Ohio] 
      Procter   Gamble Levant S.A.L. [Lebanon] 
      Procter   Gamble Limited [U.K.] 
      Procter   Gamble Luxembourg Global S.a.r.l. [Luxembourg] 
      Procter   Gamble Manufactura, S. de R.L. de C.V. [Mexico] 
      Procter   Gamble Manufacturing (Thailand) Limited [Thailand] 
      Procter   Gamble Manufacturing (Tianjin) Co. Ltd. [China] 
      Procter   Gamble Manufacturing Belgium N.V. [Belgium] 
      Procter   Gamble Manufacturing Berlin GmbH [Germany] 
      Procter   Gamble Manufacturing Cologne GmbH [Germany] 
      Procter   Gamble Manufacturing GmbH [Germany] 
      Procter   Gamble Manufacturing SA [South Africa] 
      Procter   Gamble Manufacturing Ukraine [Ukraine] 
      Procter   Gamble Marketing   Commercial Activities d.o.o. Ljubljana [Slovenia] 
      Procter   Gamble Marketing and Services doo Beograd [Serbia and Montenegro] 
      Procter   Gamble Marketing DOOEL Skopje [Macedonia] 
      Procter   Gamble Marketing Romania SRL [Romania] 
      Procter   Gamble Maroc SA [Morocco] 
      Procter   Gamble Mataro, S.L. [Spain] 
      Procter   Gamble Mexico Holding B.V. [Netherlands ] 
      Procter   Gamble Moldova SRL [Moldova] 
      Procter   Gamble Nederland B.V. [Netherlands ] 
      Procter   Gamble Netherlands Services B.V.  [Netherlands ] 
      Procter   Gamble Neuilly S.A.S. [France] 
      Procter   Gamble Nigeria Limited [Nigeria] 

[ ] Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name 

    THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
    
  The registrant s subsidiaries are listed below, omitting certain entities that have de minimis activity or are in the process of being liquidated that, if considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, would not constitute a significant subsidiary as of June 30, 2011.  Entities denoted with an asterisk (*) are among those currently planned for liquidation. 

Procter   Gamble Nordic LLC [Ohio] 
      Procter   Gamble Norge AS [Norway] 
      "Procter   Gamble" O.O.O. [Russia] 
      Procter   Gamble Operations Polska-Spolka z o.o. [Poland] 
      Procter   Gamble Overseas India B.V. [Netherlands ] 
      Procter   Gamble Overseas Ltd. [U.K.] 
      Procter   Gamble Pakistan (Private) Limited [Pakistan] 
      Procter   Gamble Partnership LLP [U.K.] 
      Procter   Gamble Peru S.R.L. [Peru] 
      Procter   Gamble Pet Care (Australia) Pty. Ltd. [Australia] 
      Procter   Gamble Pharmaceuticals France SAS [France] 
      Procter   Gamble Philippines, Inc. [Philippines] 
      Procter   Gamble Polska-Spolka z o.o [Poland] 
      Procter   Gamble Porto - Fabrica  o De Produtos De Consumo, Sociedade Unipessoal Lda [Portugal] 
      Procter   Gamble Portugal - Produtos De Consumo, Higiene e Sa de S.A. [Portugal] 
      Procter   Gamble Prestige Products S.A. [Spain] 
      Procter   Gamble Prestige Products, S.A. [Portugal] 
      Procter   Gamble Product Supply (U.K.) Limited [U.K.] 
      Procter   Gamble Productions, Inc. [Ohio] 
      Procter   Gamble RHD, Inc. [Ohio] 
      Procter   Gamble RSC Regional Service Company Ltd. [Hungary] 
      Procter   Gamble S.r.l. [Italy] 
      Procter   Gamble Satis ve Dagitim Ltd. Sti. [Turkey] 
      Procter   Gamble Senegal S.a.r.l. [Senegal] 
      Procter   Gamble Service GmbH [Germany] 
      Procter   Gamble Services (Switzerland) SA [Switzerland] 
      Procter   Gamble Services Company N.V. [Belgium] 
      "Procter   Gamble Services Company" O.O.O.  [Russia] 
      Procter   Gamble Services LT [Lithuania] 
      Procter   Gamble Services Ltd. [Kenya] 
      Procter   Gamble Servicse EESTI OU [Estonia] 
      Procter   Gamble Singapore Investment Pte. Ltd. [Singapore] (*) 
      Procter   Gamble South Africa Proprietary Limited   [South Africa] 
      Procter   Gamble South America Holding B.V. [Netherlands ] 
      Procter   Gamble Sverige AB [Sweden] 
      Procter   Gamble Switzerland SARL [Switzerland] 
      Procter   Gamble Taiwan Limited [Taiwan] 
      Procter   Gamble Technical Centres Limited [U.K.] 
      Procter   Gamble Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd. [China] 
      Procter   Gamble Trading (Thailand) Limited [Thailand] 
      Procter   Gamble Trgovaeko Drustvo d.o.o. Sarajevo [Bosnia] 
      Procter   Gamble Tuketim Mallari Sanayii A.S. [Turkey] 
      Procter   Gamble UK [U.K.] 
      Procter   Gamble UK Parent Company Ltd. [U.K.] 
      Procter   Gamble Ukraine [Ukraine] 
      Procter   Gamble Verwaltungs GmbH [Germany] 
      Procter   Gamble Vietnam Co. Ltd. [Vietnam] 
      Procter   Gamble, Spol. s.r.o. (Ltd.)  [Slovak Republic] 
      Procter   Gamble-Rakona s.r.o. [Czech Republic] 
      Productos Cosmeticos, S.L. [Spain] 

[ ] Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name 

    THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
    
  The registrant s subsidiaries are listed below, omitting certain entities that have de minimis activity or are in the process of being liquidated that, if considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, would not constitute a significant subsidiary as of June 30, 2011.  Entities denoted with an asterisk (*) are among those currently planned for liquidation. 

Professional Care Logistics, S.L. [Spain] 
      Progam Realty   Development Corporation [Philippines] 
      Promotora de Bienes y Valores, S. de R.L. de C.V. [Mexico] 
      PT Cosmopolitan Cosmetics  [Indonesia] 
      PT Kosmindo [Indonesia] 
      PT Procter   Gamble Home Products Indonesia  [Indonesia] 
      PT Procter   Gamble Operations Indonesia [Indonesia] 
      PUR Water Purification Products, Inc. [Ohio] 
      Redmond Products, Inc. [Minnesota] 
      Richardson-Vicks do Brasil Quimica e Farmac utica Ltda [Brazil] 
      Richardson-Vicks Real Estate Inc. [Ohio] 
      Riverfront Music Publishing Co., Inc. [Ohio] 
      Rosemount LLC [Delaware] (*) 
      Russwell Ltd [Russia] 
      S.C. Detergenti S.A. [Romania] 
      S.P.F. Beaute SAS [France] 
      Scannon GmbH [Germany] 
      Scannon S.A.S. [France] 
      Sebastian Europe GmbH [Germany] 
      Series Acquisition B.V. [Netherlands ] 
      Series Overseas Investment, LLC [Delaware] 
      Shulton (Great Britain) Ltd. [U.K.] (*) 
      Shulton, Inc. [New Jersey] 
      SPD Development Company Limited [U.K.] 
      SPD Swiss Precision Diagnostics GmbH [Switzerland] 
      Surfac S.R.L. [Peru] 
      Sycamore Productions, Inc. [Ohio] 
      Tambrands Inc. [Delaware] 
      Tambrands Limited [U.K.] (*) 
      Tambrands Ukraine Ltd. [Ukraine] 
      TAOS - FL, LLC [Florida] 
      TAOS Retail, LLC [Delaware] 
      Temple Trees Impex   Investment Private Limited [India] 
      The Art of Shaving - FL, LLC [Florida] 
      The Dover Wipes Company [Ohio] 
      The Gillette Company [Delaware] 
      The Iams Company [Ohio] 
      The Procter   Gamble Distributing LLC [Delaware] 
      The Procter   Gamble GBS Company [Ohio] 
      The Procter   Gamble Global Finance Company [Ohio] 
      The Procter   Gamble International Insurance Company, Limited [Ireland] (*) 
      The Procter   Gamble Manufacturing Company [Ohio] 
      The Procter   Gamble Paper Products Company [Ohio] 
      The Procter   Gamble U.S. Business Services Company [Ohio] 
      The Wella Corporation [Delaware] 
      Vidal Sassoon (Shanghai) Academy [China] 
      Vidal Sassoon Co. [Ohio] 
      WEBA Betriebsrenten-Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH [Germany] 
      Wella (U.K.) Ltd. [U.K.] 
      Wella (UK) Holdings Ltd. [U.K.] 

[ ] Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name 

    THE PROCTER   GAMBLE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
    
  The registrant s subsidiaries are listed below, omitting certain entities that have de minimis activity or are in the process of being liquidated that, if considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, would not constitute a significant subsidiary as of June 30, 2011.  Entities denoted with an asterisk (*) are among those currently planned for liquidation. 

Wella Beteiligungen GmbH [Switzerland] (*) 
      Wella Canada, Inc. [Canada] 
      Wella Colombiana Ltda. [Colombia] 
      Wella Cosmetics China Ltd. Co. [China] 
      Wella de M xico, S. de R.L. de C.V. [Mexico] 
      Wella France S.A.S. [France] 
      Wella GmbH [Germany] 
      Wella Grundstucks-und Vermogensverwaltungs AG   Co. KG [Germany] 
      Wella Hellas Ltd. [Greece] 
      Wella India Hair Cosmetics Private Limited [India] 
      Wella Intercosmetic GmbH [Germany] 
      Wella Kozmetik Sanayi ve Ticaret Limited [Turkey] 
      Wella Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. [Malaysia] (*) 
      Wella Management GmbH [Germany] 
      Wella Manufacturing GmbH [Germany] 
      Wella New Zealand  [New Zealand] 
      Wella Philippines Inc. [Philippines] 
      Wella Taiwan Co. Ltd. [Taiwan] (*) 
      Wella Thailand Ltd. [Thailand] 
      Wella Trading (Thailand) Ltd. [Thailand] (*) 
      Wella Verwaltung GmbH  [Germany] (*) 
      Zogi SRL [Italy] 

[ ] Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 7
 exhibit23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

EXHIBIT (23) 
    
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following documents of our reports dated August 10, 2011, relating to the consolidated financial statements of The Procter   Gamble Company and subsidiaries and the effectiveness of The Procter   Gamble Company and subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting, incorporated by reference in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Procter   Gamble Company and subsidiaries for the year ended June 30, 2011.  

/s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP                     
  Deloitte   Touche LLP 
    
  Cincinnati, Ohio  
  August 10, 2011 

</EX-23>

<EX-31>
 8
 exhibit31.htm
 SECTION 302 CEO AND CFO CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31 

EXHIBIT (31) 
    
  Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications    

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications    
    
  I, Robert A. McDonald, certify that: 
    
           (1)   
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Procter   Gamble Company; 
       
           (2)   
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  
       
           (3)   
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
       
           (4)   
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a)   
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b)   
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c)   
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; 
              d)   
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
       
           (5)   
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a)   
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b)   
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 

/s/   ROBERT A. MCDONALD                
  (Robert A. McDonald) 
  Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer 
    
  August 10, 2011                                            
  Date 

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications 

I, Jon R. Moeller, certify that: 
    
           (1)   
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Procter   Gamble Company; 
       
           (2)   
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  
       
           (3)   
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
       
           (4)   
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a)   
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b)   
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c)   
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; 
              d)   
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
       
           (1) 
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a)   
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b)   
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 

/s/   JON R. MOELLER                
  (Jon R. Moeller) 
  Chief Financial Officer 
    
  August 10, 2011                                
  Date 

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 9
 exhibit32.htm
 SECTION 906 CEO AND CFO CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32 

EXHIBIT (32) 
    
  Section 1350 Certifications 

Section 1350 Certifications 
    
  Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned officer of The Procter   Gamble Company (the  Company ) certifies to his knowledge that: 

(2)   
    The information contained in that Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial conditions and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ ROBERT A. MCDONALD         
  (Robert A. McDonald) 
  Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer 
    
  August 10, 2011                                   
  Date 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to The Procter   Gamble Company and will be retained by The Procter   Gamble Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

Section 1350 Certifications 
    
  Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned officer of The Procter   Gamble Company (the  Company ) certifies to his knowledge that: 

(2)   
    The information contained in that Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial conditions and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/  JON R. MOELLER                    
  (Jon R. Moeller) 
  Chief Financial Officer 
    
  August 10, 2011                                  
  Date 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to The Procter   Gamble Company and will be retained by The Procter   Gamble Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

</EX-32>

<EX-99.1>
 10
 exhibit99-1.htm
 SUMMARY OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS INSURANCE PROGRAM

Exhibit 99-1 

EXHIBIT (99-1) 
    
  Summary of Directors and Officers Insurance Program 

The Procter   Gamble Company purchases Director's and Officers Liability insurance from various insurance carriers.  The policy limits for the period from June 30, 2010 to June 30, 2011 were $250 million.  

</EX-99.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 11
 pg-20110630.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 12
 pg-20110630.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 13
 pg-20110630_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 14
 pg-20110630_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 15
 pg-20110630_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 16
 pg-20110630_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

