<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20130227_10-K_edgar_data_34088_0000034088-13-000011_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>27580538</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>337154</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>5083922</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>9645311</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>7196302</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2779660</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>107</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>17</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000034088-13-000011.hdr.sgml : 20140203

<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20130227160506

<PRIVATE-TO-PUBLIC>

ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000034088-13-000011

CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K

PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		135

CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20121231

FILED AS OF DATE:		20130227

DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20140103


FILER:


	COMPANY DATA:	

		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			EXXON MOBIL CORP

		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000034088

		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PETROLEUM REFINING [2911]

		IRS NUMBER:				135409005

		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NJ

		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231



	FILING VALUES:

		FORM TYPE:		10-K

		SEC ACT:		1934 Act

		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02256

		FILM NUMBER:		13646760



	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		5959 LAS COLINAS BLVD

		CITY:			IRVING

		STATE:			TX

		ZIP:			75039-2298

		BUSINESS PHONE:		9724441000



	MAIL ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		5959 LAS COLINAS BLVD

		CITY:			IRVING

		STATE:			TX

		ZIP:			75039-2298



	FORMER COMPANY:	

		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	EXXON CORP

		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703



	FORMER COMPANY:	

		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	STANDARD OIL CO OF NEW JERSEY

		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19721123




</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000034088-13-000011.txt : 20140203

10-K
 1
 xom10k2012.htm
 FORM 10-K

2012    

UNITED STATES    

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION    

   WASHINGTON,
 D.C. 20549    

FORM 10-K    

          ANNUAL REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF    

   THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934    

  For the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2012   

   or    

          TRANSITION
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF    

   THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934    

  For the transition period from
              
to

Commission File Number 1-2256   

   EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION    

  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

NEW JERSEY   

13-5409005   

(State or other jurisdiction of   
     incorporation or organization)   

(I.R.S. Employer   
     Identification Number)   

5959 LAS COLINAS BOULEVARD, IRVING, TEXAS 75039-2298    

  (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)   

   (972) 444-1000    

  (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)   

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act:   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a
well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes            No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not
required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes       No            

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes            No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has
submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every
Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405
of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes            No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.            

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a
smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer, 
 accelerated filer,  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act.   

  Large accelerated filer                
   Accelerated filer      

  Non-accelerated
filer               Smaller
reporting company      

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
shell company (as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).    Yes       No            

  The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant on June 30, 2012, the last business day
of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, based on the
closing price on that date of $85.57 on the New York Stock Exchange composite
tape, was in excess of $394 billion.   

   Documents Incorporated by Reference:  Proxy
Statement for the 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (Part III)    

EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION    

   FORM
10-K    

   FOR
THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2012    

   TABLE OF CONTENTS    

PART I   

Item 1.  

Business  

1    

Item 1A.  

Risk Factors  

2    

Item 1B.  

Unresolved Staff Comments  

4    

Item 2.  

Properties  

5    

Item 3.  

Legal Proceedings  

26    

Item 4.  

Mine Safety Disclosures  

26    

Executive Officers of the Registrant [pursuant to
  Instruction 3 to Regulation S-K, Item 401(b)]  

27    

PART II   

Item 5.  

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
  Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

30    

Item 6.  

Selected Financial Data  

30    

Item 7.  

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
  Condition and Results of Operations  

30    

Item 7A.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
  Market Risk  

30    

Item 8.  

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  

31    

Item 9.  

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
  Accounting and Financial Disclosure  

31    

Item 9A.  

Controls and Procedures  

31    

Item 9B.  

Other Information  

31    

PART III   

Item 10.  

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
  Governance  

32     

Item 11.  

Executive Compensation  

32     

Item 12.  

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
  Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

32     

Item 13.  

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and
  Director Independence  

33     

Item 14.  

Principal Accounting Fees and Services  

33     

PART IV   

Item 15.  

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  

33     

Financial Section  

34     

Signatures  

114     

Index to Exhibits  

116     

Exhibit 12   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to
  Fixed Charges  

Exhibits 31 and 32   Certifications  

PART I   

   ITEM 1.
      BUSINESS    

  Exxon Mobil Corporation was incorporated in the State
of New Jersey in 1882. Divisions and affiliated companies of ExxonMobil operate
or market products in the United States and most other countries of the world.
Their principal business is energy, involving exploration for, and production
of, crude oil and natural gas, manufacture of petroleum products and
transportation and sale of crude oil, natural gas and petroleum products.
ExxonMobil is a major manufacturer and marketer of commodity petrochemicals,
including olefins, aromatics, polyethylene and polypropylene plastics and a
wide variety of specialty products. ExxonMobil also has interests in electric
power generation facilities. Affiliates of ExxonMobil conduct extensive
research programs in support of these businesses.   

  Exxon Mobil Corporation has several divisions and
hundreds of affiliates, many with names that include    ExxonMobil   ,    Exxon   ,
   Esso, Mobil    or     XTO   . For convenience and simplicity, in this
report the terms    ExxonMobil   ,    Exxon   ,    Esso, Mobil    and    XTO   ,
as well as terms like    Corporation   ,    Company   ,    our   ,    we    
and    its   , are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific
affiliates or groups of affiliates. The precise meaning depends on the context
in question.   

  Throughout ExxonMobil s businesses, new and ongoing
measures are taken to prevent and minimize the impact of our operations on air,
water and ground. These include a significant investment in refining
infrastructure and technology to manufacture clean fuels as well as projects to
monitor and reduce nitrogen oxide, sulfur oxide, and greenhouse gas emissions
and expenditures for asset retirement obligations.  Using definitions and
guidelines established by the American Petroleum Institute, ExxonMobil s 2012
worldwide environmental expenditures for all such preventative and remediation
steps, including ExxonMobil s share of equity company expenditures, were $5.5 billion,
of which $3.5 billion were included in expenses with the remainder in
capital expenditures. The total cost for such activities is expected to have a
modest increase in 2013 and 2014 (with capital expenditures approximately 45
percent of the total).   

  The energy and petrochemical industries are highly
competitive. There is competition within the industries and also with other
industries in supplying the energy, fuel and chemical needs of both industrial
and individual consumers. The Corporation competes with other firms in the sale
or purchase of needed goods and services in many national and international
markets and employs all methods of competition which are lawful and appropriate
for such purposes.   

  Operating data and industry segment information for
the Corporation are contained in the Financial Section of this report under the
following:  Quarterly Information ,  Note 18: Disclosures about Segments
and Related Information  and  Operating Summary . Information on oil and gas
reserves is contained in the  Oil and Gas Reserves  part of the  Supplemental
Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities  portion of
the Financial Section of this report.  

  ExxonMobil has a long-standing commitment to the
development of proprietary technology. We have a wide array of research
programs designed to meet the needs identified in each of our business
segments. Information on Company-sponsored research and development spending is
contained in  Note 3: Miscellaneous Financial Information  of the
Financial Section of this report. ExxonMobil held approximately 11 thousand
active patents worldwide at the end of 2012. For technology licensed to third
parties, revenues totaled approximately $176 million in 2012. Although
technology is an important contributor to the overall operations and results of
our Company, the profitability of each business segment is not dependent on any
individual patent, trade secret, trademark, license, franchise or concession.  

  The number of regular employees was 76.9 thousand, 82.1
thousand and 83.6 thousand at years ended 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
Regular employees are defined as active executive, management, professional,
technical and wage employees who work full time or part time for the
Corporation and are covered by the Corporation s benefit plans and programs.
Regular employees do not include employees of the company-operated retail sites
(CORS). The number of CORS employees was 11.1 thousand, 17.0 thousand and 20.1
thousand at years ended 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

  Information concerning the source and availability of
raw materials used in the Corporation s business, the extent of seasonality in
the business, the possibility of renegotiation of profits or termination of
contracts at the election of governments and risks attendant to foreign
operations may be found in  Item 1A Risk Factors  and  Item 2 Properties  in
this report.   

  ExxonMobil maintains a website at exxonmobil.com. Our
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made
available through our website as soon as reasonably practical after we
electronically file or furnish the reports to the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Also available on the Corporation s website are the Company s
Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, as
well as the charters of the audit, compensation and nominating committees of
the Board of Directors. Information on our website is not incorporated into
this report.  

1       

ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS   

  ExxonMobil s financial and operating
results are subject to a variety of risks inherent in the global oil, gas, and
petrochemical businesses. Many of these risk factors are not within the
Company s control and could adversely affect our business, our financial and
operating results or our financial condition. These risk factors include:   

   Supply and Demand    

  The oil, gas, and petrochemical businesses are
fundamentally commodity businesses. This means ExxonMobil s operations and
earnings may be significantly affected by changes in oil, gas and petrochemical
prices and by changes in margins on refined products. Oil, gas, petrochemical
and product prices and margins in turn depend on local, regional and global
events or conditions that affect supply and demand for the relevant commodity.   

   Economic conditions.    The demand for energy and petrochemicals correlates closely with
general economic growth rates. The occurrence of recessions or other periods of
low or negative economic growth will typically have a direct adverse impact on
our results. Other factors that affect general economic conditions in the world
or in a major region, such as changes in population growth rates, periods of
civil unrest, government austerity programs, or currency exchange rate
fluctuations, can also impact the demand for energy and petrochemicals.
Sovereign debt downgrades, defaults, inability to access debt markets due to
credit or legal constraints, liquidity crises, the breakup or restructuring of
fiscal, monetary, or political systems such as the European Union, and other
events or conditions that impair the functioning of financial markets and
institutions also pose risks to ExxonMobil, including risks to the safety of
our financial assets and to the ability of our partners and customers to
fulfill their commitments to ExxonMobil.   

   Other demand-related factors.    Other factors that may affect the demand for oil, gas
and petrochemicals, and therefore impact our results, include technological
improvements in energy efficiency; seasonal weather patterns, which affect the
demand for energy associated with heating and cooling; increased
competitiveness of alternative energy sources that have so far generally not
been competitive with oil and gas without the benefit of government subsidies
or mandates; and changes in technology or consumer preferences that alter fuel
choices, such as toward alternative fueled vehicles.   

   Other supply-related factors.    Commodity prices and margins also vary depending on a
number of factors affecting supply. For example, increased supply from the development
of new oil and gas supply sources and technologies to enhance recovery from
existing sources tend to reduce commodity prices to the extent such supply
increases are not offset by commensurate growth in demand. Similarly, increases
in industry refining or petrochemical manufacturing capacity tend to reduce
margins on the affected products. World oil, gas, and petrochemical supply
levels can also be affected by factors that reduce available supplies, such as
adherence by member countries to OPEC production quotas and the occurrence of
wars, hostile actions, natural disasters, disruptions in competitors 
operations, or unexpected unavailability of distribution channels that may
disrupt supplies. Technological change can also alter the relative costs for
competitors to find, produce, and refine oil and gas and to manufacture
petrochemicals.   

   Other market factors.    ExxonMobil s business results are also exposed to
potential negative impacts due to changes in interest rates, inflation,
currency exchange rates, and other local or regional market conditions. We
generally do not use financial instruments to hedge market exposures.   

   Government and Political Factors    

  ExxonMobil s results can be adversely affected by
political or regulatory developments affecting our operations.   

   Access limitations.    A number of countries limit access to their oil and gas resources, or
may place resources off-limits from development altogether. Restrictions on
foreign investment in the oil and gas sector tend to increase in times of high
commodity prices, when national governments may have less need of outside
sources of private capital. Many countries also restrict the import or export
of certain products based on point of origin.   

   Restrictions on doing business.    As a U.S. company, ExxonMobil is subject to laws
prohibiting U.S. companies from doing business in certain countries, or
restricting the kind of business that may be conducted. Such restrictions may
provide a competitive advantage to our non-U.S. competitors unless their own
home countries impose comparable restrictions.   

   Lack of legal certainty.    Some countries in which we do business lack
well-developed legal systems, or have not yet adopted clear regulatory
frameworks for oil and gas development. Lack of legal certainty exposes our
operations to increased risk of adverse or unpredictable actions by government
officials, and also makes it more difficult for us to enforce our contracts. In
some cases these risks can be partially offset by agreements to arbitrate
disputes in an international forum, but the adequacy of this remedy may still
depend on the local legal system to enforce an award.   

2       

Regulatory and litigation risks.    Even in countries with well-developed legal
systems where ExxonMobil does business, we remain exposed to changes in law
(including changes that result from international treaties and accords) that
could adversely affect our results, such as:   

increases in taxes or government royalty rates
  (including retroactive claims);  

price controls;  

changes in environmental regulations or other laws
  that increase our cost of compliance or reduce or delay available business
  opportunities (including changes in laws related to offshore drilling
  operations, water use, or hydraulic fracturing);  

adoption of regulations mandating the use of
  alternative fuels or uncompetitive fuel components;  

adoption of government payment transparency
  regulations that could require us to disclose competitively sensitive
  commercial information, or that could cause us to violate the non-disclosure
  laws of other countries; and  

government actions to cancel contracts,
  re-denominate the official currency, renounce or default on obligations,
  renegotiate terms unilaterally, or expropriate assets.  

Legal remedies available to compensate us for
expropriation or other takings may be inadequate.   

  We also may be adversely affected by the outcome of
litigation or other legal proceedings, especially in countries such as the
United States in which very large and unpredictable punitive damage awards may
occur.   

   Security concerns.    Successful operation of particular facilities or projects may be
disrupted by civil unrest, acts of sabotage or terrorism, and other local
security concerns. Such concerns may require us to incur greater costs for
security or to shut down operations for a period of time.   

   Climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions.    Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a
number of countries have adopted, or are considering the adoption of,
regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These include
adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, restrictive permitting,
increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable
energy. These requirements could make our products more expensive, lengthen project
implementation times, and reduce demand for hydrocarbons, as well as shift
hydrocarbon demand toward relatively lower-carbon sources such as natural gas.
Current and pending greenhouse gas regulations may also increase our compliance
costs, such as for monitoring or sequestering emissions.   

   Government sponsorship of alternative energy.    Many governments are providing tax advantages and
other subsidies to support alternative energy sources or are mandating the use
of specific fuels or technologies. Governments are also promoting research into
new technologies to reduce the cost and increase the scalability of alternative
energy sources. We are conducting our own research efforts into alternative
energy, such as through sponsorship of the Global Climate and Energy Project at
Stanford University and research into fuel-producing algae. Our future results
may depend in part on the success of our research efforts and on our ability to
adapt and apply the strengths of our current business model to providing the energy
products of the future in a cost-competitive manner. See  Management
Effectiveness  below.   

   Management Effectiveness    

  In addition to external economic and political
factors, our future business results also depend on our ability to manage
successfully those factors that are at least in part within our control. The
extent to which we manage these factors will impact our performance relative to
competition. For projects in which we are not the operator, we depend on the
management effectiveness of one or more co-venturers whom we do not control.   

   Exploration and development program.    Our ability to maintain and grow our oil and gas
production depends on the success of our exploration and development efforts.
Among other factors, we must continuously improve our ability to identify the
most promising resource prospects and apply our project management expertise to
bring discovered resources on line on schedule and within budget.   

   Project management.    The success of ExxonMobil s Upstream, Downstream, and Chemical
businesses depends on complex, long-term, capital intensive projects. These
projects in turn require a high degree of project management expertise to
maximize efficiency. Specific factors that can affect the performance of major
projects include our ability to: negotiate successfully with joint venturers,
partners, governments, suppliers, customers, or others; model and optimize
reservoir performance; develop markets for project outputs, whether through
long-term contracts or the development of effective spot markets; manage
changes in operating conditions and costs, including costs of third party
equipment or services such as drilling rigs and shipping; prevent, to the
extent possible, and respond effectively to unforeseen technical difficulties
that could delay project startup or cause unscheduled project downtime; and
influence the performance of project operators where ExxonMobil does not
perform that role.   

3       

The term  project  as used in this report does not
necessarily have the same meaning as under SEC Rule 13q-1 relating to
government payment reporting.  For example, a single project for purposes of
the rule may encompass numerous properties, agreements, investments,
developments, phases, work efforts, activities, and components, each of which we
may also informally describe as a  project .  

   Operational efficiency.    An important component of ExxonMobil s competitive
performance, especially given the commodity-based nature of many of our
businesses, is our ability to operate efficiently, including our ability to
manage expenses and improve production yields on an ongoing basis. This
requires continuous management focus, including technology improvements, cost
control, productivity enhancements, regular reappraisal of our asset portfolio,
and the recruitment, development and retention of high caliber employees.   

   Research and development.    To maintain our competitive position, especially in
light of the technological nature of our businesses and the need for continuous
efficiency improvement, ExxonMobil s research and development organizations
must be successful and able to adapt to a changing market and policy
environment.   

   Safety, business controls, and environmental risk
management.    Our results depend on
management s ability to minimize the inherent risks of oil, gas, and
petrochemical operations, to control effectively our business activities and to
minimize the potential for human error. We apply rigorous management systems
and continuous focus to workplace safety and to avoiding spills or other adverse
environmental events. For example, we work to minimize spills through a
combined program of effective operations integrity management, ongoing
upgrades, key equipment replacements, and comprehensive inspection and
surveillance. Similarly, we are implementing cost-effective new technologies
and adopting new operating practices to reduce air emissions, not only in
response to government requirements but also to address community priorities.
We also maintain a disciplined framework of internal controls and apply a
controls management system for monitoring compliance with this framework.
Substantial liabilities and other adverse impacts could result if our
management systems and controls do not function as intended. The ability to
insure against such risks is limited by the capacity of the applicable
insurance markets, which may not be sufficient.   

  Business risks also include the risk of cybersecurity
breaches. If our systems for protecting against cybersecurity risks prove not
to be sufficient, ExxonMobil could be adversely affected such as by having its
business systems compromised, its proprietary information altered, lost or
stolen, or its business operations disrupted.   

   Preparedness.   
Our operations may be disrupted by severe weather events, natural disasters,
human error, and similar events. For example, hurricanes may damage our
offshore production facilities or coastal refining and petrochemical plants in
vulnerable areas. Our ability to mitigate the adverse impacts of these events
depends in part upon the effectiveness of our rigorous disaster preparedness
and response planning, as well as business continuity planning.   

  Projections, estimates and descriptions of
ExxonMobil s plans and objectives included or incorporated in Items 1, 1A, 2, 7
and 7A of this report are forward-looking statements. Actual future results,
including project completion dates, production rates, capital expenditures,
costs and business plans could differ materially due to, among other things,
the factors discussed above and elsewhere in this report.   

ITEM 1B.  UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS   

  None.   

4       

Item 2.  
    Properties   

   Information with regard to oil and gas
producing activities follows:    

1. Disclosure of Reserves    

   A. Summary of Oil and Gas Reserves at
Year-End 2012    

  The table below summarizes the oil-equivalent proved
reserves in each geographic area and by product type for consolidated
subsidiaries and equity companies. The Corporation has reported proved reserves
on the basis of the average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month
during the last 12-month period. Gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at
six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels. No major discovery or other
favorable or adverse event has occurred since December 31, 2012, that would
cause a significant change in the estimated proved reserves as of that date.   

(1)   South America includes proved
developed reserves of 0.4 million barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids
and 57 billion cubic feet of natural gas and proved undeveloped reserves of 0.6
million barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids and 65 billion cubic
feet of natural gas.    

5       

In the preceding reserves information, consolidated
subsidiary and equity company reserves are reported separately. However, the
Corporation operates its business with the same view of equity company reserves
as it has for reserves from consolidated subsidiaries.   

  The Corporation s overall volume capacity outlook,
based on projects coming on stream as anticipated, is for production capacity
to grow over the period 2013-2017. However, actual volumes will vary from year
to year due to the timing of individual project start-ups, operational outages,
reservoir performance, regulatory changes, asset sales, weather events, price
effects on production sharing contracts and other factors as described in Item
1A Risk Factors of this report.   

  The estimation of proved reserves, which is based on
the requirement of reasonable certainty, is an ongoing process based on
rigorous technical evaluations, commercial and market assessments and detailed
analysis of well and reservoir information such as flow rates and reservoir
pressure declines. Furthermore, the Corporation only records proved reserves
for projects which have received significant funding commitments by management
made toward the development of the reserves. Although the Corporation is
reasonably certain that proved reserves will be produced, the timing and amount
recovered can be affected by a number of factors including completion of
development projects, reservoir performance, regulatory approvals and
significant changes in projections of long-term oil and gas price levels.   

   B. Technologies Used in Establishing Proved
Reserves Additions in 2012    

  Additions to ExxonMobil s proved reserves in 2012 were
based on estimates generated through the integration of available and
appropriate geological, engineering and production data, utilizing
well-established technologies that have been demonstrated in the field to yield
repeatable and consistent results.   

  Data used in these integrated assessments included
information obtained directly from the subsurface via wellbores, such as well
logs, reservoir core samples, fluid samples, static and dynamic pressure
information, production test data, and surveillance and performance
information. The data utilized also included subsurface information obtained
through indirect measurements including high-quality 2-D and 3-D seismic data,
calibrated with available well control information. The tools used to interpret
the data included proprietary seismic processing software, proprietary
reservoir modeling and simulation software, and commercially available data
analysis packages.   

  In some circumstances, where appropriate analog
reservoirs were available, reservoir parameters from these analogs were used to
increase the quality of and confidence in the reserves estimates.   

   C. Qualifications of Reserves
Technical Oversight Group and Internal Controls over Proved Reserves    

  ExxonMobil has a dedicated Global Reserves group that provides
technical oversight and is separate from the operating organization. Primary
responsibilities of this group include oversight of the reserves estimation process
for compliance with Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules and
regulations, review of annual changes in reserves estimates, and the reporting
of ExxonMobil s proved reserves. This group also maintains the official company
reserves estimates for ExxonMobil s proved reserves of crude and natural gas
liquids, bitumen, synthetic oil and natural gas. In addition, the group
provides training to personnel involved in the reserves estimation and
reporting process within ExxonMobil and its affiliates. The group is managed by
and staffed with individuals that have an average of more than 20 years of
technical experience in the petroleum industry, including expertise in the
classification and categorization of reserves under the SEC guidelines. This group
includes individuals who hold advanced degrees in either Engineering or
Geology. Several members of the group hold professional registrations in their
field of expertise, and several have served on the Oil and Gas Reserves
Committee of the Society of Petroleum Engineers.   

  The Global Reserves group maintains a central database
containing the official company global reserves estimates. Appropriate
controls, including limitations on database access and update capabilities, are
in place to ensure data integrity within this central database. An annual
review of the system s controls is performed by internal audit. Key components
of the reserves estimation process include technical evaluations and analysis
of well and field performance and a rigorous peer review. No changes may be
made to the reserves estimates in the central database, including additions of
any new initial reserves estimates or subsequent revisions, unless these
changes have been thoroughly reviewed and evaluated by duly authorized
personnel within the operating organization. In addition, changes to reserves
estimates that exceed certain thresholds require further review and approval of
the appropriate level of management within the operating organization before
the changes may be made in the central database. Endorsement by the Global Reserves
group for all proved reserves changes is a mandatory component of this review
process. After all changes are made, reviews are held with senior management
for final endorsement.   

2. Proved Undeveloped
Reserves    

  At year-end 2012, approximately 9.9 billion
oil-equivalent barrels (GOEB) of ExxonMobil s proved reserves were classified
as proved undeveloped. This represents 39 percent of the 25.2 GOEB reported in
proved reserves. This compares to the 8.8 GOEB of proved undeveloped reserves
reported at the end of 2011. The net increase is primarily due to the addition
of new projects in      

6       

Canada and the United States. During
the year, ExxonMobil conducted development activities in over 100 fields that
resulted in the transfer of approximately 0.5 GOEB from proved undeveloped to
proved developed reserves by year-end. The largest transfers were related to
completion of drilling and the initiation of production activities in
unconventional fields in the United States and on new pad locations in the Cold
Lake field in Canada.   

  One of ExxonMobil s requirements for reporting proved
reserves is that management has made significant funding commitments toward the
development of the reserves. ExxonMobil has a disciplined investment strategy
and many major fields require long lead-time in order to be developed.
Development projects typically take two to four years from the time of first
recording of proved reserves to the start of production of these reserves.
However, the development time for large and complex projects can exceed five
years. During 2012, discoveries and extensions related to new projects added
approximately 1.3 GOEB of proved undeveloped reserves. The largest of these
additions were related to planned drilling in the United States. Overall,
investments of $24.8 billion were made by the Corporation during 2012 to
progress the development of reported proved undeveloped reserves, including $21.7
billion for oil and gas producing activities and an additional $3.1 billion for
other non-oil and gas producing activities such as the construction of support
infrastructure and other related facilities that were undertaken to progress
the development of proved undeveloped reserves. These investments represented 69
percent of the $36.1 billion in total reported Upstream capital and exploration
expenditures.   

  Proved undeveloped reserves in Canada, Kazakhstan, the
United States, and the Netherlands have remained undeveloped for five years or
more primarily due to constraints on the capacity of infrastructure and the
pace of co-venturer/government funding, as well as the time required to
complete development for very large projects. The Corporation is reasonably
certain that these proved reserves will be produced; however, the timing and
amount recovered can be affected by a number of factors including completion of
development projects, reservoir performance and regulatory approvals. Of the
proved undeveloped reserves that have been reported for five or more years, 57
percent are contained in four fields in Canada, Kazakhstan and the Netherlands.
The largest of these is related to the Kearl project in Canada, where
construction of the initial development was completed during 2012 and phased
start-up activities were under way. In Kazakhstan, the proved undeveloped reserves
are related to the initial development of the offshore Kashagan field which is
included in the North Caspian Production Sharing Agreement and the Tengizchevroil
joint venture which includes a production license in the Tengiz   Korolev field
complex. The Tengizchevroil joint venture is producing, and proved undeveloped
reserves will continue to move to proved developed as approved development
phases progress. The fourth field is the Groningen gas field in the Netherlands.
Proved undeveloped reserves reported for this field are related to installation
of future stages of compression. These reserves will move to proved developed
when the additional stages of compression are installed to maintain field
delivery pressure. The remainder of proved undeveloped reserves are contained
in over 140 fields in 16 countries.   

7       

3. Oil and Gas
Production, Production Prices and Production Costs    

   A. Oil and Gas Production    

  The table below summarizes production by
final product sold and by geographic area for the last three years.   

(1)   South America includes liquids
production for 2012, 2011 and 2010 of one thousand barrels daily for each year and
natural gas production available for sale for 2012, 2011 and 2010 of 38 million,
45 million, and 52 million cubic feet daily, respectively.    

8       

B. Production Prices
and Production Costs    

  The table below summarizes average
production prices and average production costs by geographic area and by
product type for the last three years.   

9       

Average production prices have been calculated by
using sales quantities from the Corporation s own production as the divisor.
Average production costs have been computed by using net production quantities
for the divisor. The volumes of crude oil and natural gas liquids (NGL)
production used for this computation are shown in the oil and gas production
table in section 3.A. The volumes of natural gas used in the calculation are
the production volumes of natural gas available for sale and are also shown in
section 3.A. The natural gas available for sale volumes are different from
those shown in the reserves table in the  Oil and Gas Reserves  part of the
 Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities 
portion of the Financial Section of this report due to volumes consumed or
flared. Gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet
per one thousand barrels.   

10       

4. Drilling and Other
Exploratory and Development Activities    

   A. Number of Net Productive and Dry
Wells Drilled    

11       

12       

B. Exploratory and Development Activities Regarding
Oil and Gas Resources Extracted by Mining Technologies    

   Syncrude Operations.    Syncrude is a joint venture established to recover
shallow deposits of oil sands using open-pit mining methods to extract the
crude bitumen, and then upgrade it to produce a high-quality, light (32 degrees
API), sweet, synthetic crude oil. Imperial Oil Limited is the owner of a 25
percent interest in the joint venture. Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6
percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited. In 2012, the company s share of net
production of synthetic crude oil was about 69 thousand barrels per day and
share of net acreage was about 63 thousand acres in the Athabasca oil
sands deposit.   

   Kearl Project.    The Kearl project is a joint venture established to
recover shallow deposits of oil sands using open-pit mining methods to extract
the crude bitumen. Imperial Oil Limited holds a 70.96 percent interest in the
joint venture and ExxonMobil Canada Properties holds the other 29.04 percent.
Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6 percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited and
a 100 percent interest in ExxonMobil Canada Properties. Kearl is comprised of
six oil sands leases covering about 48 thousand acres in the Athabasca oil
sands deposit.   

  The Kearl project is located approximately 40 miles
north of Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada, and is expected to be developed in two
phases. Bitumen will be extracted from oil sands produced from open-pit mining
operations, and processed through a bitumen extraction and froth treatment
plant. The product, a blend of bitumen and diluent, is planned to be shipped
via pipelines for distribution to North American markets. Diluent is natural
gas condensate or other light hydrocarbons added to the crude bitumen to
facilitate transportation to market by pipeline. At year-end 2012, the
construction of the initial development of the Kearl project was complete and
phased start-up activities were under way. Construction on the Kearl Expansion
project continued during 2012.   

5. Present Activities

A. Wells Drilling    

B. Review of Principal Ongoing
Activities    

    UNITED STATES     

  ExxonMobil s year-end 2012 acreage holdings totaled 15.6 million
net acres, of   which 2.2 million   net acres were offshore. ExxonMobil was active in areas
onshore and offshore in the lower 48 states and in Alaska  .    

  During 2012,   1,142.7    net exploration and development wells were completed in
the inland lower 48 states  . Development activities focused on the San Joaquin Basin of California, the Woodford Shale of
Oklahoma, the Bakken oil play in North Dakota and Montana, the Permian Basin of
West Texas and New Mexico, the Marcellus Shale of Pennsylvania and West
Virginia, the Haynesville Shale of Texas and Louisiana, the Barnett Shale of
North Texas,     the Fayetteville Shale of Arkansas,
and the Freestone Trend of East Texas.   

  ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Gulf of Mexico at year-end
2012 was 2.1 million acres. A   total of
2.6     net exploration
and development wells were completed during the year. Development activities
continued on the deepwater Hadrian South project and the non-operated Lucius
project  .    

13       

Participation in Alaska
production and development continued with a total of 15.0 net development wells
completed. The Point Thomson project was funded by ExxonMobil in 2012.   

    CANADA / SOUTH AMERICA          

   Canada    

   Oil
and Gas Operations:    ExxonMobil's year-end 2012 acreage holdings totaled
5.2 million net acres, of which 1.5 million net acres were offshore. A total of
44.1 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. The
Hebron project, located offshore Newfoundland, was funded in 2012. ExxonMobil
entered into an agreement in 2012 to acquire Celtic Exploration Ltd.   

   In Situ
Bitumen Operations:        ExxonMobil's year-end 2012 in situ bitumen acreage
holdings totaled 0.5 million net onshore acres. A total of 31.0 net development
wells were completed during the year. The
Cold Lake Nabiye Expansion project was funded in 2012.  

   Argentina    

  ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 1.0 million onshore
acres at year-end 2012, and there was 0.5 net development well completed during
the year.   

   Venezuela    

  ExxonMobil s acreage holdings and assets were
expropriated in 2007. Refer to the relevant portion of  Note 16: Litigation and
Other Contingencies  of the Financial Section of this report for additional
information.   

    EUROPE     

   Germany    

  A total of 4.9 million net onshore acres and 0.1
million net offshore acres were held by ExxonMobil at year-end 2012, with 6.1
net exploration and development wells completed during the year.   

   Netherlands    

  ExxonMobil s net interest in licenses totaled
approximately 1.5 million acres at year-end 2012, of which 1.2 million acres
are onshore. A total of 5.7 net exploration and development wells were
completed during the year.   

   Norway    

  ExxonMobil's net interest in licenses at year-end 2012
totaled approximately 1.0 million acres, all offshore. A total of 6.2 net
exploration and development wells were completed in 2012.   

   United Kingdom    

  ExxonMobil s net interest in licenses at year-end 2012
totaled approximately 0.4 million acres, all offshore. A total of 0.9 net
development wells were completed during the year. The offshore Fram project was
funded in 2012.   

    AFRICA     

   Angola    

  ExxonMobil s year-end 2012 acreage holdings totaled
0.4 million net offshore acres and 5.4     net
exploration and development wells were completed during the year. On Block 15,
Kizomba Satellites Phase 1 started up, and Kizomba Satellites Phase 2 was
funded in 2012. On the non-operated Block 17, work continued on the
Cravo-Lirio-Orquidea-Violeta project. ExxonMobil sold its interest in the
non-operated Block 31 in 2012.   

   Chad    

  ExxonMobil s net year-end 2012 acreage
holdings consisted of 46 thousand onshore acres, with 26.8 net development
wells completed during the year  .    

   Equatorial Guinea    

  ExxonMobil s acreage totaled 0.1 million net offshore
acres at year-end 2012.   

14       

Nigeria    

  ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 0.9 million offshore
acres at year-end 2012, with 7.8 net exploration and development wells
completed during the year. The Satellite Field Development Phase 1 and the
deepwater Usan projects started up in 2012.

ASIA     

   Azerbaijan    

  At year-end 2012, ExxonMobil s net acreage
totaled 9 thousand offshore acres. A total of 0.4 net development wells were
completed during the year. Work continued on the Chirag Oil project  .    

   Indonesia    

  At year-end 2012, ExxonMobil
had 5.5 million net acres, 3.4 million net acres offshore and 2.1 million net
acres onshore. A total of 2.3 net exploration wells were completed during the
year. Project work continued on the full field development at Banyu Urip  .    

   Iraq    

  At year-end 2012, ExxonMobil s onshore
acreage was 0.9 million net acres. A total of 21.6 net development wells
were completed at the West Qurna Phase I oil field during the year. In 2010, a
contract was signed with South Oil Company of the Iraqi Ministry of Oil to
redevelop and expand the West Qurna Phase I oil field. The term of the contract
is 20 years with the right to extend for five years. In 2010 initial field
rehabilitation activities commenced. Field rehabilitation activities continued
during 2012, and     across the life of this project
will include drilling of new wells, working over of existing wells,
optimization and debottlenecking of existing facilities, and the establishment
of field offices and camps.   

      Production sharing contracts were
negotiated with the regional government of Kurdistan in 2011, and planning of
activities continued during 2012.   

   Kazakhstan    

  ExxonMobil s net acreage  
totaled 0.1 million acres onshore and 0.2 million acres offshore at year-end
2012. A total of 0.2 net development wells were completed during 2012. Working
with our partners, construction of the initial phase of the Kashagan field
continued during 2012  .    

   Malaysia    

  ExxonMobil has interests in production sharing
contracts covering 0.4 million net acres offshore at year-end 2012.  During the
year, a total of 6.9 net exploration and development wells were completed. The
Damar project was funded in 2012, and work continued on the Tapis and Telok
projects.   

   Qatar    

  Through our joint ventures with Qatar Petroleum,
ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 65 thousand acres offshore at year-end 2012.
During the year, a total of 1.4 net development wells were completed. ExxonMobil
participated in 61.8 million tonnes per year gross liquefied natural gas
capacity at year end. Development activities continued on the Barzan project.   

   Republic of Yemen    

  ExxonMobil's net acreage in the Republic of Yemen
production sharing areas totaled 10 thousand acres onshore at year-end 2012.    

   Russia    

  ExxonMobil s net acreage holdings at
year-end 2012 were 85 thousand acres, all offshore. A total of 0.6 net
development wells were completed. Development activities continued on the Arkutun-Dagi
project during 2012.   

      ExxonMobil and Rosneft signed a
Strategic Cooperation Agreement in 2011 to jointly participate in exploration
and development activities in Russia, the United States and other parts of the
world. In 2012 ExxonMobil and Rosneft signed a Pilot Development Agreement to
evaluate the development of tight-oil reserves in western Siberia and signed an
agreement to establish a joint Arctic Research Center.   

   Thailand    

  ExxonMobil s net onshore acreage in Thailand
concessions totaled 21 thousand acres at year-end 2012.   

15       

United Arab
Emirates    

  ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Abu Dhabi offshore
Upper Zakum oil concession was 81 thousand acres at year-end 2012, with 0.6 net
development wells completed during the year.

ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Abu Dhabi onshore oil
concession was 0.5 million acres at year-end 2012, of which 0.4 million acres
are onshore.  During the year, a total of 5.6 net development wells were
completed.   

    AUSTRALIA / OCEANIA     

   Australia    

  ExxonMobil s year-end 2012 acreage holdings totaled
1.8 million net acres, of which 1.6 million net acres were offshore. During the
year, a total of 1.1 net exploration wells were completed.    

  Project construction activity for the co-venturer
operated Gorgon liquefied natural gas (LNG) project progressed in 2012. The
project consists of a subsea infrastructure for offshore production and
transportation of the gas, and a 15.6 million tonnes per year LNG facility and
a 280 million cubic feet per day domestic gas plant located on Barrow Island,
Western Australia.   

   Papua New Guinea    

  A   total
of 0.9 million net onshore acres were held by ExxonMobil at year-end 2012, with
1.3 net exploration and development wells completed during the year. Work
continued on the Papua New Guinea (PNG) LNG project. The project consists of
conditioning facilities in the southern PNG Highlands, a 6.9 million tonnes per
year     LNG facility near Port Moresby and
approximately 434 miles of onshore and offshore pipelines.   

    WORLDWIDE EXPLORATION     

  At year-end 2012, exploration activities were under
way in several areas in which ExxonMobil has no established production
operations and thus are not included above.  A total of 35.3 million net acres
were held at year-end 2012, and 2.1     net
exploration wells were completed during the year in these countries.   

6.
Delivery Commitments    

  ExxonMobil
sells crude oil and natural gas from its producing operations under a variety
of contractual obligations, some of which may specify the delivery of a fixed
and determinable quantity for periods longer than one year. ExxonMobil also
enters into natural gas sales contracts where the source of the natural gas
used to fulfill the contract can be a combination of our own production and the
spot market. Worldwide, we are contractually committed to deliver approximately
3,000 billion cubic feet of natural gas for the period from 2013 through 2015.
We expect to fulfill the majority of these delivery commitments with production
from our proved developed reserves. Any remaining commitments will be fulfilled
with production from our proved undeveloped reserves and spot market purchases
as necessary.  

16       

7. Oil and Gas
Properties, Wells, Operations and Acreage    

   A. Gross and Net Productive Wells    

There were 37,228 gross and 31,264 net operated wells
at year-end 2012 and 37,692 gross and 31,683 net operated wells at year-end 2011.
The number of wells with multiple completions was 1,647 gross in 2012 and 1,775
gross in 2011.   

17       

B. Gross and Net
Developed Acreage        

(1)   Includes developed acreage in
South America of 618 gross and 202 net thousands of acres for 2012 and 2011.    

  Separate acreage data for oil and gas are not
maintained because, in many instances, both are produced from the same acreage.

C. Gross and Net
Undeveloped Acreage   

(1)   Includes undeveloped acreage in
South America of 8,412 gross and 4,484 net thousands of acres for 2012 and 10,922
gross and 5,680 net thousands of acres for 2011.    

  ExxonMobil s investment in developed and undeveloped
acreage is comprised of numerous concessions, blocks and leases. The terms and
conditions under which the Corporation maintains exploration and/or production
rights to the acreage are property-specific, contractually defined and vary
significantly from property to property. Work programs are designed to ensure
that the exploration potential of any property is fully evaluated before
expiration. In some instances, the Corporation may elect to relinquish acreage
in advance of the contractual expiration date if the evaluation process is
complete and there is not a business basis for extension. In cases where
additional time may be required to fully evaluate acreage, the Corporation has
generally been successful in obtaining extensions. The scheduled expiration of
leases and concessions for undeveloped acreage over the next three years is not
expected to have a material adverse impact on the Corporation.   

18       

D. Summary of Acreage
Terms    

    UNITED STATES     

  Oil and gas leases have an exploration period ranging
from one to ten years, and a production period that normally remains in effect
until production ceases. Under certain circumstances, a lease may be held
beyond its exploration term even if production has not commenced. In some
instances, a  fee interest  is acquired where both the surface and the
underlying mineral interests are owned outright.   

    CANADA / SOUTH AMERICA     

   Canada    

  Exploration licenses or leases in onshore areas are acquired
for varying periods of time with renewals or extensions possible. These
licenses or leases entitle the holder to continue existing licenses or leases
upon completing specified work. In general, these license and lease agreements
are held as long as there is production on the licenses and leases. Exploration
licenses in offshore eastern Canada and the Beaufort Sea are held by work
commitments of various amounts and rentals. They are valid for a maximum term
of nine years. Production licenses in the offshore are valid for 25 years, with
rights of extension for continued production. Significant discovery licenses in
the offshore, relating to currently undeveloped discoveries, do not have a
definite term.   

   Argentina    

  The federal onshore concession terms in Argentina are
up to four years for the initial exploration period, up to three years for the
second exploration period and up to two years for the third exploration period.
A 50-percent relinquishment is required after each exploration period. An extension
after the third exploration period is possible for up to five years. The total
production term is 25 years with a ten-year extension possible, once a field
has been developed. Argentine provinces are entitled to modify the concession
terms granted within their territories. The concession terms of the exploration
permits granted by Neuquen Province are up to six years for the initial
exploration period, up to four years for the second exploration period and up
to three years for the third exploration period depending on the classification
of the area. An extension after the third exploration period is possible for up
to one year.   

    EUROPE     

   Germany    

  Exploration concessions are granted for an initial
maximum period of five years, with an unlimited number of extensions of up to
three years each. Extensions are subject to specific, minimum work commitments.
Production licenses are normally granted for 20 to 25 years with multiple
possible extensions as long as there is production on the license.   

   Netherlands    

  Under the Mining Law, effective January 1, 2003,
exploration and production licenses for both onshore and offshore areas are
issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license. The term is based on
the period of time necessary to perform the activities for which the license is
issued. License conditions are stipulated in the license and are based on the
Mining Law.   

  Production rights granted prior to January 1, 2003,
remain subject to their existing terms, and differ slightly for onshore and
offshore areas. Onshore production licenses issued prior to 1988 were
indefinite; from 1988 they were issued for a period as explicitly defined in
the license, ranging from 35 to 45 years. Offshore production licenses issued
before 1976 were issued for a fixed period of 40 years; from 1976 they were
again issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license, ranging from 15
to 40 years.   

   Norway    

  Licenses issued prior to 1972 were for an initial
period of six years and an extension period of 40 years, with relinquishment of
at least one-fourth of the original area required at the end of the sixth year
and another one-fourth at the end of the ninth year. Licenses issued between
1972 and 1997 were for an initial period of up to six years (with extension of
the initial period of one year at a time up to ten years after 1985), and an
extension period of up to 30 years, with relinquishment of at least one-half of
the original area required at the end of the initial period. Licenses issued
after July 1, 1997, have an initial period of up to ten years and a normal
extension period of up to 30 years or in special cases of up to 50 years, and
with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the
end of the initial period.  

19       

United
Kingdom    

  Acreage terms are fixed by the government and are
periodically changed. For example, many of the early licenses issued under the
first four licensing rounds provided for an initial term of six years with
relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area at the end of the
initial term, subject to extension for a further 40 years. At the end of any
such 40-year term, licenses may continue in producing areas until cessation of
production; or licenses may continue in development areas for periods agreed on
a case-by-case basis until they become producing areas; or licenses terminate
in all other areas. The licensing regime was last updated in 2002, and the
majority of licenses issued have an initial term of four years with a second
term extension of four years and a final term of 18 years with a mandatory
relinquishment of 50 percent of the acreage after the initial term and of all
acreage that is not covered by a development plan at the end of the second term.

AFRICA     

   Angola    

  Exploration and production activities are governed by
production sharing agreements with an initial exploration term of four years
and an optional second phase of two to three years. The production period is
for 25 years, and agreements generally provide for a negotiated extension.   

   Chad    

  Exploration permits are issued for a period of five
years, and are renewable for one or two further five-year periods. The terms
and conditions of the permits, including relinquishment obligations, are
specified in a negotiated convention. The production term is for 30 years and
may be extended at the discretion of the government.   

   Equatorial Guinea    

  Exploration and production activities are governed by
production sharing contracts negotiated with the State Ministry of Mines,
Industry and Energy. The exploration periods are for ten to 15 years with
limited relinquishments in the absence of commercial discoveries. The
production period for crude oil is 30 years, while the production period for
gas is 50 years. Under the Hydrocarbons Law enacted in 2006, the exploration
terms for new production sharing contracts are four to five years with a
maximum of two one-year extensions, unless the Ministry agrees otherwise.   

   Nigeria    

  Exploration and production activities in the deepwater
offshore areas are typically governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs)
with the national oil company, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation
(NNPC). NNPC holds the underlying Oil Prospecting License (OPL) and any
resulting Oil Mining Lease (OML). The terms of the PSCs are generally 30 years,
including a ten-year exploration period (an initial exploration phase plus one
or two optional periods) covered by an OPL. Upon commercial discovery, an OPL
may be converted to an OML. Partial relinquishment is required under the PSC at
the end of the ten-year exploration period, and OMLs have a 20-year production
period that may be extended.   

  Some exploration activities are carried out in
deepwater by joint ventures with local companies holding interests in an OPL.
OPLs in deepwater offshore areas are valid for ten years and are non-renewable,
while in all other areas the licenses are for five years and also are
non-renewable. Demonstrating a commercial discovery is the basis for conversion
of an OPL to an OML.   

  OMLs granted prior to the 1969 Petroleum Act (i.e.,
under the Mineral Oils Act 1914, repealed by the 1969 Petroleum Act) were for
30 years onshore and 40 years in offshore areas and have been renewed,
effective December 1, 2008, for a further period of 20 years, with a further
renewal option of 20 years. Operations under these pre-1969 OMLs are conducted
under a joint venture agreement with NNPC rather than a PSC. In 2000, a
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was executed defining commercial terms
applicable to existing joint venture oil production. The MOU may be terminated
on one calendar year s notice.   

  OMLs granted under the 1969 Petroleum Act, which
include all deepwater OMLs, have a maximum term of 20 years without distinction
for onshore or offshore location and are renewable, upon 12 months  written
notice, for another period of 20 years. OMLs not held by NNPC are also subject
to a mandatory 50-percent relinquishment after the first ten years of their
duration.   

20       

ASIA     

   Azerbaijan    

  The production sharing agreement (PSA) for the
development of the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli field is established for an initial
period of 30 years starting from the PSA execution date in 1994.   

  Other exploration and production activities are
governed by PSAs negotiated with the national oil company of Azerbaijan. The
exploration period consists of three or four years with the possibility of a
one to three-year extension. The production period, which includes development,
is for 25 years or 35 years with the possibility of one or two five-year
extensions.   

   Indonesia    

  Exploration and production activities in Indonesia are
generally governed by cooperation contracts, usually in the form of a
production sharing contract (PSC), negotiated with BPMIGAS, a government agency
established in 2002 to manage upstream oil and gas activities. In 2012,
Indonesia s Constitutional Court ruled certain articles of law relating to
BPMIGAS to be unconstitutional, but stated that all existing PSCs signed with
BPMIGAS should remain in force until their expiry, and the functions and duties
previously performed by BPMIGAS are to be carried out by the relevant Ministry
of the Government of Indonesia until the promulgation of a new oil and gas law.
The current PSCs have an exploration period of six years, which can be extended
up to 10 years, and an exploitation period of 20 years. PSCs generally require
the contractor to relinquish 10 percent to 20 percent of the contract area
after three years and generally allow the contractor to retain no more than 50
percent to 80 percent of the original contract area after six years, depending
on the acreage and terms.   

   Iraq    

  Development and production activities in the
state-owned oil and gas fields are governed by contracts with regional oil
companies of the Iraqi Ministry of Oil. An ExxonMobil affiliate entered into a
contract with South Oil Company of the Iraqi Ministry of Oil for the rights to
participate in the development and production activities of the West Qurna
Phase I oil and gas field effective March 1, 2010. The term of the
contract is 20 years with the right to extend for five years. The contract
provides for cost recovery plus per-barrel fees for incremental production
above specified levels.   

  Exploration and production activities in the Kurdistan
region of Iraq are governed by production sharing contracts negotiated with the
regional government of Kurdistan in 2011. The exploration term is for five
years with the possibility of two-year extensions. The production period is 20
years with the right to extend for five years.   

   Kazakhstan    

  Onshore exploration and production activities are
governed by the production license, exploration license and joint venture
agreements negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. Existing production
operations have a 40-year production period that commenced in 1993.   

  Offshore exploration and production activities are
governed by a production sharing agreement negotiated with the Republic of
Kazakhstan. The exploration period is six years followed by separate appraisal
periods for each discovery. The production period for each discovery, which
includes development, is for 20 years from the date of declaration of
commerciality with the possibility of two ten-year extensions.   

   Malaysia    

  Exploration and production activities are governed by
production sharing contracts (PSCs) negotiated with the national oil company.
The more recent PSCs governing exploration and production activities have an
overall term of 24 to 38 years, depending on water depth, with possible
extensions to the exploration and/or development periods. The exploration
period is five to seven years with the possibility of extensions, after which
time areas with no commercial discoveries will be deemed relinquished. The
development period is from four to six years from commercial discovery, with
the possibility of extensions under special circumstances. Areas from which
commercial production has not started by the end of the development period will
be deemed relinquished if no extension is granted. All extensions are subject
to the national oil company s prior written approval. The total production
period is 15 to 25 years from first commercial lifting, not to exceed the
overall term of the contract.   

  In 2008, the Company reached agreement with the
national oil company for a new PSC, which was subsequently signed in 2009.
Under the new PSC, from 2008 until March 31, 2012, the Company was entitled to
undertake new development and production activities in oil fields under an
existing PSC, subject to new minimum work and spending commitments, including
an enhanced oil recovery project in one of the oil fields. When the existing
PSC expired on March 31, 2012, the producing fields covered by the existing PSC
automatically became part of the new PSC, which has a 25-year duration from
April 2008.   

21       

Qatar    

  The State of Qatar grants gas production development
project rights to develop and supply gas from the offshore North Field to
permit the economic development and production of gas reserves sufficient to
satisfy the gas and LNG sales obligations of these projects.   

   Republic of Yemen    

  The Jannah production sharing agreement has a
development period extending 20 years from first commercial declaration, which
was made in June 1995.   

   Russia    

  Terms for ExxonMobil s acreage are fixed by the
production sharing agreement (PSA) that became effective in 1996 between the
Russian government and the Sakhalin-1 consortium, of which ExxonMobil is the
operator. The term of the PSA is 20 years from the Declaration of
Commerciality, which would be 2021. The term may be extended thereafter in
ten-year increments as specified in the PSA.   

   Thailand    

  The Petroleum Act of 1971 allows production under
ExxonMobil s concession for 30 years with a ten-year extension at terms
generally prevalent at the time.   

   United Arab Emirates    

  Exploration and production activities for the major
onshore oil fields in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi are governed by a 75-year oil
concession agreement executed in 1939 and subsequently amended through various
agreements with the government of Abu Dhabi. An interest in the Upper Zakum
field, a major offshore field, was acquired effective as of January 2006, for a
term expiring March 2026.   

    AUSTRALIA/OCEANIA     

   Australia    

  Exploration and production activities conducted
offshore in Commonwealth waters are governed by Federal legislation.
Exploration permits are granted for an initial term of six years with two
possible five-year renewal periods. Retention leases may be granted for
resources that are not commercially viable at the time of application, but are
expected to become commercially viable within 15 years. These are granted for
periods of five years and renewals may be requested. Prior to July 1998,
production licenses were granted initially for 21 years, with a further renewal
of 21 years and thereafter  indefinitely , i.e., for the life of the field.
Effective from July 1998, new production licenses are granted  indefinitely .
In each case, a production license may be terminated if no production
operations have been carried on for five years.   

   Papua New Guinea    

  Exploration and production activities are governed by
the Oil and Gas Act. Petroleum Prospecting licenses are granted for an initial
term of six years with a five-year extension possible (an additional extension
of three years is possible in certain circumstances). Generally, a 50-percent
relinquishment of the license area is required at the end of the initial
six-year term, if extended. Petroleum Development licenses are granted for an
initial 25-year period. An extension of up to 20 years may be granted at the Minister s
discretion. Petroleum Retention licenses may be granted for gas resources that
are not commercially viable at the time of application, but may become
commercially viable within the maximum possible retention time of 15 years.
Petroleum Retention licenses are granted for five-year terms, and may be
extended, at the Minister s discretion, twice for the maximum retention time of
15 years. Extensions of Petroleum Retention licenses may be for periods of less
than one year, renewable annually, if the Minister considers at the time of
extension that the resources could become commercially viable in less than five
years.   

22       

Information with
regard to the Downstream segment follows:    

  ExxonMobil s Downstream segment manufactures and sells
petroleum products. The refining and supply operations encompass a global
network of manufacturing plants, transportation systems, and distribution
centers that provide a range of fuels, lubricants and other products and
feedstocks to our customers around the world.   

   Refining Capacity At
Year-End 2012     (1)    

(1)   Capacity data is based on
100 percent of rated refinery process unit stream-day capacities under
normal operating conditions, less the impact of shutdowns for regular repair
and maintenance activities, averaged over an extended period of time.    

   (2)   Thousands of barrels per day
(KBD). ExxonMobil share reflects 100 percent of atmospheric distillation
capacity in operations of ExxonMobil and majority-owned subsidiaries. For
companies owned 50 percent or less, ExxonMobil share is the greater of
ExxonMobil s equity interest or that portion of distillation capacity normally
available to ExxonMobil.    

23       

The marketing operations sell
products and services throughout the world through our    Exxon   ,    Esso    
and    Mobil     brands.  

   Retail Sites At Year-End 2012   

24       

Information with
regard to the Chemical segment follows:    

  ExxonMobil s Chemical segment manufactures and sells
petrochemicals. The Chemical business supplies olefins, polyolefins, aromatics,
and a wide variety of other petrochemicals.   

   Chemical Complex Capacity At Year-End 2012     (1)(2)          

(1)   Capacity for ethylene, polyethylene,
polypropylene and paraxylene in millions of metric tons per year.    

   (2)   Capacity reflects 100 percent
for operations of ExxonMobil and majority-owned subsidiaries. For companies
owned 50 percent or less, capacity is ExxonMobil s interest.    

   Iran Threat
Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012   

  The captioned Act was signed by President Obama on
August 10, 2012.  Among other things, the Act extended the prohibition against
U.S. persons doing business with the Government of Iran to include such persons 
non-U.S. subsidiaries.  Previously, non-U.S. subsidiaries were not covered by
this restriction.  Application of the restriction to non-U.S. subsidiaries took
effect on October 10, 2012.  The Act also requires registrants to disclose, in
their annual and quarterly reports, activities covered by the Act which
occurred anytime during the period covered by the report, even if such
activities occurred prior to the effective date of the Act and were permitted
at the time.  

  During the period from January to September, 2012,
ExxonMobil s majority-owned Canadian affiliate, Imperial Oil Limited (IOL),
made several fleet sales of motor fuel with an aggregate total sales price of
approximately 11,000 Canadian dollars to the Iranian Embassy in Canada.  IOL s
net profits attributable to these sales were less than 500 Canadian dollars. 
The sales were made without the involvement of any U.S. person and were
permitted by U.S. laws in effect at the time.  No sales occurred after the
October 10, 2012, effective date, and we do not expect any such sales to occur
in the future.         

  The embassy sales stated above represent an activity
described in paragraph (D)(iii) of paragraph (1) of Section 13(r) of the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 and therefore are excluded from the
required investigation provisions of that statute.    

25       

Item 3.       Legal Proceedings   

  On October 31, 2012, the Illinois Attorney General and
Will County State's Attorney filed a civil complaint and sought a preliminary
injunction against ExxonMobil Oil Corporation (EMOC) relating to an October 18,
2012, release of oil mist from a pressure relief valve associated with the
coker unit at EMOC s Joliet Refinery.  The refinery reported the incident
promptly to regulatory authorities and took prompt response actions. The
State s civil complaint seeks a penalty in excess of $100,000.  On November 14,
2012, the parties entered into an Agreed Order resolving some of the issues,
including the State s demand for injunctive relief.  As part of the Agreed
Order, EMOC agreed to complete an investigation into the incident's cause and
to report the findings to the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA);
submit a work schedule for necessary improvements; report all pollutants and
quantities involved in the oil release incident; pay all reasonable response,
oversight and review costs relating to the release incurred by the IEPA and the
Attorney General, up to and not to exceed $50,000; and reimburse Will County
for its reasonable response costs incurred in the course of providing emergency
action relating to the release, up to and not to exceed $20,000.    

  Regarding a matter previously reported in the
Corporation s Form 10-Q for the second quarter of 2012, on December 17, 2012,
XTO Energy Inc. (XTO) entered into a settlement agreement and stipulated final
compliance order with the New Mexico Environment Department (NMED) arising from
NMED s allegations that XTO violated the New Mexico Air Quality Control Act and
air permits for compressor engines at the XTO Valencia Canyon Compressor
Station in Rio Arriba County, New Mexico.  Under the settlement, XTO has agreed
to pay $90,000 to resolve the alleged violations.   

  Refer to the relevant portions of  Note 16:
Litigation and Other Contingencies  of the Financial Section of this report for
additional information on legal proceedings.   

Item 4.       MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES   

  Not applicable.   

_______________________   

26       

Executive Officers of the Registrant [pursuant to Instruction
3 to Regulation S-K, Item 401(b)]   

     (ages as of March 1, 2013      ).    

Rex W. Tillerson   

Chairman of the Board   

Held current title since:  

January 1, 2006  

Age: 60  

Mr. Rex W. Tillerson became a Director and President of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation on March 1, 2004. He became Chairman of the Board
  and Chief Executive Officer on January 1, 2006. He still holds these
  positions as of this filing date.  

Mark W. Albers   

Senior Vice  President   

Held current title since:  

April 1, 2007  

Age: 56  

Mr. Mark W. Albers became Senior Vice President of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation on April 1, 2007, a position he still holds as of
  this filing date.  

Michael J. Dolan   

Senior Vice President   

Held current title since:  

April 1, 2008  

Age: 59  

Mr. Michael J. Dolan was President of ExxonMobil Chemical
  Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation
  September 1, 2004   March 31, 2008. He became Senior Vice
  President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on April 1, 2008, a position
  he still holds as of this filing date.  

Andrew P. Swiger   

Senior Vice President   

Held current title since:  

April 1, 2009  

Age: 56  

Mr. Andrew P. Swiger was President of ExxonMobil
  Gas   Power Marketing Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil
  Corporation October 1, 2006   March 31, 2009. He became
  Senior Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on April 1, 2009,
  a position he still holds as of this filing date.  

S. Jack Balagia   

Vice President and General Counsel   

Held current title since:  

March 1, 2010  

Age: 61  

Mr. S. Jack Balagia was Assistant General Counsel of Exxon Mobil
  Corporation April 1, 2004   March 1, 2010. He became Vice
  President and General Counsel of Exxon Mobil Corporation on
  March 1, 2010, positions he still holds as of this filing date.   

William M. Colton   

Vice President - Strategic Planning   

Held current title since:  

February 1, 2009  

Age: 59  

Mr. William M. Colton was Assistant Treasurer of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation January 25, 2006   January 31, 2009. He
  became Vice President Strategic Planning of Exxon Mobil Corporation on
  February 1, 2009, a position he still holds as of this filing date.  

Neil W. Duffin   

President, ExxonMobil Development Company   

Held current title since:  

April 13, 2007  

Age: 56  

Mr. Neil W. Duffin became President of
  ExxonMobil Development Company on April 13, 2007, a position he
  still holds as of this filing date.  

27       

Robert S. Franklin   

Vice President   

Held current title since:  

May 1, 2009  

Age: 55  

Mr. Robert S. Franklin was Executive
  Assistant to the Chairman, Exxon Mobil Corporation April 16, 2007  
  March 31, 2008. He was Vice President, Europe/Russia/Caspian of
  ExxonMobil Production Company April 1, 2008   May 1, 2009.
  He became Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation and President, ExxonMobil
  Upstream Ventures on May 1, 2009, positions he still holds as of
  this filing date.  

Stephen M.
  Greenlee   

Vice President   

Held current title since:  

September 1, 2010  

Age: 55  

Mr. Stephen M. Greenlee was Vice President
  of ExxonMobil Exploration Company June 1, 2004   June 1, 2009.
  He was President of ExxonMobil Upstream Research Company
  June 1, 2009   August 31, 2010. He became President of
  ExxonMobil Exploration Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation
  on September 1, 2010, positions he still holds as of this filing
  date.  

Alan J. Kelly   

Vice President   

Held current title since:  

December 1, 2007  

Age: 55  

Mr. Alan J. Kelly became President of
  ExxonMobil Lubricants   Petroleum Specialties Company and Vice
  President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on December 1, 2007. On
  February 1, 2012, the businesses of ExxonMobil Lubricants  
  Petroleum Specialties Company and ExxonMobil Fuels Marketing Company were
  consolidated and Mr. Kelly became President of the combined ExxonMobil Fuels,
  Lubricants   Specialties Marketing Company as well as Vice President of
  Exxon Mobil Corporation, positions he still holds as of this filing date.  

Richard M. Kruger    

Vice President   

Held current title since:  

April 1, 2008  

Age: 
  53  

Mr. Richard M. Kruger was Executive Vice
  President of ExxonMobil Production Company October 1, 2006   March 31, 2008.
  He became President of ExxonMobil Production Company and Vice President of
  Exxon Mobil Corporation on April 1, 2008, positions he still holds
  as of this filing date.  

Patrick T.
  Mulva   

Vice President
  and Controller   

Held current title since:  

February 1, 2002
  (Vice President)  
    July 1, 2004
  (Controller)  

Age: 61  

Mr. Patrick T. Mulva became Vice President
  and Controller of Exxon Mobil Corporation on July 1, 2004, positions
  he still holds as of this filing date.  

Stephen D. Pryor   

Vice President    

Held current title since:  

December 1, 2004  

Age: 63  

Mr. Stephen D. Pryor was President of
  ExxonMobil Refining   Supply Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil
  Corporation December 1, 2004   March 31, 2008. He became President
  of ExxonMobil Chemical Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation
  on April 1, 2008, positions he still holds as of this filing date.  

David S. Rosenthal   

Vice President - Investor Relations and Secretary   

Held current title since:  

October 1,
  2008  

Age: 56  

Mr. David S. Rosenthal was Assistant
  Controller of Exxon Mobil Corporation June 1, 2006  
  September 30, 2008. He became Vice President Investor Relations and
  Secretary of Exxon Mobil Corporation on October 1, 2008, positions
  he still holds as of this filing date.  

28       

James M.
  Spellings, Jr.   

Vice President
  and General Tax Counsel   

Held current title since:  

March 1, 2010  

Age: 51  

Mr. James M. Spellings, Jr. was Associate
  General Tax Counsel of Exxon Mobil Corporation April 1, 2007  
  March 1, 2010. He became Vice President and General Tax Counsel of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation on March 1, 2010, positions he still holds as of this
  filing date.  

Thomas R.
  Walters   

Vice President   

Held current title since:  

April 1, 2009  

Age: 58  

Mr. Thomas R. Walters was Executive Vice
  President of ExxonMobil Development Company April 13, 2007  
  April 1, 2009. He became President of ExxonMobil Gas  
  Power Marketing Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on
  April 1, 2009 positions he still holds as of this filing date.  

Jack P. Williams, Jr.   

President, XTO
  Energy Inc.   

Held current title since:  

June 25, 2010  

Age: 
  49  

Mr. Jack P. Williams, Jr. was Vice
  President, Engineering, ExxonMobil Production Company May 1, 2007  
  April 30, 2009. He was Vice President of ExxonMobil Development
  Company May 1, 2009   July 1, 2010. He became President
  of XTO Energy Inc. on June 25, 2010, a position he still holds as
  of this filing date.  

Darren W. Woods   

Vice President    

Held current title since:  

August 1, 2012  

Age: 48  

Mr. Darren W. Woods was Vice President,
  Specialty Elastomers Business, ExxonMobil Chemical Company
  July 1, 2007  January 31, 2008. He was Director, Refining
  Europe/Africa/Middle East, ExxonMobil Refining   Supply Company    
  February 1, 2008   June 30, 2010. He was Vice President,
  Supply   Transportation, ExxonMobil Refining   Supply Company
  July 1, 2010   July 31, 2012.  He became President of
  ExxonMobil Refining   Supply Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil
  Corporation on August 1, 2012, positions he still holds as of this
  filing date.  

Officers are generally
elected by the Board of Directors at its meeting on the day of each annual
election of directors, with each such officer serving until a successor has
been elected and qualified.   

29       

PART II   

   Item 5.       Market
for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases
of Equity Securities   

  Reference is made to the  Quarterly Information 
portion of the Financial Section of this report.   

Note 1 - On August 1, 2000, the Corporation announced
its intention to resume purchases of shares of its common stock for the
treasury both to offset shares issued in conjunction with company benefit plans
and programs and to gradually reduce the number of shares outstanding. The
announcement did not specify an amount or expiration date. The Corporation has
continued to purchase shares since this announcement and to report purchased
volumes in its quarterly earnings releases. In its most recent earnings release
dated February 1, 2013, the Corporation stated that first quarter 2013 share
purchases are continuing at a pace consistent with fourth quarter 2012 share
reduction spending of $5 billion. Purchases may be made in both the open
market and through negotiated transactions, and purchases may be increased,
decreased or discontinued at any time without prior notice.   

Item 6.       Selected Financial Data   

Item 7.       Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

  Reference is made to the section entitled
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  in the Financial Section of this report.   

   Item 7A.    Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

  Reference is made to the section entitled  Market
Risks, Inflation and Other Uncertainties , excluding the part entitled
 Inflation and Other Uncertainties,  in the Financial Section of this report.
All statements other than historical information incorporated in this
Item 7A are forward-looking statements. The actual impact of future market
changes could differ materially due to, among other things, factors discussed
in this report.   

30       

Item 8.       Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data   

  Reference is made to the following in the Financial
Section of this report:    

Consolidated financial statements, together with the
  report thereon of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP dated February 27, 2013, beginning
  with the section entitled  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firm  and continuing through  Note 20: Japan Restructuring    

Quarterly Information  (unaudited);   

Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration
  and Production Activities  (unaudited); and  

Frequently Used Terms  (unaudited).   

Financial Statement Schedules have been omitted
because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the
consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.  

   Item 9.       Changes
in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

  None.  

   Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures   

   Management s Evaluation of Disclosure
Controls and Procedures    

  As indicated in the certifications in Exhibit 31 of
this report, the Corporation s chief executive officer, principal financial
officer and principal accounting officer have evaluated the Corporation s
disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2012. Based on that
evaluation, these officers have concluded that the Corporation s disclosure
controls and procedures are effective in ensuring that information required to
be disclosed by the Corporation in the reports that it files or submits under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is accumulated and
communicated to them in a manner that allows for timely decisions regarding
required disclosures and are effective in ensuring that such information is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified
in the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and forms.   

   Management s Report on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting    

  Management, including the Corporation s chief
executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting
officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over the Corporation s financial reporting. Management conducted an
evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based
on this evaluation, management concluded that Exxon Mobil Corporation s
internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2012.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, audited the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, as stated in
their report included in the Financial Section of this report.   

   Changes in Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting    

  There were no changes during the Corporation s last
fiscal quarter that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
affect, the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting.   

   Item 9B.     Other Information   

  Effective April 1, 2013, the annual salary for Mark W.
Albers will increase to $1,110,000 and Michael J. Dolan will increase to
$1,200,000.  Like all other ExxonMobil executive officers, Messrs. Albers
and Dolan are  at-will  employees of the Corporation and they do not have
employment contracts.  

31       

PART III   

   Item 10.     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
Governance   

  Incorporated by reference to the following from the
registrant s definitive proxy statement for the 2013 annual meeting of shareholders
(the  2013 Proxy Statement ):   

The section entitled  Election of Directors   

The portion entitled  Section 16(a) Beneficial
  Ownership Reporting Compliance  of the section entitled  Director and
  Executive Officer Stock Ownership   

The portions entitled  Director Qualifications  and
   Code of Ethics and Business Conduct  of the section entitled  Corporate
  Governance  and  

The  Audit Committee  portion and the membership
  table of the portion entitled  Board Meetings and Committees; Annual Meeting
  Attendance  of the section entitled  Corporate Governance .  

Item 11.     Executive Compensation   

  Incorporated by reference to the sections entitled
 Director Compensation,   Compensation Committee Report,   Compensation
Discussion and Analysis  and  Executive Compensation Tables  of the
registrant s 2013 Proxy Statement.   

   Item 12.
    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters   

  The information required under Item 403 of Regulation
S-K is incorporated by reference to the sections  Director and Executive
Officer Stock Ownership  and  Certain Beneficial Owners  of the registrant s
2013 Proxy Statement.   

Equity Compensation Plan Information   

(a)    

(b)    

(c)    

Number of Securities   

Weighted-   

Remaining Available    

Average   

for Future Issuance   

Number of Securities   

Exercise Price    

Under Equity   

to be Issued Upon    

of Outstanding   

Compensation    

Exercise of   

Options,    

Plans [Excluding   

Outstanding Options,    

Warrants and    

Securities Reflected    

Plan
  Category   

Warrants and Rights   

Rights   

in Column (a)]   

Equity
  compensation plans approved by security holders  

10,481,088   

(1)(2)   

-   

125,413,149   

(2)(3)(4)   

Equity
  compensation plans not approved by security holders  

-   

-   

-   

Total  

10,481,088   

-   

125,413,149   

(1)   The number of restricted stock
units to be settled in shares.    

   (2)   Does not include options that
ExxonMobil assumed in the 2010 merger with XTO Energy Inc. At year-end 2012,
the number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options
under XTO Energy Inc. plans was 2,355,003, and the weighted-average exercise
price of such options was $78.60. No additional awards may be made under those
plans.    

   (3)   Available shares can be granted
in the form of restricted stock, options, or other stock-based awards. Includes
124,736,449 shares available for award under the 2003 Incentive Program and 676,700
shares available for award under the 2004 Non-Employee Director Restricted
Stock Plan.    

   (4)   Under the 2004 Non-Employee
Director Restricted Stock Plan approved by shareholders in May 2004, and the
related standing resolution adopted by the Board, each non-employee director
automatically receives 8,000 shares of restricted stock when first elected to
the Board and, if the director remains in office, an additional 2,500
restricted shares each following year. While on the Board, each non-employee
director receives the same cash dividends on restricted shares as a holder of
regular common stock, but the director is not allowed to sell the shares. The
restricted shares may be forfeited if the director leaves the Board early.    

32       

Item 13.
    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   

  Incorporated by reference to the portions entitled
 Related Person Transactions and Procedures  and  Director Independence  of the
section entitled  Corporate Governance  of the registrant s 2013 Proxy
Statement.   

   Item 14.     Principal Accounting Fees and Services   

  Incorporated by reference to the portion entitled
 Audit Committee  of the section entitled  Corporate Governance  and the
section entitled  Ratification of Independent Auditors  of the registrant s 2013
Proxy Statement.   

PART
IV   

   Item 15.     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules   

  (a)      (1) and
(2) Financial Statements:   

             See Table of Contents of the
Financial Section of this report.   

  (a)      (3)
Exhibits:   

             See Index to Exhibits of this
report.   

33       

FINANCIAL SECTION   

TABLE OF
  CONTENTS   

Business Profile  

35   

Financial Summary  

36   

Frequently Used Terms  

37   

Quarterly Information  

39   

Management s Discussion and Analysis
  of Financial Condition   
    and Results of Operations  

Functional Earnings  

40   

Forward-Looking Statements  

41   

Overview  

41   

Business Environment and Risk
  Assessment  

41   

Review of 2012 and 2011 Results  

44   

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

47   

Capital and Exploration Expenditures  

52   

Taxes  

52   

Environmental Matters  

53   

Market Risks, Inflation and Other
  Uncertainties  

53   

Critical Accounting Estimates  

55   

Management s Report on Internal
  Control Over Financial Reporting  

59   

Report of Independent Registered
  Public Accounting Firm  

60   

Consolidated Financial Statements  

Statement of Income  

61   

Statement of Comprehensive Income  

62   

Balance Sheet  

63   

Statement of Cash Flows  

64   

Statement of Changes in Equity  

65   

Notes to Consolidated Financial
  Statements  

1. Summary of Accounting
  Policies  

66   

2. Accounting Changes  

68   

3. Miscellaneous
  Financial Information  

68   

4. Other Comprehensive
  Income Information  

69   

5. Cash Flow Information  

70   

6. Additional Working
  Capital Information  

70   

7. Equity Company
  Information  

71   

8. Investments, Advances
  and Long-Term Receivables  

72   

9. Property, Plant and
  Equipment and Asset Retirement Obligations  

72   

10. Accounting for Suspended
  Exploratory Well Costs  

74   

11. Leased Facilities  

76   

12. Earnings Per Share  

76   

13. Financial Instruments and
  Derivatives  

77   

14. Long-Term Debt  

78   

15. Incentive Program  

79   

16. Litigation and Other
  Contingencies  

81   

17. Pension and Other Postretirement
  Benefits  

83   

18. Disclosures about Segments and
  Related Information  

91   

19. Income, Sales-Based and Other
  Taxes  

94   

20. Japan Restructuring  

97   

Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration
  and Production Activities  

98   

Operating Summary  

113  

34       

BUSINESS PROFILE   

See Frequently Used Terms for a
definition and calculation of capital employed and return on average capital
employed.   

(1)        
    Gas converted to
oil-equivalent at 6 million cubic feet = 1 thousand barrels.    

   (2)        
    Prime product sales include
ExxonMobil s share of equity-company volumes and finished-product transfers to
the Downstream.   

35       

FINANCIAL SUMMARY    

(1)   Sales and other operating
revenue includes sales-based taxes of $32,409 million for 2012, $33,503 million
for 2011, $28,547 million for 2010, $25,936 million for 2009 and $34,508
million for 2008.    

   (2)   Debt net of cash, excluding
restricted cash.    

   (3)   Regular employees are defined
as active executive, management, professional, technical and wage employees who
work full time or part time for the Corporation and are covered by the
Corporation s benefit plans and programs.    

   (4)   CORS employees are employees of
company-operated retail sites.    

36       

FREQUENTLY USED TERMS    

Listed below are definitions of several of ExxonMobil s
key business and financial performance measures. These definitions are provided
to facilitate understanding of the terms and their calculation.   

   Cash Flow From Operations and Asset Sales    

  Cash flow
from operations and asset sales is the sum of the net cash provided by
operating activities and proceeds associated with sales of subsidiaries,
property, plant and equipment, and sales and returns of investments from the
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. This cash flow reflects the total sources
of cash from both operating the Corporation s assets and from the divesting of
assets. The Corporation employs a long-standing and regular disciplined review
process to ensure that all assets are contributing to the Corporation s
strategic objectives. Assets are divested when they are no longer meeting these
objectives or are worth considerably more to others. Because of the regular
nature of this activity, we believe it is useful for investors to consider
proceeds associated with asset sales together with cash provided by operating
activities when evaluating cash available for investment in the business and
financing activities, including shareholder distributions.   

Capital Employed    

  Capital
employed is a measure of net investment. When viewed from the perspective of
how the capital is used by the businesses, it includes ExxonMobil s net share
of property, plant and equipment and other assets less liabilities, excluding
both short-term and long-term debt. When viewed from the perspective of the
sources of capital employed in total for the Corporation, it includes
ExxonMobil s share of total debt and equity. Both of these views include
ExxonMobil s share of amounts applicable to equity companies, which the
Corporation believes should be included to provide a more comprehensive measure
of capital employed.   

37       

FREQUENTLY USED TERMS    

Return on Average Capital Employed    

  Return on
average capital employed (ROCE) is a performance measure ratio. From the
perspective of the business segments, ROCE is annual business segment earnings
divided by average business segment capital employed (average of beginning and
end-of-year amounts). These segment earnings include ExxonMobil s share of
segment earnings of equity companies, consistent with our capital employed
definition, and exclude the cost of financing. The Corporation s total ROCE is
net income attributable to ExxonMobil excluding the after-tax cost of
financing, divided by total corporate average capital employed. The Corporation
has consistently applied its ROCE definition for many years and views it as the
best measure of historical capital productivity in our capital-intensive,
long-term industry, both to evaluate management s performance and to
demonstrate to shareholders that capital has been used wisely over the long
term. Additional measures, which are more cash flow based, are used to make investment
decisions.   

38       

QUARTERLY INFORMATION    

(1)   Gas converted to oil-equivalent
at 6 million cubic feet = 1 thousand barrels.    

   (2)   Includes amounts for sales-based
taxes.    

   (3)   Gross profit equals sales and
other operating revenue less estimated costs associated with products sold.    

   (4)   Computed using the average
number of shares outstanding during each period. The sum of the four quarters
may not add to the full year.    

The price
range of ExxonMobil common stock is as reported on the composite tape of the
several U.S. exchanges where ExxonMobil common stock is traded. The
principal market where ExxonMobil common stock (XOM) is traded is the New York
Stock Exchange, although the stock is traded on other exchanges in and
outside the United States.   

  There were 468,497 registered shareholders of ExxonMobil common stock
at December 31, 2012. At January 31, 2013, the registered
shareholders of ExxonMobil common stock numbered 466,674.   

  On January 30, 2013, the Corporation declared a $0.57 dividend per
common share, payable March 11, 2013.  

39       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

References in this discussion to total corporate
earnings mean net income attributable to ExxonMobil (U.S. GAAP) from the
consolidated income statement. Unless otherwise indicated, references to
earnings, Upstream, Downstream, Chemical and Corporate and Financing segment
earnings, and earnings per share are ExxonMobil s share after excluding amounts
attributable to noncontrolling interests.  

40       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS    

  Statements
in this discussion regarding expectations, plans and future events or
conditions are forward-looking statements. Actual future results, including
demand growth and energy source mix; capacity increases; production growth and
mix; rates of field decline; financing sources; the resolution of contingencies
and uncertain tax positions; environmental and capital expenditures; could
differ materially depending on a number of factors, such as changes in the
supply of and demand for crude oil, natural gas, and petroleum and
petrochemical products; the outcome of commercial negotiations; political or
regulatory events, and other factors discussed herein and in Item 1A. Risk
Factors.   

  The term  project  as used in this report does not necessarily have the
same meaning as under SEC Rule 13q-1 relating to government payment reporting. 
For example, a single project for purposes of the rule may encompass numerous
properties, agreements, investments, developments, phases, work efforts,
activities, and components, each of which we may also informally describe as a
 project .  

OVERVIEW    

  The
following discussion and analysis of ExxonMobil s financial results, as well as
the accompanying financial statements and related notes to consolidated
financial statements to which they refer, are the responsibility of the
management of Exxon Mobil Corporation. The Corporation s accounting and
financial reporting fairly reflect its straightforward business model involving
the extracting, manufacturing and marketing of hydrocarbons and
hydrocarbon-based products. The Corporation s business model involves the
production (or purchase), manufacture and sale of physical products, and all
commercial activities are directly in support of the underlying physical
movement of goods.   

  ExxonMobil, with its resource base, financial strength, disciplined
investment approach and technology portfolio, is well-positioned to participate
in substantial investments to develop new energy supplies. While commodity
prices are volatile on a short-term basis and depend on supply and demand,
ExxonMobil s investment decisions are based on our long-term business outlook,
using a disciplined approach in selecting and pursuing the most attractive
investment opportunities. The corporate plan is a fundamental annual management
process that is the basis for setting near-term operating and capital
objectives in addition to providing the longer-term economic assumptions used
for investment evaluation purposes. Volumes are based on individual field
production profiles, which are also updated annually. Price ranges for crude
oil, natural gas, refined products, and chemical products are based on
corporate plan assumptions developed annually by major region and are utilized
for investment evaluation purposes. Potential investment opportunities are
tested over a wide range of economic scenarios to establish the resiliency of
each opportunity. Once investments are made, a reappraisal process is completed
to ensure relevant lessons are learned and improvements are incorporated into
future projects.   

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND RISK ASSESSMENT    

   Long-Term Business Outlook    

  By 2040, the
world s population is projected to grow to approximately 8.7 billion people, or
about 1.9 billion more than in 2010. Coincident with this population increase,
the Corporation expects worldwide economic growth to average close to 3 percent
per year. Expanding prosperity across a growing global population is expected
to coincide with an increase in primary energy demand of about 35 percent by
2040 versus 2010, even with substantial efficiency gains around the world. This
demand increase is expected to be concentrated in developing countries (i.e.,
those that are not member nations of the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development).    

  As economic progress for billions of people drives demand higher,
increasing penetration of energy-efficient and lower-emission fuels,
technologies and practices are expected to contribute to significantly lower
levels of energy consumption and emissions per unit of economic output over
time. Efficiency gains will result from anticipated improvements in the
transportation and power generation sectors, driven by the penetration of
advanced technologies, as well as many other improvements that span the
residential, commercial and industrial sectors.  

  Energy for transportation   including cars, trucks, ships, trains and
airplanes   is expected to increase by about 40 percent from 2010 to 2040. The
global growth in transportation demand is likely to account for approximately
70 percent of the growth in liquid fuels demand over this period. Nearly all
the world s transportation fleets will continue to run on liquid fuels because
they provide a large quantity of energy in small volumes, making them easy to transport
and widely available.  

  Demand for electricity around the world is likely to increase
approximately 85 percent by 2040, led by growth in developing countries.
Consistent with this projection, power generation is expected to remain the
largest and fastest-growing major segment of global energy demand. Meeting the
expected growth in power demand will require a diverse set of energy sources.
Natural gas demand is likely to grow most significantly and become the leading
source of generated electricity by 2040, reflecting the efficiency of gas-fired
power plants.  Today, coal has the largest fuel share in the power sector, but
its share is likely to decline      

41       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

significantly by 2040
as policies are gradually adopted to reduce environmental impacts including
those related to local air quality and greenhouse gas emissions.  Nuclear power
and renewables, led by wind, are expected to grow significantly over the
period.  

  Liquid fuels provide the largest share of energy supply today due to
their broad-based availability, affordability and ease of transport to meet
consumer needs. By 2040, global demand for liquids is expected to grow to
approximately 113 million barrels of oil-equivalent per day, an increase of about
30 percent from 2010. Global demand for liquid fuels will be met by a wide
variety of sources. Conventional crude and condensate production is expected to
remain relatively flat through 2040. However, growth is expected from a wide
variety of sources, including deep-water resources, oil sands, tight oil,
natural gas liquids, and biofuels.  The world s resource base is sufficient to
meet projected demand through 2040 as technology advances continue to expand
the availability of economic supply options. However, access to resources and
timely investments will remain critical to meeting global needs with reliable,
affordable supplies.  

  Natural gas is a versatile fuel for a wide variety of applications, and
is expected to be the fastest growing major fuel source through 2040.  Global
demand is expected to rise about 65 percent from 2010 to 2040, with demand
increases in major regions around the world requiring new sources of supply.
Helping meet these needs will be significant growth in supplies of unconventional
gas   the natural gas found in shale and other rock formations that was once
considered uneconomic to produce.  By 2040, unconventional gas is likely to
approach one-third of global gas supplies, up from less than 15 percent in
2010.  Growing natural gas demand will also stimulate significant growth in the
worldwide liquefied natural gas (LNG) market, which is expected to reach about
15 percent of global gas demand by 2040.  

  The world s energy mix is highly diverse and will remain so through
2040. Oil is expected to remain the largest source of energy with its share
remaining close to one-third in 2040.  Coal is currently the second largest
source of energy, but it is likely to lose that position to natural gas by
approximately 2025.  The share of natural gas is expected to exceed 25 percent
by 2040, while the share of coal falls to less than 20 percent. Nuclear power
is projected to grow significantly, albeit at a slower pace than otherwise
expected in the aftermath of the Fukushima incident in Japan following the
earthquake and tsunami in March 2011.  Total renewable energy is likely to
reach close to 15 percent of total energy by 2040, including biomass, hydro and
geothermal at a combined share of about 11 percent.  Total energy supplied from
wind, solar and biofuels is expected to increase close to 450 percent from 2010
to 2040, reaching a combined share of 3 to 4 percent of world energy.  

  The Corporation anticipates that the world s available oil and gas
resource base will grow not only from new discoveries, but also from reserve
increases in previously discovered fields.  Technology will underpin these
increases. The cost to develop and supply these resources will be significant.
According to the International Energy Agency, the investment required to meet total
oil and gas energy needs worldwide over the period 2012-2035 will be close to
$19 trillion (measured in 2011 dollars) or close to $800 billion per year on
average.  

  International accords and underlying regional and national regulations
for greenhouse gas reduction are evolving with uncertain timing and outcome,
making it difficult to predict their business impact.  ExxonMobil includes
estimates of potential costs related to possible public policies covering
energy-related greenhouse gas emissions in its long-term Energy Outlook, which
is used for assessing the business environment and in its investment
evaluations.    

  The information provided in the Long-Term Business Outlook includes
ExxonMobil s internal estimates and forecasts based upon internal data and
analyses as well as publicly available information from external sources
including the International Energy Agency.  

Upstream    

  ExxonMobil
continues to maintain a diverse portfolio of exploration and development
opportunities, which enables the Corporation to be selective, maximizing
shareholder value and mitigating political and technical risks. ExxonMobil s
fundamental Upstream business strategies guide our global exploration,
development, production, and gas and power marketing activities. These strategies
include identifying and selectively capturing the highest quality
opportunities, exercising a disciplined approach to investing and cost
management, developing and applying high-impact technologies, maximizing the
profitability of existing oil and gas production, and capitalizing on growing
natural gas and power markets.   These strategies are underpinned by a
relentless focus on operational excellence, commitment to innovative
technologies, development of our employees, and investment in the communities
within which we operate.   

  As future development projects and drilling activities bring new
production online, the Corporation expects a shift in the geographic mix of its
production volumes between now and 2017. Oil and natural gas output from North
America is expected to increase over the next five years based on current
capital activity plans. Currently, this growth area accounts for 32 percent of
the Corporation s production. By 2017, it is expected to generate about 35
percent of total volumes. The remainder of the Corporation s production is
expected to include contributions from both established operations and new
projects around the globe.   

42       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

In addition to an evolving geographic mix, we expect
there will also be continued change in the type of opportunities from which
volumes are produced. Production from diverse resource types utilizing
specialized technologies such as arctic technology, deepwater drilling and
production systems, heavy oil and oil sands recovery processes, unconventional
gas and oil production and LNG is expected to grow from about 45 percent to
around 55 percent of the Corporation s output between now and 2017. We do not
anticipate that the expected change in the geographic mix of production
volumes, and in the types of opportunities from which volumes will be produced,
will have a material impact on the nature and the extent of the risks disclosed
in Item 1A. Risk Factors, or result in a material change in our level of unit
operating expenses. The Corporation s overall volume capacity outlook, based on
projects coming onstream as anticipated, is for production capacity to grow
over the period 2013-2017. However, actual volumes will vary from year to year
due to the timing of individual project start-ups and other capital activities,
operational outages, reservoir performance, performance of enhanced oil
recovery projects, regulatory changes, asset sales, weather events, price
effects under production sharing contracts and other factors described in Item
1A. Risk Factors. Enhanced oil recovery projects extract hydrocarbons from
reservoirs in excess of that which may be produced through primary recovery,
i.e., through pressure depletion or natural aquifer support. They include the
injection of water, gases or chemicals into a reservoir to produce hydrocarbons
otherwise unobtainable.  

Downstream    

  ExxonMobil s
Downstream is a large, diversified business with refining, logistics, and
marketing complexes around the world. The Corporation has a presence in mature
markets in North America and Europe, as well as in the growing Asia Pacific
region. ExxonMobil s fundamental Downstream business strategies position the
company to deliver long-term growth in shareholder value that is superior to
competition across a range of market conditions. These strategies include
maintaining best-in-class operations in all aspects of the business, maximizing
value from leading-edge technologies, capitalizing on integration across
ExxonMobil businesses, selectively investing for resilient, advantaged returns,
leading the industry in efficiency and effectiveness, and providing quality,
valued products and services to customers.   

  ExxonMobil has an ownership interest in 32 refineries, located in 17
countries, with distillation capacity of 5.4 million barrels per day and
lubricant basestock manufacturing capacity of 126 thousand barrels per day.
ExxonMobil s fuels and lubes marketing businesses have significant global
reach, with multiple channels to market serving a diverse customer base.  Our
portfolio of world-renowned brands includes Exxon, Mobil, Esso, and Mobil 1.   

  The downstream industry environment remains challenging.  Demand
weakness and overcapacity in the refining sector will continue to put pressure
on margins.  In the near term, we see variability in refining margins, with
some regions seeing stronger margins as refineries rationalize. In markets like
North America, lower raw material and energy costs driven by the increasing
crude and natural gas production strengthened refining margins in several
areas.     

  Refining margins are largely driven by differences in commodity prices
and are a function of the difference between what a refinery pays for its raw
materials (primarily crude oil) and the market prices for the range of products
produced (primarily gasoline, heating oil, diesel oil, jet fuel and fuel oil).
Crude oil and many products are widely traded with published prices, including
those quoted on multiple exchanges around the world (e.g., New York Mercantile
Exchange and Intercontinental Exchange). Prices for these commodities are
determined by the global marketplace and are influenced by many factors,
including global and regional supply/demand balances, inventory levels,
refinery operations, import/export balances, currency fluctuations, seasonal demand,
weather and political climate.   

  ExxonMobil s long-term outlook is that refining margins will remain
weak as competition in the industry remains intense and, in the near term, new
capacity additions outpace the growth in global demand. Additionally, as described
in more detail in Item 1A. Risk Factors, proposed carbon policy and other
climate-related regulations in many countries, as well as the continued growth
in biofuels mandates, could have negative impacts on the refining business.   

  In the retail fuels marketing business, competition continues to cause
inflation-adjusted margins to decline. In 2012, ExxonMobil progressed the
transition of the direct served (i.e., dealer, company-operated) retail network
in the U.S. to a more capital-efficient branded distributor model. This
transition was announced in 2008 and is nearing completion.   

  Our lubricants business continues to grow. ExxonMobil is a market
leader in high-value synthetic lubricants, and we continue to grow our business
in key markets such as China, India and Russia at rates considerably faster
than industry.   

  The Downstream portfolio is continually evaluated during all parts of
the business cycle, and numerous asset divestments have been made over the past
decade. In 2012, we divested our Downstream businesses in Argentina, Uruguay,
Paraguay, Central America, Malaysia, and Switzerland. We also restructured and
reduced our holdings in Japan. When investing in the Downstream, ExxonMobil
remains focused on selective and resilient projects. These investments
capitalize on the Corporation s world-class scale and integration, industry
leading efficiency, leading-edge technology and respected brands, enabling
ExxonMobil to take advantage of attractive emerging growth opportunities around
the globe. In 2012, the company completed the Hydrofiner Conversion Project at
the Fawley, United Kingdom, refinery to produce higher-value ultra-low sulfur
diesel.   

43       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

At the Jurong/PAC refinery in Singapore, construction
activities to build a new diesel hydrotreater are expected to complete in 2013,
adding capacity of more than 2 million gallons per day of ultra-low sulfur
diesel to meet increasing demand in the Asia Pacific region. Additionally,
construction of a lower sulfur fuels project at the joint Saudi Aramco and ExxonMobil
SAMREF Refinery in Yanbu, Saudi Arabia is also underway. The project will
include new gasoline and expanded diesel hydrotreating and sulfur recovery
equipment, and completion is expected by the end of 2013. We are also expanding
our Singapore and China lube oil blending plants to support future demand
growth in these emerging markets.  

Chemical    

  Worldwide
petrochemical demand grew modestly in 2012 with substantial variations in
regional performance.  In North America, unconventional natural gas continued
to provide advantaged ethane feedstock and low cost energy for steam crackers
and a favorable margin environment for integrated chemical producers.  Margins
in Asia remained low, with excess ethylene supply.  Margins and volumes
declined in Europe with the weaker economy.  Specialty products overall
reported firm global demand and margins.   

  ExxonMobil benefited from continued operational excellence and a
balanced portfolio of products. In addition to being a worldwide supplier of
commodity petrochemical products, ExxonMobil Chemical also has a number of
less-cyclical Specialties business lines, which delivered strong results in
2012. Chemical s competitive advantages are due to its business mix, broad
geographic coverage, investment and cost discipline, integration with
refineries or upstream gas processing facilities, superior feedstock
management, leading proprietary technology and product application expertise.    

  In 2012 ExxonMobil completed construction of the Singapore
petrochemical expansion project and commenced start-up operations at one of the
world s largest ethylene steam crackers, the centerpiece of the company s
multi-billion dollar expansion at the complex.  Powered by a new 220-megawatt
cogeneration plant, the expansion adds 2.6 million tonnes per year of new
finished product capacity.  

2012    

  Earnings in 2012 of $44,880 million increased $3,820
million from 2011.    

2011    

  Earnings in
2011 of $41,060 million increased $10,600 million from 2010.    

2012    

  Upstream earnings were $29,895 million, down $4,544
million from 2011.  Lower liquids realizations, partly offset by improved
natural gas realizations, decreased earnings by about $100 million.  Production
volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $2.3 billion.  All other items,
including higher operating expenses, unfavorable tax items, lower gains on
asset sales, and unfavorable foreign exchange effects, reduced earnings by $2.1
billion.  On an oil-equivalent basis, production was down 5.9 percent compared
to 2011.  Excluding the impacts of entitlement volumes, OPEC quota effects and
divestments, production was down 1.7 percent.  Liquids production of 2,185 kbd
(thousands of barrels per day) decreased 127 kbd from 2011.  Excluding the
impacts of entitlement volumes, OPEC quota effects and divestments, liquids
production was down 1.6 percent, as field decline was partly offset by project
ramp-up in West Africa and lower downtime.  Natural gas production of 12,322
mcfd (millions of cubic feet per day) decreased 840 mcfd from 2011.  Excluding
the impacts of entitlement volumes and divestments, natural gas production was
down 1.9 percent, as field decline was partially offset by higher demand and
lower downtime.  Earnings from      

44       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

U.S. Upstream
operations for 2012 were $3,925 million, down $1,171 million from 2011. 
Earnings outside the U.S. were $25,970 million, down $3,373 million.   

2011    

  Upstream earnings were $34,439 million, up
$10,342 million from 2010. Higher crude oil and natural gas realizations
increased earnings by $10.6 billion, while volume and production mix
effects decreased earnings by $2.5 billion. All other items increased earnings
by $2.2 billion, driven by higher gains on asset sales of $2.7 billion, partly
offset by increased operating activity. On an oil-equivalent basis, production
was up 1 percent compared to 2010. Excluding the impacts of entitlement
volumes, OPEC quota effects and divestments, production was up 4 percent.
Liquids production of 2,312 kbd decreased 110 kbd from 2010. Excluding the
impacts of entitlement volumes, OPEC quota effects and divestments, liquids
production was in line with 2010, as higher volumes from Qatar, the U.S., and
Iraq offset field decline. Natural gas production of 13,162 mcfd increased
1,014 mcfd from 2010, driven by additional U.S. unconventional gas volumes
and project ramp-ups in Qatar. Earnings from U.S. Upstream operations for 2011
were $5,096 million, an increase of $824 million. Earnings outside
the U.S. were $29,343 million, up $9,518 million.   

2012    

  Downstream earnings of $13,190 million increased
$8,731 million from 2011.  Stronger refining-driven margins increased earnings
by $2.6 billion, while volume and mix effects increased earnings by about $200
million.  All other items increased earnings by $5.9 billion due primarily to
the $5.3 billion gain associated with the Japan restructuring and other
divestment gains.  Petroleum product sales of 6,174 kbd decreased 239 kbd from
2011 due mainly to the Japan restructuring and divestments.  U.S. Downstream
earnings were $3,575 million, up $1,307 million from 2011.  Non-U.S. Downstream
earnings were $9,615 million, an increase of $7,424 million from last year.  

2011    

  Downstream earnings of $4,459 million increased
$892 million from 2010. Margins, mainly refining, increased earnings by $800
million. Volume and mix effects improved earnings by $630 million. All other
items, primarily the absence of favorable tax effects and higher expenses,
decreased earnings by $540 million. Petroleum product sales of 6,413 kbd
were in line with 2010. U.S. Downstream earnings were $2,268 million, up
$1,498 million from 2010. Non-U.S. Downstream earnings were $2,191
million, $606 million lower than 2010.   

45       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

2012    

  Chemical earnings of $3,898 million were $485 million
lower than 2011.  Margins decreased earnings by $440 million, while volume
effects lowered earnings by $100 million.  All other items increased earnings
by $50 million, as a $630 million gain associated with the Japan restructuring
and favorable tax impacts were mostly offset by unfavorable foreign exchange
effects and higher operating expenses.  Prime product sales of 24,157 kt (thousands
of metric tons) were down 849 kt from 2011.  U.S. Chemical earnings were $2,220
million, up $5 million from 2011. Non-U.S. Chemical earnings were $1,678
million, $490 million lower than last year.  

2011    

  Chemical earnings of $4,383 million were down
$530 million from 2010. Stronger margins increased earnings by $260
million, while lower volumes reduced earnings by $180 million. Other
items, including unfavorable tax effects and higher planned maintenance
expense, decreased earnings by $610 million. Prime product sales of
25,006 kt were down 885 kt from 2010. U.S. Chemical earnings were
$2,215 million, down $207 million from 2010. Non-U.S. Chemical
earnings were $2,168 million, $323 million lower than 2010.  

2012    

  Corporate and financing expenses were $2,103 million,
down $118 million from 2011.   

2011    

  Corporate
and financing expenses were $2,221 million, up $104 million from 2010.   

46       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

Total cash
and cash equivalents were $9.9 billion at the end of 2012, $3.1 billion lower
than the prior year. Higher earnings and a higher adjustment for non-cash
transactions were more than offset by lower proceeds from sales of subsidiaries
and property, plant and equipment, a net debt decrease compared to a prior year
debt increase, and a higher adjustment for net gains on asset sales.  Included
in total cash and cash equivalents at year-end 2012 was $0.3 billion of
restricted cash.   

  Total cash and cash equivalents were $13.1 billion at the end of 2011,
$4.6 billion higher than the prior year. Higher earnings, proceeds associated
with asset sales, including a $3.6 billion deposit for a potential asset sale,
and a net debt increase in contrast with prior year debt repurchases were
partially offset by a higher level of purchases of ExxonMobil shares and a
higher level of capital spending. Included in total cash and cash equivalents
at year-end 2011 was $0.4 billion of restricted cash. For additional details,
see the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.   

  Although the Corporation has access to significant capacity of
long-term and short-term liquidity, internally generated funds cover the
majority of its financial requirements. Cash that may be temporarily available
as surplus to the Corporation s immediate needs is carefully managed through
counterparty quality and investment guidelines to ensure it is secure and
readily available to meet the Corporation s cash requirements and to optimize
returns.   

  To support cash flows in future periods the Corporation will need to
continually find and develop new fields, and continue to develop and apply new
technologies and recovery processes to existing fields, in order to maintain or
increase production. After a period of production at plateau rates, it is the
nature of oil and gas fields eventually to produce at declining rates for the
remainder of their economic life. Averaged over all the Corporation s existing
oil and gas fields and without new projects, ExxonMobil s production is
expected to decline at an average of approximately 3 percent per year over the
next few years. Decline rates can vary widely by individual field due to a
number of factors, including, but not limited to, the type of reservoir, fluid
properties, recovery mechanisms, work activity, and age of the field.
Furthermore, the Corporation s net interest in production for individual fields
can vary with price and contractual terms.   

  The Corporation has long been successful at offsetting the effects of
natural field decline through disciplined investments in quality opportunities
and project execution. Over the last decade, this has resulted in net annual
additions to proved reserves that have exceeded the amount produced. Projects
are in progress or planned to increase production capacity. However, these
volume increases are subject to a variety of risks including project start-up
timing, operational outages, reservoir performance, crude oil and natural gas
prices, weather events, and regulatory changes. The Corporation s cash flows
are also highly dependent on crude oil and natural gas prices. Please refer to
Item 1A. Risk Factors for a more complete discussion of risks.   

  The Corporation s financial strength enables it to make large,
long-term capital expenditures. Capital and exploration expenditures in 2012
were $39.8 billion, reflecting the Corporation s continued active investment
program. The Corporation anticipates an investment profile of about $38 billion
per year for the next several years. Actual spending could vary depending on
the progress of individual projects and property acquisitions.  The Corporation
has a large and diverse portfolio of development projects and exploration
opportunities, which helps mitigate the overall political and technical risks
of the Corporation s Upstream segment and associated cash flow. Further, due to
its financial strength, debt capacity and diverse portfolio of opportunities,
the risk associated with failure or delay of any single project would not have
a significant impact on the Corporation s liquidity or ability to generate
sufficient cash flows for operations and its fixed commitments. The purchase
and sale of oil and gas properties have not had a significant impact on the
amount or timing of cash flows from operating activities.   

47       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

Cash Flow from Operating Activities   

2012    

  Cash provided by operating activities totaled $56.2
billion in 2012, $0.8 billion higher than 2011. The major source of funds was
net income including noncontrolling interests of $47.7 billion, an increase of
$5.5 billion.  The noncash provision of $15.9 billion for depreciation and
depletion was slightly higher than 2011.  The adjustments for other noncash
transactions and changes in operational working capital, excluding cash and debt,
both increased cash in 2012, while the adjustment for net gains on asset sales
decreased cash by $13.0 billion in 2012.    

2011    

  Cash provided by operating activities totaled $55.3
billion in 2011, $6.9 billion higher than 2010. The major source of funds was
net income including noncontrolling interests of $42.2 billion, adjusted for
the noncash provision of $15.6 billion for depreciation and depletion, both of
which increased. Changes in operational working capital, excluding cash and
debt, and the adjustment for net gains on asset sales decreased cash in 2011.
Net working capital continued to be negative as total current liabilities of
$77.5 billion exceeded total current assets of $73.0 billion at year-end 2011.   

Cash Flow from
Investing Activities   

2012   

  Cash used in investment activities netted to $25.6
billion in 2012, $3.4 billion higher than 2011. Spending for property, plant
and equipment of $34.3 billion increased $3.3 billion from 2011. Proceeds
associated with sales of subsidiaries, property, plant and equipment, and sales
and returns of investments of $7.7 billion compared to $11.1 billion in 2011.
The decrease reflects that a $3.6 billion deposit was received in 2011 for a
sale that closed in 2012. Additional investments and advances were $2.6 billion
lower in 2012.   

2011    

  Cash used in investment activities netted to $22.2
billion in 2011, $2.0 billion lower than 2010. Spending for property, plant and
equipment of $31.0 billion increased $4.1 billion from 2010. Proceeds
associated with sales of subsidiaries, property, plant and equipment, and sales
and returns of investments of $11.1 billion compared to $3.3 billion in 2010.
The increase primarily reflects the sale of Upstream Canadian, U.K. and other
producing properties and assets, the sale of U.S. service stations, and a
$3.6 billion deposit for a potential asset sale. Additional investments
and advances were $2.3 billion higher in 2011.   

Cash Flow from
Financing Activities    

2012    

  Cash used in
financing activities was $33.9 billion in 2012, $5.6 billion higher than 2011.
Dividend payments on common shares increased to $2.18 per share from $1.85 per
share and totaled $10.1 billion, a pay-out of 22 percent of net income. Total
debt decreased $5.5 billion to $11.6 billion at year-end.   

  ExxonMobil share of equity increased $11.5 billion to $165.9 billion.
The addition to equity for earnings of $44.9 billion was partially offset by
reductions for distributions to ExxonMobil shareholders of $10.1 billion of
dividends and $20.0 billion of purchases of shares of ExxonMobil stock to
reduce shares outstanding.   

  During 2012, Exxon Mobil
Corporation purchased 244 million shares of its common stock for the treasury
at a gross cost of $21.1 billion. These purchases were to reduce the number of
shares outstanding and to offset shares issued in conjunction with company
benefit plans and programs. Shares outstanding were reduced by 4.9 percent from
4,734 million to 4,502 million at the end of 2012. Purchases were made in both
the open market and through negotiated transactions. Purchases may be
increased, decreased or discontinued at any time without prior notice.  

2011    

  Cash used in
financing activities was $28.3 billion in 2011, $1.3 billion higher than 2010.
Dividend payments on common shares increased to $1.85 per share from $1.74 per
share and totaled $9.0 billion, a pay-out of 22 percent of net income. Total
debt increased $2.0 billion to $17.0 billion at year-end.   

  ExxonMobil share of equity increased $7.6 billion to $154.4 billion.
The addition to equity for earnings of $41.1 billion was partially offset by
reductions for distributions to ExxonMobil shareholders of $9.0 billion of
dividends and $20.0 billion of      

48       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

purchases of shares of
ExxonMobil stock to reduce shares outstanding. The change in the funded status
of the postretirement benefits reserves in 2011 decreased equity by $4.6
billion.   

  During 2011, Exxon Mobil
Corporation purchased 278 million shares of its common stock for the treasury
at a gross cost of $22.1 billion. These purchases were to reduce the number of
shares outstanding and to offset shares issued in conjunction with company
benefit plans and programs. Shares outstanding were reduced by 4.9 percent from
4,979 million to 4,734 million at the end of 2011. Purchases were made in both
the open market and through negotiated transactions.  

49       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

Commitments    

  Set forth
below is information about the outstanding commitments of the Corporation s
consolidated subsidiaries at December 31, 2012. It combines data from the
Consolidated Balance Sheet and from individual notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.   

This table
excludes commodity purchase obligations (volumetric commitments but no fixed or
minimum price) which are resold shortly after purchase, either in an active,
highly liquid market or under long-term, unconditional sales contracts with
similar pricing terms. Examples include long-term, noncancelable LNG and
natural gas purchase commitments and commitments to purchase refinery products
at market prices. Inclusion of such commitments would not be meaningful in
assessing liquidity and cash flow, because these purchases will be offset in
the same periods by cash received from the related sales transactions. The
table also excludes unrecognized tax benefits totaling $7.7 billion as of
December 31, 2012, because the Corporation is unable to make reasonably
reliable estimates of the timing of cash settlements with the respective taxing
authorities. Further details on the unrecognized tax benefits can be found in
Note 19, Income, Sales-Based and Other Taxes.   

  Notes:   

   (1)   Includes capitalized lease
obligations of $431 million.    

   (2)   The amount due in one year is
included in notes and loans payable of $3,653 million.    

   (3)   The fair value of asset
retirement obligations, primarily upstream asset removal costs at the
completion of field life.    

   (4)   The amount by which the
benefit obligations exceeded the fair value of fund assets for certain U.S. and
non-U.S. pension and other postretirement plans at year end. The payments by
period include expected contributions to funded pension plans in 2013 and
estimated benefit payments for unfunded plans in all years.    

   (5)   Minimum commitments for
operating leases, shown on an undiscounted basis, cover drilling equipment,
tankers, service stations and other properties.    

   (6)   Unconditional purchase
obligations (UPOs) are those long-term commitments that are noncancelable or
cancelable only under certain conditions, and that third parties have used to
secure financing for the facilities that will provide the contracted goods or
services. The undiscounted obligations of $1,127 million mainly pertain to
pipeline throughput agreements and include $584 million of obligations to
equity companies.    

   (7)   Take-or-pay obligations are
noncancelable, long-term commitments for goods and services other than UPOs.
The undiscounted obligations of $26,209 million mainly pertain to manufacturing
supply, pipeline and terminaling agreements and include $187 million of
obligations to equity companies.    

   (8)   Firm commitments related to
capital projects, shown on an undiscounted basis, totaled approximately $32.5
billion. These commitments were primarily associated with Upstream projects
outside the U.S., of which $18.4 billion was associated with projects in Canada,
Australia, Africa and Malaysia.  The Corporation expects to fund the majority
of these projects through internal cash flow.    

50       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

Guarantees    

  The
Corporation and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries were contingently
liable at December 31, 2012, for guarantees relating to notes, loans and
performance under contracts (Note 16). Where guarantees for environmental
remediation and other similar matters do not include a stated cap, the amounts
reflect management s estimate of the maximum potential exposure. These guarantees
are not reasonably likely to have a material effect on the Corporation s financial
condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of
operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.   

Financial Strength    

  On
December 31, 2012, unused credit lines for short-term financing totaled
approximately $3.5 billion (Note 6).   

  The table below shows the Corporation s fixed-charge coverage
and consolidated debt-to-capital ratios. The data demonstrate the
Corporation s creditworthiness.   

Management
views the Corporation s financial strength, as evidenced by the above financial
ratios and other similar measures, to be a competitive advantage of strategic
importance. The Corporation s sound financial position gives it the opportunity
to access the world s capital markets in the full range of market conditions,
and enables the Corporation to take on large, long-term capital commitments in
the pursuit of maximizing shareholder value.   

Litigation and Other Contingencies    

  As discussed
in Note 16, a variety of claims have been made against ExxonMobil and certain
of its consolidated subsidiaries in a number of pending lawsuits. Based on a
consideration of all relevant facts and circumstances, the Corporation does not
believe the ultimate outcome of any currently pending lawsuit against
ExxonMobil will have a material adverse effect upon the Corporation s
operations, financial condition, or financial statements taken as a whole.
There are no events or uncertainties beyond those already included in reported
financial information that would indicate a material change in future operating
results or financial condition. Refer to Note 16 for additional information on
legal proceedings and other contingencies.   

51       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

Capital and
exploration expenditures in 2012 were $39.8 billion, as the Corporation
continued to pursue opportunities to find and produce new supplies of oil and
natural gas to meet global demand for energy. The Corporation anticipates an
investment profile of about $38 billion per year for the next several years.
Actual spending could vary depending on the progress of individual projects and
property acquisitions.  

  Upstream spending of $36.1 billion in 2012 was up 9 percent from 2011,
reflecting investments in the Gulf of Mexico and continued progress on
world-class projects in Canada, Australia and Papua New Guinea. Property
acquisition costs in 2012 were comparable to 2011. The majority of expenditures
are on development projects, which typically take two to four years from the
time of recording proved undeveloped reserves to the start of production from
those reserves. The percentage of proved developed reserves was 61 percent of
total proved reserves at year-end 2012, and has been over 60 percent for the
last five years, indicating that proved reserves are consistently moved from
undeveloped to developed status. Capital investments in the Downstream totaled
$2.3 billion in 2012, an increase of $0.1 billion from 2011, mainly reflecting
higher environmental and energy-related refining project spending. The Chemical
capital expenditures of $1.4 billion were the same level as in 2011 with higher
investments in the U.S., Saudi Arabia and China offsetting reduced spending on
the Singapore expansion as it approaches full start-up.  

2012    

  Income,
sales-based and all other taxes and duties totaled $102.3 billion in 2012, a
decrease of $5.8 billion or 5 percent from 2011. Income tax expense, both
current and deferred, was $31.0 billion, flat with 2011, with the impact of
higher earnings offset by the lower effective tax rate.  The effective tax rate
was 44 percent compared to 46 percent in the prior year due to a lower
effective tax rate on divestments.  Sales-based and all other taxes and duties
of $71.3 billion in 2012 decreased $5.8 billion reflecting the Japan restructuring.

2011    

  Income, sales based and all other taxes and duties
totaled $108.1 billion in 2011, an increase of $18.9 billion or 21 percent from
2010. Income tax expense, both current and deferred, was $31.1 billion, $9.5
billion higher than 2010, reflecting higher pre-tax income in 2011. A higher
share of pre-tax income from the Upstream segment in 2011 increased the
effective tax rate to 46 percent compared to 45 percent in 2010. Sales-based
and all other taxes and duties of $77.0 billion in 2011 increased $9.4 billion,
reflecting higher prices.   

52       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS   

Throughout
ExxonMobil s businesses, new and ongoing measures are taken to prevent and
minimize the impact of our operations on air, water and ground. These
include a significant investment in refining infrastructure and technology to
manufacture clean fuels as well as projects to monitor and reduce nitrogen
oxide, sulfur oxide and greenhouse gas emissions and expenditures for asset
retirement obligations. Using definitions and guidelines established by the American
Petroleum Institute, ExxonMobil s 2012 worldwide environmental expenditures for
all such preventative and remediation steps, including ExxonMobil s share of
equity company expenditures, were about $5.5 billion. The total cost for
such activities is expected to have a modest increase in 2013 and 2014 (with
capital expenditures approximately 45 percent of the total).   

Environmental Liabilities    

  The
Corporation accrues environmental liabilities when it is probable that
obligations have been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated.
This policy applies to assets or businesses currently owned or previously
disposed. ExxonMobil has accrued liabilities for probable environmental
remediation obligations at various sites, including multiparty sites where the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has identified ExxonMobil as one of the
potentially responsible parties. The involvement of other financially
responsible companies at these multiparty sites could mitigate ExxonMobil s
actual joint and several liability exposure. At present, no individual site is
expected to have losses material to ExxonMobil s operations or financial condition.
Consolidated company provisions made in 2012 for environmental liabilities were
$391 million ($420 million in 2011) and the balance sheet reflects accumulated
liabilities of $841 million as of December 31, 2012, and $886 million as
of December 31, 2011.   

MARKET RISKS, INFLATION AND OTHER
UNCERTAINTIES    

Crude oil,
natural gas, petroleum product and chemical prices have fluctuated in response
to changing market forces. The impacts of these price fluctuations on earnings
from Upstream, Downstream and Chemical operations have varied. In the Upstream,
a $1 per barrel change in the weighted-average realized price of oil
would have approximately a $350 million annual after-tax effect on Upstream
consolidated plus equity company earnings. Similarly, a $0.10 per kcf change in
the worldwide average gas realization would have approximately a $200 million
annual after-tax effect on Upstream consolidated plus equity company earnings.
For any given period, the extent of actual benefit or detriment will be
dependent on the price movements of individual types of crude oil, taxes and
other government take impacts, price adjustment lags in long-term gas
contracts, and crude and gas production volumes. Accordingly, changes in
benchmark prices for crude oil and natural gas only provide broad indicators of
changes in the earnings experienced in any particular period.   

  In the very competitive downstream and chemical environments, earnings
are primarily determined by margin capture rather than absolute price levels of
products sold. Refining margins are a function of the difference between what a
refiner pays for its raw materials (primarily crude oil) and the market prices
for the range of products produced. These prices in turn depend on global and
regional supply/demand balances, inventory levels, refinery operations,
import/export balances and weather.   

  The global energy markets can give rise to extended periods in which
market conditions are adverse to one or more of the Corporation s businesses.
Such conditions, along with the capital-intensive nature of the industry and
very long lead times associated with many of our projects, underscore the
importance of maintaining a strong financial position. Management views the
Corporation s financial strength as a competitive advantage.   

53       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

In general, segment results are not dependent on the
ability to sell and/or purchase products to/from other segments. Instead, where
such sales take place, they are the result of efficiencies and competitive
advantages of integrated refinery/chemical complexes. Additionally,
intersegment sales are at market-based prices. The products bought and sold
between segments can also be acquired in worldwide markets that have
substantial liquidity, capacity and transportation capabilities. About 35
percent of the Corporation s intersegment sales are crude oil produced by the
Upstream and sold to the Downstream. Other intersegment sales include those
between refineries and chemical plants related to raw materials, feedstocks and
finished products.   

  Although price levels of crude oil and natural gas may rise or fall
significantly over the short to medium term due to political events, OPEC
actions and other factors, industry economics over the long term will continue
to be driven by market supply and demand. Accordingly, the Corporation tests
the viability of all of its investments over a broad range of future prices.
The Corporation s assessment is that its operations will continue to be
successful in a variety of market conditions. This is the outcome of
disciplined investment and asset management programs.   

  The Corporation has an active asset management program in which
underperforming assets are either improved to acceptable levels or considered
for divestment. The asset management program includes a disciplined, regular
review to ensure that all assets are contributing to the Corporation s
strategic objectives. The result is an efficient capital base, and the
Corporation has seldom had to write down the carrying value of assets, even
during periods of low commodity prices.   

Risk Management    

  The Corporation s
size, strong capital structure, geographic diversity and the complementary
nature of the Upstream, Downstream and Chemical businesses reduce the
Corporation s enterprise-wide risk from changes in interest rates, currency
rates and commodity prices. As a result, the Corporation makes limited use of
derivative instruments to mitigate the impact of such changes. With respect to
derivatives activities, the Corporation believes that there are no material
market or credit risks to the Corporation s financial position, results of
operations or liquidity as a result of the derivatives described in Note 13.
The Corporation does not engage in speculative derivative activities or
derivative trading activities nor does it use derivatives with leveraged
features. Credit risk associated with the Corporation s derivative position is
mitigated by several factors, including the quality of and financial limits
placed on derivative counterparties. The Corporation maintains a system of
controls that includes the authorization, reporting and monitoring of
derivative activity.   

  The Corporation is exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on
its short-term debt and the portion of long-term debt that carries floating
interest rates. The impact of a 100-basis-point change in interest rates
affecting the Corporation s debt would not be material to earnings, cash flow
or fair value. Although the Corporation issues long-term debt from time to time
and maintains a commercial paper program, internally generated funds are expected
to cover the majority of its net near-term financial requirements. However,
some joint-venture partners are dependent on the credit markets, and their
funding ability may impact the development pace of joint-venture projects.   

  The Corporation conducts business in many foreign currencies and is
subject to exchange rate risk on cash flows related to sales, expenses,
financing and investment transactions. The impacts of fluctuations in exchange
rates on ExxonMobil s geographically and functionally diverse operations are
varied and often offsetting in amount. The Corporation makes limited use of
currency exchange contracts to mitigate the impact of changes in currency
values, and exposures related to the Corporation s limited use of the currency
exchange contracts are not material.   

Inflation and Other Uncertainties    

  The general
rate of inflation in many major countries of operation has remained moderate
over the past few years, and the associated impact on non-energy costs has
generally been mitigated by cost reductions from efficiency and productivity
improvements. Increased demand for certain services and materials has resulted
in higher operating and capital costs in recent years. The Corporation works to
counter upward pressure on costs through its economies of scale in global
procurement and its efficient project management practices.   

54       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

  The
Corporation s accounting and financial reporting fairly reflect its
straightforward business model involving the extracting, refining and marketing
of hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon-based products. The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
(GAAP) requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Corporation s accounting
policies are summarized in Note 1.   

Oil and Gas Reserves    

  Evaluations
of oil and gas reserves are important to the effective management of upstream
assets. They are integral to making investment decisions about oil and gas
properties such as whether development should proceed. Oil and gas reserve
quantities are also used as the basis for calculating unit-of-production depreciation
rates and for evaluating impairment.   

  Oil and gas reserves include both proved and unproved
reserves. Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities of oil and gas,
which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with
reasonable certainty to be economically producible. Unproved reserves are those
with less than reasonable certainty of recoverability and include probable
reserves. Probable reserves are reserves that are more likely to be recovered
than not.   

  The estimation of proved reserves is an ongoing
process based on rigorous technical evaluations, commercial and market
assessment, and detailed analysis of well information such as flow rates and
reservoir pressure declines. The estimation of proved reserves is controlled by
the Corporation through long-standing approval guidelines. Reserve changes are
made within a well-established, disciplined process driven by senior level
geoscience and engineering professionals, assisted by the Reserves Technical
Oversight group which has significant technical experience, culminating in
reviews with and approval by senior management. Notably, the Corporation does
not use specific quantitative reserve targets to determine compensation. Key
features of the reserve estimation process are covered in Disclosure of
Reserves in Item 2.   

  Although the Corporation is reasonably certain that
proved reserves will be produced, the timing and amount recovered can be
affected by a number of factors including completion of development projects,
reservoir performance, regulatory approvals and significant changes in
long-term oil and gas price levels.   

  Proved reserves can be further subdivided into
developed and undeveloped reserves. The percentage of proved developed reserves
was 61 percent of total proved reserves at year-end 2012 (including both
consolidated and equity company reserves), and has been over 60 percent for the
last five years, indicating that proved reserves are consistently moved from
undeveloped to developed status.   

  Revisions can include upward or downward changes in
previously estimated volumes of proved reserves for existing fields due to the
evaluation or re-evaluation of (1) already available geologic, reservoir
or production data, (2) new geologic, reservoir or production data or (3) changes
in prices and year-end costs that are used in the estimation of reserves.
Revisions can also result from significant changes in development strategy or
production equipment/facility capacity.   

   Impact
of Oil and Gas Reserves on Depreciation.   
The calculation of unit-of-production depreciation is a critical accounting
estimate that measures the depreciation of upstream assets. It is the ratio of
actual volumes produced to total proved developed reserves (those proved
reserves recoverable through existing wells with existing equipment and
operating methods), applied to the asset cost. The volumes produced and asset
cost are known and, while proved developed reserves have a high probability of
recoverability, they are based on estimates that are subject to some
variability. While the revisions the Corporation has made in the past are an
indicator of variability, they have had a very small impact on the
unit-of-production rates because they have been small compared to the large
reserves base.   

   Impact
of Oil and Gas Reserves and Prices on Testing for Impairment.    Proved oil and gas properties held and used by the
Corporation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances
indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Assets are grouped
at the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows that are
largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets.   

  The Corporation estimates the future undiscounted cash
flows of the affected properties to judge the recoverability of carrying
amounts. Impairment analyses are generally based on proved reserves. Where
probable reserves exist, an appropriately risk-adjusted amount of these
reserves may be included in the impairment evaluation. An asset group would be
impaired if its undiscounted cash flows were less than the asset s carrying
value. Impairments are measured by the amount by which the carrying value
exceeds fair value.   

  Significant unproved properties are assessed for
impairment individually, and valuation allowances against the capitalized costs
are recorded based on the estimated economic chance of success and the length
of time that the Corporation expects to hold the properties. Properties that
are not individually significant are aggregated by groups and amortized based
on development risk and average holding period.   

55       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

The Corporation performs
asset valuation analyses on an ongoing basis as a part of its asset management
program. These analyses assist the Corporation in assessing whether the
carrying amounts of any of its assets may not be recoverable. In addition to
estimating oil and gas reserve volumes in conducting these analyses, it is also
necessary to estimate future oil and gas prices. Potential trigger events for
impairment evaluation include a significant decrease in current and projected
reserve volumes, an accumulation of project costs significantly in excess of
the amount originally expected, and current period operating losses combined
with a history and forecast of operating or cash flow losses.   

  In general, the Corporation does not view temporarily
low prices or margins as a trigger event for conducting the impairment tests.
The markets for crude oil and natural gas have a history of significant price
volatility. Although prices will occasionally drop significantly, industry
prices over the long term will continue to be driven by market supply and
demand. On the supply side, industry production from mature fields is
declining, but this is being offset by production from new discoveries and
field developments. OPEC production policies also have an impact on world oil
supplies. The demand side is largely a function of global economic growth. The
relative growth/decline in supply versus demand will determine industry prices
over the long term, and these cannot be accurately predicted.   

  Accordingly, any impairment tests that the Corporation
performs make use of the Corporation s price assumptions developed in the
annual planning and budgeting process for the crude oil and natural gas
markets, petroleum products and chemicals. These are the same price assumptions
that are used for capital investment decisions. Volumes are based on field
production profiles, which are updated annually. Cash flow estimates for
impairment testing exclude the effects of derivative instruments.   

  Supplemental information regarding oil and gas results
of operations, capitalized costs and reserves is provided following the notes
to consolidated financial statements. Future prices used for any impairment
tests will vary from the ones used in the supplemental oil and gas disclosure
and could be lower or higher for any given year.   

Asset Retirement Obligations    

  The
Corporation incurs retirement obligations for certain assets. The fair values
of these obligations are recorded as liabilities on a discounted basis, which
is typically at the time the assets are installed. In the estimation of fair
value, the Corporation uses assumptions and judgments regarding such factors as
the existence of a legal obligation for an asset retirement obligation;
technical assessments of the assets; estimated amounts and timing of
settlements; discount rates; and inflation rates. Asset retirement obligations
are disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.   

Suspended Exploratory Well Costs    

  The
Corporation continues capitalization of exploratory well costs when the well
has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a
producing well and the Corporation is making sufficient progress assessing the
reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. Exploratory
well costs not meeting these criteria are charged to expense. The facts and
circumstances that support continued capitalization of suspended wells as of
year-end 2012 are disclosed in Note 10 to the financial statements.   

Consolidations    

  The
Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of those subsidiaries
that the Corporation controls. They also include the Corporation s share of the
undivided interest in certain upstream assets and liabilities. Amounts representing
the Corporation s interest in the underlying net assets of other significant
entities that it does not control, but over which it exercises significant
influence, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.   

  Investments in companies that are partially owned by
the Corporation are integral to the Corporation s operations. In some cases
they serve to balance worldwide risks, and in others they provide the only
available means of entry into a particular market or area of interest. The other
parties who also have an equity interest in these companies are either
independent third parties or host governments that share in the business
results according to their ownership. The Corporation does not invest in these
companies in order to remove liabilities from its balance sheet. In fact, the
Corporation has long been on record supporting an alternative accounting method
that would require each investor to consolidate its share of all assets and
liabilities in these partially owned companies rather than only its interest in
net equity. This method of accounting for investments in partially-owned
companies is not permitted by U.S. GAAP except where the investments are in the
direct ownership of a share of upstream assets and liabilities. However, for
purposes of calculating return on average capital employed, which is not
covered by U.S. GAAP standards, the Corporation includes its share of debt of
these partially-owned companies in the determination of average capital
employed.   

56       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

Pension Benefits    

  The
Corporation and its affiliates sponsor over 100 defined benefit (pension) plans
in about 50 countries. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (Note 17)
provides details on pension obligations, fund assets and pension expense.   

  Some of these plans (primarily non-U.S.) provide
pension benefits that are paid directly by their sponsoring affiliates out of
corporate cash flow rather than a separate pension fund. Book reserves are
established for these plans because tax conventions and regulatory practices do
not encourage advance funding. The portion of the pension cost attributable to
employee service is expensed as services are rendered. The portion attributable
to the increase in pension obligations due to the passage of time is expensed
over the term of the obligations, which ends when all benefits are paid. The
primary difference in pension expense for unfunded versus funded plans is that
pension expense for funded plans also includes a credit for the expected
long-term return on fund assets.  

  For funded plans, including those in the U.S., pension
obligations are financed in advance through segregated assets or insurance
arrangements. These plans are managed in compliance with the requirements of
governmental authorities and meet or exceed required funding levels as measured
by relevant actuarial and government standards at the mandated measurement
dates. In determining liabilities and required contributions, these standards
often require approaches and assumptions that differ from those used for accounting
purposes.   

  The Corporation will continue to make contributions to
these funded plans as necessary. All defined-benefit pension obligations,
regardless of the funding status of the underlying plans, are fully supported
by the financial strength of the Corporation or the respective sponsoring
affiliate.   

  Pension accounting requires explicit assumptions
regarding, among others, the long-term expected earnings rate on fund assets,
the discount rate for the benefit obligations and the long-term rate for future
salary increases. Pension assumptions are reviewed annually by outside
actuaries and senior management. These assumptions are adjusted as appropriate
to reflect changes in market rates and outlook. The long-term expected earnings
rate on U.S. pension plan assets in 2012 was 7.25 percent. The 10 year
and 20 year actual returns on U.S. pension plan assets were both 9 percent.
The Corporation establishes the long-term expected rate of return by developing
a forward-looking, long-term return assumption for each pension fund asset
class, taking into account factors such as the expected real return for the
specific asset class and inflation. A single, long-term rate of return is then
calculated as the weighted average of the target asset allocation percentages and
the long-term return assumption for each asset class. A worldwide reduction of
0.5 percent in the long-term rate of return on assets would increase annual
pension expense by approximately $150 million before tax.   

  Differences between actual returns on fund assets and
the long-term expected return are not recognized in pension expense in the year
that the difference occurs. Such differences are deferred, along with other
actuarial gains and losses, and are amortized into pension expense over the
expected remaining service life of employees.   

Litigation Contingencies    

  A
variety of claims have been made against the Corporation and certain of its
consolidated subsidiaries in a number of pending lawsuits. Management has
regular litigation reviews, including updates from corporate and outside
counsel, to assess the need for accounting recognition or disclosure of these
contingencies. The status of significant claims is summarized in Note 16.   

  The Corporation accrues an undiscounted liability for
those contingencies where the incurrence of a loss is probable, and the amount
can be reasonably estimated. These amounts are not reduced by amounts that may
be recovered under insurance or claims against third parties, but undiscounted
receivables from insurers or other third parties may be accrued separately. The
Corporation revises such accruals in light of new information. For
contingencies where an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible and which are
significant, the Corporation discloses the nature of the contingency and, where
feasible, an estimate of the possible loss. For purposes of our litigation
contingency disclosures,  significant  includes material matters as well as
other items which management believes should be disclosed.   

  Management judgment is required related to contingent
liabilities and the outcome of litigation because both are difficult to
predict. However, the Corporation has been successful in defending litigation
in the past. Payments have not had a material adverse effect on operations or financial
condition. In the Corporation s experience, large claims often do not result in
large awards. Large awards are often reversed or substantially reduced as a
result of appeal or settlement.   

Tax Contingencies    

  The
Corporation is subject to income taxation in many jurisdictions around the
world. Significant management judgment is required in the accounting for income
tax contingencies and tax disputes because the outcomes are often difficult to
predict.   

  The benefits of uncertain tax positions
that the Corporation has taken or expects to take in its income tax returns are
recognized in the financial statements if management concludes that it is more
likely than not that the position will be sustained      

57       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

with
the tax authorities. For a position that is likely to be sustained, the benefit
recognized in the financial statements is measured at the largest amount that
is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized. A reserve is established
for the difference between a position taken or expected to be taken in an
income tax return and the amount recognized in the financial statements. The
Corporation s unrecognized tax benefits and a description of open tax years are
summarized in Note 19.  

Foreign Currency Translation    

  The
method of translating the foreign currency financial statements of the
Corporation s international subsidiaries into U.S. dollars is prescribed by
GAAP. Under these principles, it is necessary to select the functional currency
of these subsidiaries. The functional currency is the currency of the primary
economic environment in which the subsidiary operates. Management selects the
functional currency after evaluating this economic environment.   

  Factors considered by management when determining the
functional currency for a subsidiary include the currency used for cash flows
related to individual assets and liabilities; the responsiveness of sales
prices to changes in exchange rates; the history of inflation in the country;
whether sales are into local markets or exported; the currency used to acquire
raw materials, labor, services and supplies; sources of financing; and
significance of intercompany transactions.  

58       

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL

REPORTING   

Management, including the Corporation s chief
executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting
officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over the Corporation s financial reporting. Management conducted an
evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
based on criteria established in    Internal Control   Integrated
Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that Exxon
Mobil Corporation s internal control over financial reporting was effective as
of December 31, 2012.   

  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, audited the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, as stated in
their report included in the Financial Section of this report.   

Rex W. Tillerson  
    Chief
  Executive Officer  

Andrew P. Swiger  
    Senior Vice President  
    (Principal
  Financial Officer)  

Patrick T. Mulva  
    Vice President and Controller  
    (Principal
  Accounting Officer)  

59       

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC

ACCOUNTING FIRM      

To the Shareholders of Exxon Mobil
Corporation:   

  In our opinion, the accompanying Consolidated Balance
Sheets and the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income,
Changes in Equity and Cash Flows present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Exxon Mobil Corporation and its subsidiaries at
December 31, 2012, and 2011, and the results of their operations and their
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2012, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America. Also in our opinion, the Corporation maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in    Internal Control  
Integrated Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Corporation s management is responsible for
these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to
express opinions on these financial statements and on the Corporation s
internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our
audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinions.   

  A company s internal control over financial reporting
is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.   

  /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP   

  Dallas, Texas   

  February 27, 2013   

60       

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME   

(1)   Sales and other operating
revenue includes sales-based taxes of $32,409 million for 2012, $33,503 million
for 2011 and $28,547 million for 2010.    

The
information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral
part of these statements.    

61       

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME   

The
information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral
part of these statements.    

62       

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET   

The
information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral
part of these statements.    

63       

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS   

The
information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral
part of these statements.    

64       

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY   

The
information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral
part of these statements.    

65       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

The accompanying consolidated financial statements and
the supporting and supplemental material are the responsibility of the
management of Exxon Mobil Corporation.   

  The Corporation s principal business is energy,
involving the worldwide exploration, production, transportation and sale of
crude oil and natural gas (Upstream) and the manufacture, transportation and
sale of petroleum products (Downstream). The Corporation is also a major
worldwide manufacturer and marketer of petrochemicals (Chemical) and
participates in electric power generation (Upstream).   

  The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) requires management
to make estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Actual results could differ from these estimates. Prior years  data has been
reclassified in certain cases to conform to the 2012 presentation basis.   

1. Summary of Accounting Policies    

   Principles
of Consolidation.    The Consolidated
Financial Statements include the accounts of subsidiaries the Corporation
controls. They also include the Corporation s share of the undivided interest
in certain upstream assets and liabilities.   

  Amounts representing the Corporation s interest in
entities that it does not control, but over which it exercises significant
influence, are included in  Investments, advances and long-term receivables. 
The Corporation s share of the net income of these companies is included in the
Consolidated Statement of Income caption  Income from equity affiliates.    

  Majority ownership is normally the indicator of
control that is the basis on which subsidiaries are consolidated. However,
certain factors may indicate that a majority-owned investment is not controlled
and therefore should be accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
These factors occur where the minority shareholders are granted by law or by
contract substantive participating rights. These include the right to approve
operating policies, expense budgets, financing and investment plans, and
management compensation and succession plans.   

  The Corporation s share of the cumulative foreign
exchange translation adjustment for equity method investments is reported in Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Income.   

  Evidence of loss in value that might indicate
impairment of investments in companies accounted for on the equity method is
assessed to determine if such evidence represents a loss in value of the
Corporation s investment that is other than temporary. Examples of key
indicators include a history of operating losses, a negative earnings and cash
flow outlook, significant downward revisions to oil and gas reserves, and the
financial condition and prospects for the investee s business segment or
geographic region. If evidence of an other than temporary loss in fair value
below carrying amount is determined, an impairment is recognized. In the
absence of market prices for the investment, discounted cash flows are used to
assess fair value.   

   Revenue
Recognition.    The Corporation
generally sells crude oil, natural gas and petroleum and chemical products
under short-term agreements at prevailing market prices. In some cases (e.g.,
natural gas), products may be sold under long-term agreements, with periodic
price adjustments. Revenues are recognized when the products are delivered,
which occurs when the customer has taken title and has assumed the risks and
rewards of ownership, prices are fixed or determinable and collectibility is
reasonably assured.   

  Revenues from the production of natural gas properties
in which the Corporation has an interest with other producers are recognized on
the basis of the Corporation s net working interest. Differences between actual
production and net working interest volumes are not significant.   

  Purchases and sales of inventory with the same
counterparty that are entered into in contemplation of one another are combined
and recorded as exchanges measured at the book value of the item sold.   

   Sales-Based
Taxes.    The Corporation reports sales,
excise and value-added taxes on sales transactions on a gross basis in the
Consolidated Statement of Income (included in both revenues and costs).   

   Derivative
Instruments.    The Corporation makes
limited use of derivative instruments. The Corporation does not engage in
speculative derivative activities or derivative trading activities, nor does it
use derivatives with leveraged features. When the Corporation does enter into
derivative transactions, it is to offset exposures associated with interest
rates, foreign currency exchange rates and hydrocarbon prices that arise from
existing assets, liabilities and forecasted transactions.   

  The gains and losses resulting from changes in the
fair value of derivatives are recorded in income. In some cases, the
Corporation designates derivatives as fair value hedges, in which case the
gains and losses are offset in income by the gains and losses arising from
changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged item.   

   Fair
Value.    Fair value is the price that
would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an
orderly transaction between market participants. Hierarchy Levels 1, 2 and 3
are terms for the priority of inputs to valuation techniques used to measure
fair value. Hierarchy Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in active markets for
identical assets or liabilities. Hierarchy      

66       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Level 2
inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that
are directly or indirectly observable for the asset or liability. Hierarchy
Level 3 inputs are inputs that are not observable in the market  .   

   Inventories.
   Crude oil, products and merchandise
inventories are carried at the lower of current market value or cost (generally
determined under the last-in, first-out method   LIFO). Inventory costs include
expenditures and other charges (including depreciation) directly and indirectly
incurred in bringing the inventory to its existing condition and location.
Selling expenses and general and administrative expenses are reported as period
costs and excluded from inventory cost. Inventories of materials and supplies
are valued at cost or less.   

   Property,
Plant and Equipment.    Depreciation,
depletion and amortization, based on cost less estimated salvage value of the
asset, are primarily determined under either the unit-of-production method or
the straight-line method, which is based on estimated asset service life taking
obsolescence into consideration. Maintenance and repairs, including planned
major maintenance, are expensed as incurred. Major renewals and improvements
are capitalized and the assets replaced are retired.   

  Interest costs incurred to finance expenditures during
the construction phase of multiyear projects are capitalized as part of the
historical cost of acquiring the constructed assets. The project construction
phase commences with the development of the detailed engineering design and
ends when the constructed assets are ready for their intended use. Capitalized
interest costs are included in property, plant and equipment and are
depreciated over the service life of the related assets.   

  The Corporation uses the  successful efforts  method
to account for its exploration and production activities. Under this method,
costs are accumulated on a field-by-field basis with certain exploratory
expenditures and exploratory dry holes being expensed as incurred. Costs of
productive wells and development dry holes are capitalized and amortized on the
unit-of-production method.   

  The Corporation carries as an asset exploratory well
costs when the well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its
completion as a producing well and where the Corporation is making sufficient progress
assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project.
Exploratory well costs not meeting these criteria are charged to expense. Other
exploratory expenditures, including geophysical costs and annual lease rentals,
are expensed as incurred.   

  Acquisition costs of proved properties are amortized
using a unit-of-production method, computed on the basis of total proved oil
and gas reserves.   

  Capitalized exploratory drilling and development costs
associated with productive depletable extractive properties are amortized using
unit-of-production rates based on the amount of proved developed reserves of
oil, gas and other minerals that are estimated to be recoverable from existing
facilities using current operating methods.   

  Under the unit-of-production method, oil and gas
volumes are considered produced once they have been measured through meters at
custody transfer or sales transaction points at the outlet valve on the lease
or field storage tank.   

  Production costs are expensed as incurred. Production
involves lifting the oil and gas to the surface and gathering, treating, field
processing and field storage of the oil and gas. The production function
normally terminates at the outlet valve on the lease or field production
storage tank. Production costs are those incurred to operate and maintain the
Corporation s wells and related equipment and facilities. They become part of
the cost of oil and gas produced. These costs, sometimes referred to as lifting
costs, include such items as labor costs to operate the wells and related
equipment; repair and maintenance costs on the wells and equipment; materials,
supplies and energy costs required to operate the wells and related equipment;
and administrative expenses related to the production activity.   

  Proved oil and gas properties held and used by the
Corporation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Assets
are grouped at the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows
that are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets.   

  The Corporation estimates the future undiscounted cash
flows of the affected properties to judge the recoverability of carrying
amounts. Cash flows used in impairment evaluations are developed using annually
updated corporate plan investment evaluation assumptions for crude oil
commodity prices, refining and chemical margins and foreign currency exchange
rates. Annual volumes are based on field production profiles, which are also
updated annually. Prices for natural gas and other products are based on
corporate plan assumptions developed annually by major region and also for
investment evaluation purposes. Cash flow estimates for impairment testing exclude
derivative instruments.   

  Impairment analyses are generally based on proved
reserves. Where probable reserves exist, an appropriately risk-adjusted amount
of these reserves may be included in the impairment evaluation. An asset group
would be impaired if the undiscounted cash flows were less than its carrying
value.  Impairments are measured by the amount the carrying value exceeds fair
value.   

  Significant unproved properties are assessed for
impairment individually, and valuation allowances against the capitalized costs
are recorded based on the estimated economic chance of success and the length
of time that the Corporation expects to hold the properties. Properties that
are not individually significant are aggregated by groups and amortized based
on development risk and average holding period. The valuation allowances are
reviewed at least annually.   

67       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Gains on sales of proved
and unproved properties are only recognized when there is neither uncertainty
about the recovery of costs applicable to any interest retained nor any
substantial obligation for future performance by the Corporation.   

  Losses on properties sold are recognized when incurred
or when the properties are held for sale and the fair value of the properties
is less than the carrying value.  

   Asset
Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities.    The Corporation incurs retirement obligations for
certain assets. The fair values of these obligations are recorded as
liabilities on a discounted basis, which is typically at the time the assets
are installed. The costs associated with these liabilities are capitalized as
part of the related assets and depreciated. Over time, the liabilities are
accreted for the change in their present value.   

  Liabilities for environmental costs are recorded when
it is probable that obligations have been incurred and the amounts can be
reasonably estimated. These liabilities are not reduced by possible recoveries
from third parties and projected cash expenditures are not discounted.   

   Foreign
Currency Translation.    The Corporation
selects the functional reporting currency for its international subsidiaries
based on the currency of the primary economic environment in which each
subsidiary operates.   

  Downstream and Chemical operations primarily use the
local currency. However, the U.S. dollar is used in countries with a history of
high inflation (primarily in Latin America) and Singapore, which predominantly
sells into the U.S. dollar export market. Upstream operations which are
relatively self-contained and integrated within a particular country, such as
Canada, the United Kingdom, Norway and continental Europe, use the local
currency. Some Upstream operations, primarily in Asia and Africa, use the U.S.
dollar because they predominantly sell crude and natural gas production into
U.S. dollar-denominated markets.   

  For all operations, gains or losses from remeasuring
foreign currency transactions into the functional currency are included in
income.   

   Stock-Based
Payments.    The Corporation awards
stock-based compensation to employees in the form of restricted stock and
restricted stock units. Compensation expense is measured by the market price of
the restricted shares at the date of grant and is recognized in the income
statement over the requisite service period of each award. See Note 15,
Incentive Program, for further details.   

2. Accounting Changes    

  The
Corporation did not adopt authoritative guidance in 2012 that had a material
impact on the Corporation s financial statements.   

3. Miscellaneous Financial Information    

  Research
and development expenses totaled $1,042 million in 2012, $1,044 million in 2011
and $1,012 million in 2010.   

  Net income included before-tax aggregate foreign
exchange transaction gains of $159 million, and losses of $184 million and $251
million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

  In 2012, 2011 and 2010, net income included gains of $328
million, $292 million and $317 million, respectively, attributable to the
combined effects of LIFO inventory accumulations and drawdowns. The aggregate
replacement cost of inventories was estimated to exceed their LIFO carrying
values by $21.3 billion and $25.6 billion at December 31, 2012, and 2011,
respectively.   

  Crude oil, products and merchandise as of
year-end 2012 and 2011 consist of the following:   

68       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

4.     Other Comprehensive Income
Information   

69       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

5. Cash Flow Information

The
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows provides information about changes in cash
and cash equivalents. Highly liquid investments with maturities of three months
or less when acquired are classified as cash equivalents.   

  The  Net (gain) on asset sales  in net cash provided
by operating activities on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows includes
before-tax gains from the Japan restructuring, the sale of an Upstream property
in Angola, exchanges of Upstream  properties, the sale of U.S. service stations,
and the sale of the Downstream affiliates in Malaysia and Switzerland in 2012;
from the sale of some Upstream Canadian, U.K. and other producing properties
and assets, and the sale of U.S. service stations in 2011; and from the sale of
some Upstream Gulf of Mexico and other producing properties, the sale of U.S.
service stations and other Downstream assets and investments and the formation
of a Chemical joint venture in 2010. These gains are reported in  Other income 
on the Consolidated Statement of Income.   

  In 2012, the Corporation s interest in a cost company
was redeemed.  As part of the redemption, a variable note due in 2035 issued by
Mobil Services (Bahamas) Ltd. was assigned to a consolidated ExxonMobil
affiliate.  This note is no longer classified as third party long-term debt. 
This assignment did not result in a  Reduction in long-term debt  on the
Statement of Cash Flows.  

  In 2012, ExxonMobil completed asset exchanges,
primarily noncash transactions, of approximately $1 billion.  This amount is
not included in the  Sales of subsidiaries, investments, and property, plant
and equipment  or the  Additions to property, plant and equipment  lines on the
Statement of Cash Flows.  

  In 2011, included in  Proceeds associated with sales
of subsidiaries, property, plant and equipment, and sales and returns of
investments  is a $3.6 billion deposit for an asset that was sold in 2012.  

  In 2010, the Corporation acquired all the outstanding
equity of XTO Energy Inc. in an all-stock transaction valued at $24,659 million.

6. Additional Working
Capital Information    

On
December 31, 2012, unused credit lines for short-term financing totaled
approximately $3.5 billion. Of this total, $3.0 billion supports commercial
paper programs under terms negotiated when drawn. The weighted-average interest
rate on short-term borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2012, and 2011,
was 1.7 percent and 1.9 percent, respectively.   

70       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

7. Equity Company
Information    

  The
summarized financial information below includes amounts related to certain
less-than-majority-owned companies and majority-owned subsidiaries where
minority shareholders possess the right to participate in significant
management decisions (see Note 1). These companies are primarily engaged
in crude production, natural gas production, natural gas marketing and refining
operations in North America; natural gas production, natural gas distribution
and downstream operations in Europe; refining operations, petrochemical
manufacturing, fuel sales and power generation in Asia; crude production in
Kazakhstan; and liquefied natural gas (LNG) operations in Qatar. Also included
are several refining, petrochemical manufacturing and chemical ventures.
The Corporation s ownership in these ventures is in the form of shares in
corporate joint ventures as well as interests in partnerships.   Differences between the company s carrying value of an equity
investment and its underlying equity in the net assets of the affiliate are
assigned to the extent practicable to specific assets and liabilities based on
the company s analysis of the factors giving rise to the difference. The
amortization of this difference, as appropriate, is included in  income from
equity affiliates.    The share of total
equity company revenues from sales to ExxonMobil consolidated companies was 16
percent, 19 percent and 18 percent in the years 2012, 2011 and 2010,
respectively.  

A list of significant equity companies as of
December 31, 2012, together with the Corporation s percentage ownership
interest, is detailed below:  

Percentage   

Percentage   

Ownership   

Ownership   

Interest   

Interest   

Upstream   

Downstream   

Aera Energy LLC  

48   

Chalmette
  Refining, LLC  

50   

BEB Erdgas und
  Erdoel GmbH   Co. KG  

50   

Fujian Refining
    Petrochemical Co. Ltd.  

25   

Cameroon Oil
  Transportation Company S.A.  

41   

Saudi Aramco
  Mobil Refinery Company Ltd.  

50   

Castle Peak
  Power Company Limited  

60   

TonenGeneral
  Sekiyu K.K.  

22   

Cross Timbers
  Energy, LLC  

50   

Golden Pass LNG
  Terminal LLC  

18   

Chemical   

Nederlandse
  Aardolie Maatschappij B.V.  

50   

Al-Jubail
  Petrochemical Company  

50   

Qatar Liquefied
  Gas Company Limited  

10   

Infineum
  Holdings B.V.  

50   

Qatar Liquefied
  Gas Company Limited (2)  

24   

Saudi Yanbu
  Petrochemical Co.  

50   

Ras Laffan
  Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited  

25   

Ras Laffan
  Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (II)  

31   

Ras Laffan
  Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (3)  

30   

South Hook LNG
  Terminal Company Limited  

24   

Tengizchevroil,
  LLP  

25   

Terminale GNL
  Adriatico S.r.l.  

71   

71       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

8. Investments, Advances and Long-Term Receivables   

9. Property, Plant and Equipment and
Asset Retirement Obligations    

In the
Upstream segment, depreciation is generally on a unit-of-production basis, so
depreciable life will vary by field. In the Downstream segment, investments in
refinery and lubes basestock manufacturing facilities are generally depreciated
on a straight-line basis over a 25-year life and service station buildings and
fixed improvements over a 20-year life. In the Chemical segment, investments in
process equipment are generally depreciated on a straight-line basis over a
20-year life.   

  Accumulated depreciation and depletion totaled $182,365
million at the end of 2012 and $179,331 million at the end of 2011. Interest
capitalized in 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $506 million, $593 million and $532
million, respectively.   

72       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Asset Retirement Obligations    

  The
Corporation incurs retirement obligations for certain assets. The fair values
of these obligations are recorded as liabilities on a discounted basis, which
is typically at the time the assets are installed. In the estimation of fair
value, the Corporation uses assumptions and judgments regarding such factors as
the existence of a legal obligation for an asset retirement obligation;
technical assessments of the assets; estimated amounts and timing of settlements;
discount rates; and inflation rates. Asset retirement obligations incurred in
the current period were Level 3 (unobservable inputs) fair value measurements.
The costs associated with these liabilities are capitalized as part of the
related assets and depreciated as the reserves are produced. Over time, the
liabilities are accreted for the change in their present value.   

  Asset retirement obligations for downstream and
chemical facilities generally become firm at the time the facilities are
permanently shut down and dismantled. These obligations may include the costs
of asset disposal and additional soil remediation. However, these sites have
indeterminate lives based on plans for continued operations and as such, the
fair value of the conditional legal obligations cannot be measured, since it is
impossible to estimate the future settlement dates of such obligations.   

  The following table summarizes the
activity in the liability for asset retirement obligations:   

73       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

10. Accounting for
Suspended Exploratory Well Costs    

  The
Corporation continues capitalization of exploratory well costs when the
well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a
producing well and the Corporation is making sufficient progress assessing
the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. The term
 project  as used in this report does not necessarily have the same meaning as
under SEC Rule 13q-1 relating to government payment reporting. For example, a
single project for purposes of the rule may encompass numerous properties,
agreements, investments, developments, phases, work efforts, activities, and
components, each of which we may also informally describe as a  project.   

  The following two tables provide details of the
changes in the balance of suspended exploratory well costs as well as an aging
summary of those costs.  

  Change
in capitalized suspended exploratory well costs:   

Period end capitalized suspended exploratory well
costs:   

Exploration
activity often involves drilling multiple wells, over a number of years, to
fully evaluate a project. The table below provides a numerical breakdown of the
number of projects with suspended exploratory well costs which had their first
capitalized well drilled in the preceding 12 months and those that have had
exploratory well costs capitalized for a period greater than 12 months.   

74       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Of the
45 projects that have exploratory well costs capitalized for a period greater
than 12 months as of December 31, 2012, 17 projects have drilling in the
preceding 12 months or exploratory activity planned in the next two years,
while the remaining 28 projects are those with completed exploratory activity
progressing toward development. The table below provides additional detail for
those 28 projects, which total $557 million.   

Years  

Dec. 31,  

Wells  

Country/Project  

2012   

Drilled  

Comment  

(millions of
  dollars)   

Angola  

-
  Perpetua-Zina-Acacia  

15   

2008 - 2009  

Oil field near
  Pazflor development, awaiting capacity in existing/planned  

infrastructure.  

Australia  

- East
  Pilchard  

10   

2001   

Gas field near
  Kipper/Tuna development, awaiting capacity in existing/planned  

infrastructure.  

- SE Longtom  

16   

2010   

Gas field near
  Tuna development, awaiting capacity in existing/planned infrastructure.  

Indonesia  

- Natuna  

118   

1981 - 1983  

Development
  activity under way, while continuing discussions with the government  

on contract
  terms pursuant to executed Heads of Agreement.  

Kazakhstan  

- Kairan  

53   

2004 - 2007  

Evaluating
  commercialization and field development alternatives, while continuing   

discussions
  with the government regarding the development plan.  

Malaysia  

- Besar  

18   

1992 - 2010  

Gas field off
  the east coast of Malaysia; progressing development plan.  

- Bindu  

2   

1995   

Awaiting
  capacity in existing/planned infrastructure.  

Nigeria  

- Bolia  

15   

2002 - 2006  

Evaluating
  development plan, while continuing discussions with the government  

regarding
  regional hub strategy.  

- Bosi  

79   

2002 - 2006  

Development
  activity under way, while continuing discussions with the government  

regarding
  development plan.  

- Bosi
  Central  

16   

2006   

Development
  activity under way, while continuing discussions with the government  

regarding
  development plan.  

- Pegi  

32   

2009   

Awaiting capacity
  in existing/planned infrastructure.  

- Usan South
  Strip  

16   

2011   

Evaluating
  development plans to tie into planned infrastructure.  

- Other (5
  projects)  

16   

2001 - 2002  

Evaluating and
  pursuing development of several additional discoveries.  

Norway  

- Gamma  

21   

2008 - 2009  

Evaluating
  development plan for tieback to existing production facilities.  

- H-North  

16   

2007   

Progressing
  development and commercialization plans.  

- Lavrans  

24   

1995 - 1999  

Development
  awaiting capacity in existing Kristin production facility; evaluating  

development
  concepts for phased ullage scenarios.  

- Other (5
  projects)  

23   

2008 - 2010  

Evaluating
  development plans, including potential for tieback to existing production  

facilities.  

Papua New
  Guinea  

- Juha  

28   

2007   

Working on
  development plans to tie into planned LNG facilities.  

United Kingdom  

- Phyllis  

8   

2004   

Evaluating
  development plan for tieback to existing production facilities.  

United States  

- Tip Top  

31   

2009   

Evaluating
  development concept and requisite facility upgrades.  

Total 2012 (28
  projects)  

557   

75       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

11. Leased Facilities    

  At
December 31, 2012, the Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries held noncancelable
operating charters and leases covering drilling equipment, tankers, service
stations and other properties with minimum undiscounted lease commitments
totaling $8,181 million as indicated in the table. Estimated related rental
income from noncancelable subleases is $111 million.   

Net rental cost under both cancelable and
noncancelable operating leases incurred during 2012, 2011 and 2010 were as
follows:   

12. Earnings Per
Share    

76       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

13. Financial
Instruments and Derivatives    

   Financial
Instruments.    The fair value of
financial instruments is determined by reference to observable market data and
other valuation techniques as appropriate. The only category of financial
instruments where the difference between fair value and recorded book value is
notable is long-term debt. The estimated fair value of total long-term debt,
including capitalized lease obligations, was $8.5 billion and $9.8 billion at
December 31, 2012, and 2011, respectively, as compared to recorded book values
of $7.9 billion and $9.3 billion at December 31, 2012, and 2011, respectively.  The
fair value of long-term debt by hierarchy level at December 31, 2012 is shown
below:  

The
fair value hierarchy for long-term debt is primarily Level 1 and represents
quoted prices in active markets. Level 2 includes debt whose fair value is
based upon a publicly available index.  The Level 3 amount is primarily
capitalized leases whose value is typically determined through the use of
present value and specific contract terms.  

Derivative
Instruments.    The Corporation s size,
strong capital structure, geographic diversity and the complementary nature of
the Upstream, Downstream and Chemical businesses reduce the Corporation s
enterprise-wide risk from changes in interest rates, currency rates and
commodity prices. As a result, the Corporation makes limited use of derivatives
to mitigate the impact of such changes. The Corporation does not engage in
speculative derivative activities or derivative trading activities nor does it
use derivatives with leveraged features. When the Corporation does enter into
derivative transactions, it is to offset exposures associated with interest
rates, foreign currency exchange rates and hydrocarbon prices that arise from
existing assets, liabilities and forecasted transactions.    

  The estimated fair value of derivative instruments
outstanding and recorded on the balance sheet was a net asset of $2 million at
year-end 2012 and a net liability of $3 million at year-end 2011. Assets and
liabilities associated with derivatives are usually recorded either in  Other
current assets  or  Accounts payable and accrued liabilities.    

  The Corporation s fair value measurement of its
derivative instruments use either Level 1 (observable quoted prices on active
exchanges) or Level 2 (derivatives that are determined by either market prices
on an active market for similar assets or by prices quoted by a broker or other
market-corroborated prices) inputs.   

  The Corporation recognized a before-tax gain or (loss)
related to derivative instruments of $(23) million, $131 million and $221 million
during 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Income statement effects associated
with derivatives are usually recorded either in  Sales and other operating revenue 
or  Crude oil and product purchases.     

  The Corporation believes there are no material market
or credit risks to the Corporation s financial position, results of operations
or liquidity as a result of the derivative activities described above.   

77       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

14. Long-Term Debt    

  At
December 31, 2012, long-term debt consisted of $7,325 million due
in U.S. dollars and $603 million representing the U.S. dollar equivalent
at year-end exchange rates of amounts payable in foreign currencies. These
amounts exclude that portion of long-term debt, totaling $1,025 million, which
matures within one year and is included in current liabilities. The amounts of
long-term debt maturing in each of the four years after December 31, 2013,
in millions of dollars, are: 2014   $907; 2015   $710;   2016   $454;
and 2017   $814.  At December 31, 2012, the Corporation s unused long-term
credit lines were not material.   

  Summarized long-term debt at year-end 2012 and 2011
are shown in the table below:   

(1)   Includes
premiums of $326 million.    

   (2)   Average effective interest rate
of 0.2% in 2011.    

   (3)   Average effective interest rate
of 0.5% in 2012 and 0.3% in 2011.    

   (4)   Average effective interest rate
of 4.6% in 2012 and 4.2% in 2011.    

   (5)   Average effective interest rate
of 3.5% in 2012 and 3.2% in 2011.    

   (6)   Average effective interest rate
of 0.1% in 2012 and 0.1% in 2011.    

   (7)   Average effective interest rate
of 2.7% in 2012 and 4.8% in 2011.   

   (8)   Average imputed interest rate
of 7.6% in 2012 and 8.5% in 2011.     

78       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

15. Incentive Program    

  The 2003 Incentive Program provides for grants of
stock options, stock appreciation rights (SARs), restricted stock and other
forms of award. Awards may be granted to eligible employees of the Corporation
and those affiliates at least 50 percent owned. Outstanding awards are subject
to certain forfeiture provisions contained in the program or award instrument.
Options and SARs may be granted at prices not less than 100 percent of market
value on the date of grant and have a maximum life of 10 years. The maximum
number of shares of stock that may be issued under the 2003 Incentive Program
is 220 million. Awards that are forfeited, expire or are settled in cash, do
not count against this maximum limit. The 2003 Incentive Program does not have
a specified term. New awards may be made until the available shares are
depleted, unless the Board terminates the plan early. At the end of 2012,
remaining shares available for award under the 2003 Incentive Program were 124,736
thousand.   

   Restricted
Stock.    Awards totaling 10,017 thousand,
10,533 thousand, and 10,648 thousand (excluding XTO merger-related grants) of
restricted (nonvested) common stock and restricted (nonvested) common stock
units were granted in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Compensation expense
for these awards is based on the price of the stock at the date of grant and is
recognized in income over the requisite service period. These shares are issued
to employees from treasury stock. The units that are settled in cash are
recorded as liabilities and their changes in fair value are recognized over the
vesting period. During the applicable restricted periods, the shares may not be
sold or transferred and are subject to forfeiture. The majority of the awards
have graded vesting periods, with 50 percent of the shares in each award
vesting after three years and the remaining 50 percent vesting after seven
years. Awards granted to a small number of senior executives have vesting
periods of five years for 50 percent of the award and of 10 years or
retirement, whichever occurs later, for the remaining 50 percent of the award.   

  Additionally, in 2010 long-term incentive awards
totaling 4,206 thousand shares of restricted (nonvested) common stock, with a
value of $250 million, were granted in association with the XTO merger. The
majority of these awards vest over periods of up to three years after the
initial grant.   

  The Corporation has purchased shares in the open
market and through negotiated transactions to offset shares issued in
conjunction with benefit plans and programs. Purchases may be discontinued at
any time without prior notice.  

  The following tables summarize information about
restricted stock and restricted stock units for the year ended
December 31, 2012.   

As of
December 31, 2012, there was $2,179 million of unrecognized compensation
cost related to the nonvested restricted awards. This cost is expected to
be recognized over a weighted-average period of 4.5 years. The
compensation cost charged against income for the restricted stock and
restricted units was $854 million, $793 million and $801 million for 2012,
2011 and 2010, respectively. The income tax benefit recognized in income
related to this compensation expense was $79 million, $73 million and
$81 million for the same periods, respectively. The fair value of shares and
units vested in 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $926 million, $801 million and $718
million, respectively. Cash payments of $66 million, $46 million and $42
million for vested restricted stock units settled in cash were made in 2012,
2011 and 2010, respectively.  

79       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Stock Options.    The
Corporation has not granted any stock options under the 2003 Incentive Program
and all stock options granted under the prior program were exercised by the end
of 2011. In 2010, the Corporation granted 12,393 thousand of converted XTO
stock options with a grant-date fair value of $182 million as a result of the
XTO merger. These stock options generally vest and become exercisable ratably
over a three-year period, and may include a provision for accelerated vesting
when the common stock price reaches specified levels. Some stock option
tranches vest only when the common stock price reaches specified levels. There
were 2,355 thousand stock options, with an average exercise price of $78.60,
outstanding at December 31, 2012.  

  Cash received from stock option exercises was $193
million, $924 million and $1,043 million for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
The cash tax benefit realized for the options exercised was $54 million, $221
million and $89 million for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The aggregate
intrinsic value of stock options exercised in 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $79
million, $986 million and $539 million, respectively.  

80       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

16. Litigation and Other
Contingencies    

   Litigation.
   A variety of claims have been made
against ExxonMobil and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries in a number of
pending lawsuits. Management has regular litigation reviews, including updates
from corporate and outside counsel, to assess the need for accounting
recognition or disclosure of these contingencies. The Corporation accrues an
undiscounted liability for those contingencies where the incurrence of a loss
is probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If a range of amounts
can be reasonably estimated and no amount within the range is a better estimate
than any other amount, then the minimum of the range is accrued. The
Corporation does not record liabilities when the likelihood that the liability
has been incurred is probable but the amount cannot be reasonably estimated or
when the liability is believed to be only reasonably possible or remote. For
contingencies where an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible and which are
significant, the Corporation discloses the nature of the contingency and, where
feasible, an estimate of the possible loss. For purposes of our contingency
disclosures,  significant  includes material matters as well as other matters
which management believes should be disclosed. ExxonMobil will continue to
defend itself vigorously in these matters. Based on a consideration of all
relevant facts and circumstances, the Corporation does not believe the ultimate
outcome of any currently pending lawsuit against ExxonMobil will have a material
adverse effect upon the Corporation s operations, financial condition, or
financial statements taken as a whole.  

  On June 30, 2011, a state district court jury in
Baltimore County, Maryland returned a verdict against Exxon Mobil Corporation
in    Allison, et al v. Exxon Mobil Corporation,    a case involving an
accidental 26,000 gallon gasoline leak at a suburban Baltimore service station.
The verdict included approximately $497 million in compensatory damages and
approximately $1.0 billion in punitive damages in a finding that ExxonMobil
fraudulently misled the plaintiff-residents about the events leading up to the
leak, the leak s discovery, and the nature and extent of any groundwater
contamination. ExxonMobil believes the verdict is not justified by the evidence
and that the amount of the compensatory award is grossly excessive and the
imposition of punitive damages is improper and unconstitutional. The trial
court denied a post-trial motion that ExxonMobil filed to overturn the punitive
damages verdict and entered a final judgment in the amount of $1,488 million.
ExxonMobil appealed the verdict and judgment. In a prior trial involving the
same leak and different plaintiffs, the jury awarded compensatory damages but rejected
the plaintiffs  punitive damage claims. Those plaintiffs did not appeal the
jury s denial of punitive damages. On
February 9, 2012, the Maryland Court of Special Appeals reversed in part
and affirmed in part the trial court's decision on compensatory damages in that
case. The Maryland Court of Appeals granted writs of certiorari to both parties
in response to their separate petitions seeking reversals of portions of the
Court of Special Appeals' decision. The appeals in both of these cases were
consolidated before the Maryland Court of Appeals and arguments were held on
November 5, 2012. On February 26, 2013, the Maryland Court of Appeals issued
its opinion in the consolidated appeal. The court unanimously reversed the
fraud and punitive damages judgment, and also reversed a majority of the compensatory
damage claims. The court remanded a limited number of claims related to alleged
property damage for a new trial.   

   Other
Contingencies.    The Corporation and
certain of its consolidated subsidiaries were contingently liable at December
31, 2012, for guarantees relating to notes, loans and performance under
contracts. Where guarantees for environmental remediation and other similar
matters do not include a stated cap, the amounts reflect management s estimate
of the maximum potential exposure.   

Additionally, the Corporation and its
affiliates have numerous long-term sales and purchase commitments in their
various business activities, all of which are expected to be fulfilled with no
adverse consequences material to the Corporation s operations or financial
condition. Unconditional purchase obligations as defined by accounting
standards are those long-term commitments that are noncancelable or cancelable
only under certain conditions, and that third parties have used to secure
financing for the facilities that will provide the contracted goods or
services.  

81       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

(1)   Undiscounted obligations of $1,127
million mainly pertain to pipeline throughput agreements and include $584
million of obligations to equity companies. The present value of these
commitments, which excludes imputed interest of $198 million, totaled $929
million.    

In
accordance with a nationalization decree issued by Venezuela s president in
February 2007, by May 1, 2007, a subsidiary of the Venezuelan National Oil
Company (PdVSA) assumed the operatorship of the Cerro Negro Heavy Oil Project.
This Project had been operated and owned by ExxonMobil affiliates holding a
41.67 percent ownership interest in the Project. The decree also required
conversion of the Cerro Negro Project into a  mixed enterprise  and an increase
in PdVSA s or one of its affiliate s ownership interest in the Project, with
the stipulation that if ExxonMobil refused to accept the terms for the
formation of the mixed enterprise within a specified period of time, the
government would  directly assume the activities  carried out by the joint
venture. ExxonMobil refused to accede to the terms proffered by the government,
and on June 27, 2007, the government expropriated ExxonMobil s 41.67 percent
interest in the Cerro Negro Project. ExxonMobil s remaining net book investment
in Cerro Negro producing assets is about $750 million.   

  On September 6, 2007, affiliates of ExxonMobil filed a
Request for Arbitration with the International Centre for Settlement of
Investment Disputes (ICSID) invoking ICSID jurisdiction under Venezuela s
Investment Law and the Netherlands-Venezuela Bilateral Investment Treaty. The
ICSID Tribunal issued a decision on June 10, 2010, finding that it had
jurisdiction to proceed on the basis of the Netherlands-Venezuela Bilateral
Investment Treaty. The ICSID arbitration proceeding is continuing and a hearing
on the merits was held in February 2012. At this time, the net impact of these
matters on the Corporation s consolidated financial results cannot be
reasonably estimated. Regardless, the Corporation does not expect the
resolution to have a material effect upon the Corporation s operations or
financial condition.   

  An affiliate of ExxonMobil is one of the Contractors
under a Production Sharing Contract (PSC) with the Nigerian National Petroleum
Corporation (NNPC) covering the Erha block located in the offshore waters of
Nigeria. ExxonMobil s affiliate is the operator of the block and owns a
56.25 percent interest under the PSC. The Contractors are in dispute with
NNPC regarding NNPC s lifting of crude oil in excess of its entitlement under
the terms of the PSC. In accordance with the terms of the PSC, the
Contractors initiated arbitration in Abuja, Nigeria, under the Nigerian
Arbitration and Conciliation Act. On October 24, 2011, a three-member
arbitral Tribunal issued an award upholding the Contractors  position in all
material respects and awarding damages to the Contractors jointly in an amount
of approximately $1.8 billion plus $234 million in accrued interest. The
Contractors petitioned a Nigerian federal court for enforcement of the award,
and NNPC petitioned the same court to have the award set aside.   On May 22, 2012, the court set aside the
award.  The Contractors have appealed that judgment.   At this time, the net impact of this matter on
the Corporation s consolidated financial results cannot be reasonably
estimated. However, regardless of the outcome of enforcement proceedings,
the Corporation does not expect the proceedings to have a material effect upon
the Corporation s operations or financial condition.  

82       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

17. Pension and Other
Postretirement Benefits    

  The
benefit obligations and plan assets associated with the Corporation s principal
benefit plans are measured on December 31.   

(1)         Benefit
payments for funded and unfunded plans.   

   (2)         For
2012 and 2011, other postretirement benefits paid are net of $23 million and $29
million of Medicare subsidy receipts, respectively.   

For
U.S. plans, the discount rate is determined by constructing a portfolio of
high-quality, noncallable bonds with cash flows that match estimated outflows
for benefit payments. For major non-U.S. plans, the discount rate is
determined by using bond portfolios with an average maturity approximating that
of the liabilities or spot yield curves, both of which are constructed
using high-quality, local-currency-denominated bonds.   

  The measurement of the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation assumes an initial health care cost trend
rate of 5.0 percent that declines to 4.5 percent by 2015. A
one-percentage-point increase in the health care cost trend rate would
increase service and interest cost by $74 million and the postretirement
benefit obligation by $871 million. A one-percentage-point decrease in the
health care cost trend rate would decrease service and interest cost by $57
million and the postretirement benefit obligation by $700 million.  

(1)   Benefit payments for funded
plans.    

83       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

The
funding levels of all qualified pension plans are in compliance
with standards set by applicable law or regulation. As shown in the table
below, certain smaller U.S. pension plans and a number of non-U.S. pension
plans are not funded because local tax conventions and regulatory
practices do not encourage funding of these plans. All defined benefit pension
obligations, regardless of the funding status of the underlying plans, are
fully supported by the financial strength of the Corporation or the
respective sponsoring affiliate.   

The
authoritative guidance for defined benefit pension and other postretirement
plans requires an employer to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of
a defined benefit postretirement plan as an asset or liability in its statement
of financial position and to recognize changes in that funded status in the
year in which the changes occur through other comprehensive income.   

(1)   Fair value of assets less
benefit obligation shown on the preceding page.   

84       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

The long-term expected rate of return on
funded assets shown below is established for each benefit plan by developing a
forward-looking, long-term return assumption for each asset class, taking into
account factors such as the expected real return for the specific asset
class and inflation. A single, long-term rate of return is then calculated as
the weighted average of the target asset allocation percentages and the
long-term return assumption for each asset class.  

Costs
for defined contribution plans were $382 million, $378 million and $347 million
in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

85       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

A summary of the change in
accumulated other comprehensive income is shown in the table below:     

The
Corporation s investment strategy for benefit plan assets reflects a long-term
view, a careful assessment of the risks inherent in various asset classes and
broad diversification to reduce the risk of the portfolio. The benefit plan
assets are primarily invested in passive equity and fixed income index
funds to diversify risk while minimizing costs. The equity funds hold
ExxonMobil stock only to the extent necessary to replicate the relevant equity
index. The fixed income funds are largely invested in high-quality corporate
and government debt securities.   

  Studies are periodically conducted to establish the
preferred target asset allocation percentages. The target asset allocation for
the U.S. benefit plans is 50 percent equity securities and 50 percent debt
securities. The target asset allocation for the non-U.S. plans in aggregate is 50
percent equity securities and 50 percent debt securities. The equity targets
for the U.S. and non-U.S. plans include an allocation to private equity
partnerships that primarily focus on early-stage venture capital of 5 percent
and 3 percent, respectively.   

  The fair value measurement levels are accounting terms
that refer to different methods of valuing assets. The terms do not represent
the relative risk or credit quality of an investment.   

86       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

The 2012 fair value of the benefit plan assets, including
the level within the fair value hierarchy, is shown in the tables below:  

(1)   For U.S. and non-U.S. equity
securities held in the form of fund units that are redeemable at the
measurement date, the unit value is treated as a Level 2 input. The fair value
of the securities owned by the funds is based on observable quoted prices on
active exchanges, which are Level 1 inputs.   

   (2)   For non-U.S. equity securities
held in separate accounts, fair value is based on observable quoted prices on
active exchanges.    

   (3)   For private equity, fair value
is generally established by using revenue or earnings multiples or other
relevant market data including Initial Public Offerings.    

   (4)   For corporate, government and
asset-backed debt securities, fair value is based on observable inputs of
comparable market transactions.    

   (5)   For corporate and government
debt securities that are traded on active exchanges, fair value is based on
observable quoted prices.    

   (6)   For private mortgages, fair
value is estimated to equal the principal outstanding at the measurement date.    

   (7)   For real estate funds, fair
value is based on appraised values developed using comparable market
transactions.    

   (8)   For cash balances held in the
form of short-term fund units that are redeemable at the measurement date, the
fair value is treated as a Level 2 input.    

   (9)   For cash balances that are
subject to withdrawal penalties or other adjustments, the fair value is treated
as a Level 2 input.    

87       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

(1)        
    For U.S. and non-U.S. equity
securities held in the form of fund units that are redeemable at the
measurement date, the unit value is treated as a Level 2 input. The fair value
of the securities owned by the funds is based on observable quoted prices on
active exchanges, which are Level 1 inputs.   

   (2)        
    For private equity, fair
value is generally established by using revenue or earnings multiples or other
relevant market data including Initial Public Offerings.    

   (3)        
    For corporate, government
and asset-backed debt securities, fair value is based on observable inputs of
comparable market transactions.    

The change in the fair value in 2012 of Level 3 assets
that use significant unobservable inputs to measure fair value is shown in the
table below:   

88       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

The 2011 fair value of the benefit plan assets,
including the level within the fair value hierarchy, is shown in the tables
below:   

(1)   For U.S.
and non-U.S. equity securities held in the form of fund units that are
redeemable at the measurement date, the unit value is treated as a Level 2
input. The fair value of the securities owned by the funds is based on
observable quoted prices on active exchanges, which are Level 1 inputs.    

   (2)   For non-U.S. equity securities
held in separate accounts, fair value is based on observable quoted prices on
active exchanges.    

   (3)   For private equity, fair value
is generally established by using revenue or earnings multiples or other
relevant market data including Initial Public Offerings.    

   (4)   For corporate, government and
asset-backed debt securities, fair value is based on observable inputs of
comparable market transactions.    

   (5)   For corporate and government
debt securities that are traded on active exchanges, fair value is based on
observable quoted prices.    

   (6)   For private mortgages, fair
value is estimated to equal the principal outstanding at the measurement date.    

   (7)   For real estate funds, fair
value is based on appraised values developed using comparable market
transactions.    

   (8)   For cash balances held in the
form of short-term fund units that are redeemable at the measurement date, the
fair value is treated as a Level 2 input.   

   (9)   For cash balances that are
subject to withdrawal penalties or other adjustments, the fair value is treated
as a Level 2 input.    

89       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

(1)   For U.S.
and non-U.S. equity securities held in the form of fund units that are
redeemable at the measurement date, the unit value is treated as a Level 2
input. The fair value of the securities owned by the funds is based on
observable quoted prices on active exchanges, which are Level 1 inputs.    

   (2)   For private equity, fair value
is generally established by using revenue or earnings multiples or other
relevant market data including Initial Public Offerings.    

   (3)   For corporate, government and
asset-backed debt securities, fair value is based on observable inputs of
comparable market transactions.      

The change in the fair value in 2011 of Level 3 assets
that use significant unobservable inputs to measure fair value is shown in the
table below:   

90       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

A summary of pension plans with an accumulated benefit
obligation in excess of plan assets is shown in the table below:   

(1)   The Corporation amortizes the
net balance of actuarial losses/(gains) as a component of net periodic benefit
cost over the average remaining service period of active plan participants.    

   (2)   The Corporation amortizes prior
service cost on a straight-line basis as permitted under authoritative guidance
for defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans.    

18.
Disclosures about Segments and Related Information    

  The
Upstream, Downstream and Chemical functions best define the operating segments
of the business that are reported separately. The factors used to identify
these reportable segments are based on the nature of the operations that are
undertaken by each segment. The Upstream segment is organized and operates to
explore for and produce crude oil and natural gas. The Downstream segment is
organized and operates to manufacture and sell petroleum products. The Chemical
segment is organized and operates to manufacture and sell petrochemicals. These
segments are broadly understood across the petroleum and petrochemical
industries.   

  These functions have been defined as the operating
segments of the Corporation because they are the segments (1) that engage
in business activities from which revenues are earned and expenses are
incurred; (2) whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the
Corporation s chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources
to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance; and (3) for
which discrete financial information is available.   

  Earnings after income tax include transfers at
estimated market prices.   

91       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

In corporate and financing
activities, interest revenue relates to interest earned on cash deposits and
marketable securities. Interest expense includes non-debt-related interest
expense of $202 million, $165 million and $41 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010,
respectively.   

(1)  Sales and
other operating revenue includes sales-based taxes of $32,409 million for 2012,
$33,503 million for 2011 and $28,547 million for 2010. See Note 1, Summary of
Accounting Policies.      

92       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

(1)  Sales and other operating
revenue includes sales-based taxes of $32,409 million for 2012, $33,503 million
for 2011 and $28,547 million for 2010. See Note 1, Summary of Accounting
Policies.    

93       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

19. Income, Sales-Based and Other Taxes    

All
other taxes and duties include taxes reported in production and manufacturing
and selling, general and administrative (SG A) expenses. The above
provisions for deferred income taxes include net charges of $244 million in
2012 and $175 million in 2010 and a net credit of $330 million in 2011 for the
effect of changes in tax laws and rates.   

The reconciliation between income tax expense and a
theoretical U.S. tax computed by applying a rate of 35 percent for 2012,
2011 and 2010 is as follows:   

94       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Deferred
income taxes reflect the impact of temporary differences between the amount of
assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting purposes and such
amounts recognized for tax purposes.   

  Deferred tax liabilities/(assets) are
comprised of the following at December 31:   

Deferred
income tax (assets) and liabilities are included in the balance sheet as shown
below. Deferred income tax (assets) and liabilities are classified as current
or long term consistent with the classification of the related temporary
difference   separately by tax jurisdiction.   

The
Corporation had $43 billion of indefinitely reinvested, undistributed
earnings from subsidiary companies outside the U.S. Unrecognized deferred taxes
on remittance of these funds are not expected to be material.   

95       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Unrecognized Tax Benefits.    The Corporation is subject to income taxation in many
jurisdictions around the world. Unrecognized tax benefits reflect the
difference between positions taken or expected to be taken on income tax
returns and the amounts recognized in the financial statements. Resolution of
the related tax positions through negotiations with the relevant tax
authorities or through litigation will take many years to complete. It is
difficult to predict the timing of resolution for tax positions since such
timing is not entirely within the control of the Corporation. It is reasonably
possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits could increase by up
to 25 percent in the next 12 months, with no material impact on near-term
earnings. Given the long time periods involved in resolving tax positions, the
Corporation does not expect that the recognition of unrecognized tax benefits
will have a material impact on the Corporation s effective income tax rate in
any given year.   

  The following table summarizes the movement in
unrecognized tax benefits.   

The
additions and reductions in unrecognized tax benefits shown above include
effects related to net income and equity, and timing differences for which the
ultimate deductibility is highly certain but for which there is uncertainty
about the timing of such deductibility. The 2012, 2011 and 2010 changes in
unrecognized tax benefits did not have a material effect on the Corporation s
net income or cash flow.   

  The following table summarizes the tax
years that remain subject to examination by major tax jurisdiction:   

The
Corporation classifies interest on income tax-related balances as interest
expense or interest income and classifies tax-related penalties as operating
expense.   

  The Corporation incurred $46 million and $62 million in
interest expense on income tax reserves in 2012 and 2011, respectively. For
2010, interest expense was a credit of $39 million, reflecting the effect of
credits from the net favorable resolution of prior year tax positions. The
related interest payable balances were $385 million and $662 million at December 31,
2012, and 2011, respectively.   

96       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

20.  Japan
Restructuring   

  On June 1, 2012, the Corporation
completed the restructuring of its Downstream and Chemical holdings in
Japan. Under the restructuring, TonenGeneral
Sekiyu K. K. (TG), a consolidated subsidiary owned 50 percent by
the Corporation, purchased for $3.9 billion the Corporation s shares of a
wholly-owned affiliate in Japan, EMG Marketing Godo Kaisha (previously known as
ExxonMobil Yugen Kaisha), which resulted in TG acquiring approximately 200 million
of its shares owned by the Corporation along with other assets. As a result of
the restructuring, the Corporation s effective ownership of TG was reduced to
approximately 22 percent and a net gain of $6.5 billion was recognized. 
The gain is included in  Other income  partially offset by amounts included in
 Income taxes  and  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests.   

  The gain includes
$1.9 billion of the Corporation s share of other comprehensive income recycled
into earnings (see note 1 below).  The gain also includes remeasurement of TG s
shares that the Corporation continues to own to $0.7 billion, based on TG s
share price on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The Corporation accounts for its
remaining investment using the equity method.  

  Summarized balance
sheet for the Japan entities subject to the restructuring follows:   

(1)        
    The
accumulated other comprehensive income associated with the Japan restructuring
was recycled into earnings. At June 1, 2012,  ExxonMobil s share of
accumulated other comprehensive income was a benefit of $1.9         billion, including $2.5         billion
related to cumulative translation adjustments offset by $0.6 billion related to
postretirement benefits reserves adjustments.   

97       

SUPPLEMENTAL    

    INFORMATION          ON          OIL          AND          GAS          EXPLORATION          AND          PRODUCTION          ACTIVITIES          (unaudited)    

The results of operations for producing activities
shown below do not include earnings from other activities that ExxonMobil
includes in the Upstream function, such as oil and gas transportation
operations, LNG liquefaction and transportation operations, coal and power
operations, technical service agreements, other nonoperating activities and
adjustments for noncontrolling interests. These excluded amounts for both
consolidated and equity companies totaled $2,832 million in 2012, $2,600
million in 2011, and $249 million in 2010. Oil sands mining operations are
included in the results of operations in accordance with Securities and
Exchange Commission and Financial Accounting Standards Board rules.   

98       

99       

Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Costs    

  The amounts shown for net capitalized costs of consolidated
subsidiaries are $10,643 million less at year-end 2012 and $6,651 million less
at year-end 2011 than the amounts reported as investments in property, plant
and equipment for the Upstream in Note 9. This is due to the exclusion
from capitalized costs of certain transportation and research assets and assets
relating to LNG operations. Assets related to oil sands and oil shale
mining operations have been included in the capitalized costs for 2012 and 2011
in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board rules.  

100       

Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Costs
(continued)    

  The
amounts reported as costs incurred include both capitalized costs and costs charged
to expense during the year. Costs incurred also include new asset retirement
obligations established in the current year, as well as increases or decreases
to the asset retirement obligation resulting from changes in cost estimates or
abandonment date. Total consolidated costs incurred in 2012 were $31,146
million, up $392 million from 2011, due primarily to higher exploration and
development costs partially offset by lower property acquisition costs. 2011
costs were $30,754 million, down $40,058 million from 2010, due primarily to
the absence of the acquisition of XTO Energy Inc. Total equity company costs
incurred in 2012 were $1,404 million, up $178 million from 2011, due primarily
to higher development costs.   

101       

Oil and Gas Reserves    

  The following information describes changes during the
years and balances of proved oil and gas reserves at year-end 2010, 2011, and
2012.   

  The definitions used are in accordance with the
Securities and Exchange Commission s Rule 4-10 (a) of Regulation S-X.   

  Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities of
oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be
estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible   from a
given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic
conditions, operating methods and government regulations   prior to the time at
which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence
indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. In some cases, substantial new investments
in additional wells and related facilities will be required to recover these
proved reserves.   

  In accordance with the Securities and Exchange
Commission s rules, the year-end reserves volumes as well as the reserves
change categories shown in the following tables were calculated using average
prices during the 12-month period prior to the ending date of the period
covered by the report, determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the
first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period. These reserves
quantities are also used in calculating unit-of-production depreciation rates
and in calculating the standardized measure of discounted net cash flow.   

  Revisions can include upward or downward changes in
previously estimated volumes of proved reserves for existing fields due to the
evaluation or re-evaluation of (1) already available geologic, reservoir
or production data, (2) new geologic, reservoir or production data or
(3) changes in average prices and year-end costs that are used in the
estimation of reserves. This category can also include significant changes in
either development strategy or production equipment/facility capacity.   

  Proved reserves include 100 percent of each
majority-owned affiliate s participation in proved reserves and ExxonMobil s
ownership percentage of the proved reserves of equity companies, but exclude
royalties and quantities due others. Gas reserves exclude the gaseous
equivalent of liquids expected to be removed from the gas on leases, at field
facilities and at gas processing plants. These liquids are included in net
proved reserves of crude oil and natural gas liquids.   

  In the proved reserves tables, consolidated reserves
and equity company reserves are reported separately. However, the Corporation
does not view equity company reserves any differently than those from
consolidated companies.   

  Reserves reported under production sharing and other
nonconcessionary agreements are based on the economic interest as defined by
the specific fiscal terms in the agreement. The production and reserves that we
report for these types of arrangements typically vary inversely with oil and
gas price changes. As oil and gas prices increase, the cash flow and value
received by the company increase; however, the production volumes and reserves
required to achieve this value will typically be lower because of the higher
prices. When prices decrease, the opposite effect generally occurs. The
percentage of total liquids and natural gas proved reserves (consolidated
subsidiaries plus equity companies) at year-end 2012 that were associated with
production sharing contract arrangements was 12 percent of liquids, 8 percent
of natural gas and 10 percent on an oil-equivalent basis (gas converted to
oil-equivalent at 6 billion cubic feet = 1 million barrels).   

  Net proved developed reserves are those volumes that
are expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and
operating methods or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively
minor compared to the cost of a new well. Net proved undeveloped reserves are
those volumes that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled
acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is
required for recompletion.   

  Crude oil and natural gas liquids and natural gas
production quantities shown are the net volumes withdrawn from ExxonMobil s oil
and gas reserves. The natural gas quantities differ from the quantities of gas
delivered for sale by the producing function as reported in the Operating
Summary due to volumes consumed or flared and inventory changes.   

  In accordance with the Securities and Exchange
Commission s rules, bitumen extracted through mining activities and
hydrocarbons from other non-traditional resources are reported as oil and gas
reserves beginning in 2009.   

  The rules in 2009 adopted a reliable technology
definition that permits reserves to be added based on technologies that have
been field tested and have been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain
results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated.   

  The changes between 2011 year-end proved reserves and
2012 year-end proved reserves reflect the extensions and discoveries in North
America.  

102       

103       

(1)   Includes total proved reserves
attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 10 million barrels in 2011 and 9
million barrels in 2012, as well as proved developed reserves of 10 million
barrels in 2011 and 9 million barrels in 2012, in which there is a 30.4 percent
noncontrolling interest.    

104       

(1)   Includes total proved reserves
attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 57 million barrels in 2010, 55 million
barrels in 2011 and 53 million barrels in 2012, as well as proved developed
reserves of 56 million barrels in 2010, 55 million barrels in 2011 and 52
million barrels in 2012, and in addition, proved undeveloped reserves of 1
million barrels in both 2010 and 2012, in which there is a 30.4 percent
noncontrolling interest.    

   (2)   Includes total proved reserves
attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 1,715 million barrels in 2010, 2,413
million barrels in 2011 and 2,841 million barrels in 2012, as well as proved
developed reserves of 519 million barrels in 2010, 519 million barrels in 2011
and 543 million barrels in 2012, and in addition, proved undeveloped reserves
of 1,196 million barrels in 2010, 1,894 million barrels in 2011 and 2,298
million barrels in 2012, in which there is a 30.4 percent noncontrolling
interest.    

   (3)   Includes total proved reserves
attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 681 million barrels in 2010, 653
million barrels in 2011 and 599 million barrels in 2012, as well as proved
developed reserves of 681 million barrels in 2010, 653 million barrels in 2011
and 599 million barrels in 2012, in which there is a 30.4 percent
noncontrolling interest.    

   (4)   See previous page for natural
gas liquids proved reserves attributable to consolidated subsidiaries and
equity companies. For additional information on natural gas liquids proved
reserves see Item 2. Properties in ExxonMobil s 2012 Form 10-K.    

105       

(See footnotes
on next page)    

106       

(1)   Includes total proved reserves
attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 576 billion cubic feet in 2010, 422
billion cubic feet in 2011 and 488 billion cubic feet in 2012, as well as
proved developed reserves of 507 billion cubic feet in 2010, 360 billion cubic
feet in 2011 and 374 billion cubic feet in 2012, and in addition, proved
undeveloped reserves of 69 billion cubic feet in 2010, 62 billion cubic feet in
2011 and 114 billion cubic feet in 2012, in which there is a 30.4 percent
noncontrolling interest.    

   (2)   Natural gas is converted to
oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels.    

107       

(See footnotes
on previous page)    

108       

Standardized Measure of Discounted
Future Cash Flows    

  As required by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board, the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows
is computed by applying first-day-of-the-month average prices,
year-end costs and legislated tax rates and a discount factor of 10
percent to net proved reserves. The standardized measure includes costs
for future dismantlement, abandonment and rehabilitation obligations.
The Corporation believes the standardized measure does not provide
a reliable estimate of the Corporation s expected future cash flows to be
obtained from the development and production of its oil and gas properties or
of the value of its proved oil and gas reserves. The standardized measure is
prepared on the basis of certain prescribed assumptions including
first-day-of-the-month average prices, which represent discrete points in time
and therefore may cause significant variability in cash flows from year to year
as prices change.   

(1)   Includes discounted future net
cash flows attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of $19,834 million in 2010, in
which there is a 30.4 percent noncontrolling interest.    

109       

(1)   Includes discounted future net
cash flows attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of $27,568 million in 2011 and
$24,690 million in 2012, in which there is a 30.4 percent noncontrolling
interest.    

110       

Change in
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Oil
and Gas Reserves    

111       

Change in
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Oil
and Gas Reserves    

112       

OPERATING

SUMMARY (unaudited)      

Operating statistics include 100 percent of operations
of majority-owned subsidiaries; for other companies, crude production, gas,
petroleum product and chemical prime product sales include ExxonMobil s
ownership percentage and refining throughput includes quantities processed for
ExxonMobil. Net production excludes royalties and quantities due others when
produced, whether payment is made in kind or cash.    

   (1)   Gas converted to oil-equivalent
at 6 million cubic feet = 1 thousand barrels.    

   (2)   Petroleum product sales data
reported net of purchases/sales contracts with the same counterparty.    

113       

SIGNATURES    

   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.    

EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION  

By:  

/s/    REX W.
  TILLERSON          

(Rex W. Tillerson,  
    Chairman of the Board)  

Dated February 27, 2013   

POWER
OF ATTORNEY    

   Each person whose signature appears below constitutes
and appoints Randall M. Ebner, Leonard M. Fox and Catherine C. Shae and each of
them, his or her true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power
of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her name,
place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits
thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each
of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and
thing requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes
as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all
that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them, or their or his or her
substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue
hereof.    

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated and on
February 27, 2013.    

/s/    REX
  W. TILLERSON  

(Rex W. Tillerson)  

Chairman of the Board  
    (Principal Executive Officer)  

/s/    MICHAEL
  J. BOSKIN  

(Michael J. Boskin)  

Director  

/s/    PETER
  BRABECK-LETMATHE  

(Peter Brabeck-Letmathe)  

Director  

/s/    URSULA
  M. BURNS  

(Ursula M. Burns)  

Director  

/s/    LARRY
  R. FAULKNER  

(Larry R. Faulkner)  

Director  

114       

/s/    JAY
  S. FISHMAN  

(Jay S. Fishman)  

Director  

/s/    HENRIETTA
  H. FORE  

(Henrietta H. Fore)  

Director  

/s/    KENNETH
  C. FRAZIER  

(Kenneth C.
  Frazier)  

Director  

/s/    WILLIAM
  W. GEORGE  

(William W. George)  

Director  

/s/    SAMUEL
  J. PALMISANO  

(Samuel J.
  Palmisano)  

Director  

/s/    STEVEN
  S REINEMUND  

(Steven S
  Reinemund)  

Director  

/s/    EDWARD
  E. WHITACRE, JR.  

(Edward E.
  Whitacre, Jr.)  

Director  

/s/    ANDREW
  P. SWIGER  

(Andrew P. Swiger)  

Senior Vice
  President  
    (Principal
  Financial Officer)  

/s/    PATRICK
  T. MULVA  

(Patrick T. Mulva)  

Vice President and Controller  
    (Principal
  Accounting Officer)  

115       

INDEX TO EXHIBITS    

3(i)  

Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as restated November 30,
  1999, and as further amended effective June 20, 2001 (incorporated by
  reference to Exhibit 3(i) to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011).  

3(ii)  

By-Laws, as revised to April 27, 2011 (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 3(ii) to the Registrant s Report on Form 8-K on April 29, 2011).  

10(iii)(a.1)  

2003 Incentive Program, as approved by shareholders May 28, 2003.*  

10(iii)(a.2)  

Form of restricted stock agreement with executive officers
  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Registrant s Report on
  Form 8-K of November 28, 2012).*  

10(iii)(a.3)  

Extended Provisions for Restricted Stock Unit Agreements-Settlement
  in Shares.*  

10(iii)(b.1)  

Short Term Incentive Program, as amended (incorporated by reference
  to Exhibit 99.3 to the Registrant s Report on Form 8-K on December
  1, 2009).*  

10(iii)(b.2)  

Form of Earnings Bonus Unit instrument granted to executive
  officers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant s
  Report on Form 8-K on November 28, 2012).*  

10(iii)(c.1)  

ExxonMobil Supplemental Savings Plan (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10(iii)(c.1) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K
  for 2011).*  

10(iii)(c.2)  

ExxonMobil Supplemental Pension Plan (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10(iii)(c.2) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K
  for 2011).*  

10(iii)(c.3)  

ExxonMobil Additional Payments Plan (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10(iii)(c.3) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K
  for 2011).*  

10(iii)(d)  

ExxonMobil Executive Life Insurance and Death Benefit Plan
  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(d) to the Registrant s
  Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2011).*  

10(iii)(f.1)  

2004 Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Plan (incorporated by
  reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(f.1) to the Registrant s Quarterly Report
  on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009).*  

10(iii)(f.2)  

Standing resolution for non-employee director restricted grants
  dated September 26, 2007 (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10(iii)(f.2) to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2012).*  

10(iii)(f.3)  

Form of restricted stock grant letter for non-employee
  directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(f.3) to the
  Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2009).*  

10(iii)(f.4)  

Standing resolution for non-employee director cash fees dated
  October 26, 2011 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(f.4) to the
  Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
  30, 2011).*  

10(iii)(g.3)  

1984 Mobil Compensation Management Retention Plan (incorporated by
  reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(g.3) to the Registrant s Annual Report on
  Form 10-K for 2011).*  

12  

Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges.  

14  

Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 14 to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
  2008).  

21  

Subsidiaries of the registrant.  

23  

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Independent Registered Public
  Accounting Firm.  

31.1  

Certification (pursuant to Securities Exchange Act
  Rule 13a-14(a)) by Chief Executive Officer.  

31.2  

Certification (pursuant to Securities Exchange Act
  Rule 13a-14(a)) by Principal Financial Officer.  

31.3  

Certification (pursuant to Securities Exchange Act
  Rule 13a-14(a)) by Principal Accounting Officer.  

116       

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  

(continued)   

*   Compensatory plan or arrangement
required to be identified pursuant to Item 15(a)(3) of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.   

  The registrant has not filed with this report copies
of the instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the
registrant and its subsidiaries for which consolidated or unconsolidated
financial statements are required to be filed. The registrant agrees to furnish
a copy of any such instrument to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon
request.   

117       

<EX-10.(III) (A1)>
 2
 xom10iiia1.htm
 2003 INCENTIVE PROGRAM

EXHIBIT 10(iii)(a.1)   

EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION   

   2003 INCENTIVE PROGRAM   

   (as approved by shareholders May
28, 2003)   

I.
Purposes   

This 2003 Incentive Program is intended to help
reward, retain, and motivate selected employees of the Corporation and its
affiliates and to align further the interests of those employees with the
interests of the Corporation's shareholders through the grant of stock-based
awards.  

II.
Definitions   

The following definitions apply:  

(1)  'Administrative authority' means the Board, a
committee designated by the Board, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chairman's
delegates authorized to administer outstanding awards under this Program,
establish requirements and procedures for the operation of the Program, and to
exercise other powers assigned to the administrative authority under this
Program in accordance with Section III.  

(2)  'Affiliate' means a corporation, partnership,
limited liability company, or other entity in which the Corporation, directly
or indirectly, owns an equity interest and which the administrative authority
determines to be an affiliate for purposes of this Program (including for
purposes of determining whether a change of employment constitutes a
termination).  

(3)  'Award' means a stock option, a stock appreciation
right, restricted stock, a restricted stock unit, performance stock, a
performance stock unit, deferred stock, a deferred stock unit, or other award
granted under this Program.  

(4)  'Board' means the Board of
Directors of the Corporation.   

(5)  'Code' means the Internal
Revenue Code, as in effect from time to time.   

(6)  'Compensation Committee' means the committee of
the Board so designated in accordance with Section IV.   

(7)  'Corporation' means Exxon Mobil Corporation, a
New Jersey corporation, or its successors.  

(8)  'Deferred stock' means a
share the delivery of which is subject to a specified deferral period.  

(9)  'Deferred stock unit' means
a stock unit the settlement of which is subject to a specified deferral period.  

(10)  'Designated beneficiary' means the person
designated by the grantee of an award pursuant to Section XVI to be entitled,
on the death of the grantee, to any remaining rights arising out of the award.  

(11)  'Detrimental activity' of a grantee means
activity at any time, during or after employment with the Corporation or an
affiliate, that is determined in individual cases by the administrative
authority to be (a) a material violation of applicable standards, policies, or
procedures of the Corporation or an affiliate; or (b) a material breach of
legal or other duties owed by the grantee to the Corporation or an affiliate;
or (c) a material breach of any contract between the grantee and the
Corporation or an affiliate; or (d) acceptance by grantee of duties to a third
party under circumstances that create a material conflict of interest, or the
appearance of a material conflict of interest, with respect to the grantee's
retention of outstanding awards under this Program.  Detrimental activity
includes, without limitation, activity that would be a basis for termination of
employment for cause under applicable law in the United States, or a comparable
standard under applicable law of another jurisdiction.  With respect to
material conflict of interest or the appearance of material conflict of
interest, such conflict or appearance might occur when, for example and without
limitation, a grantee holding an outstanding award becomes employed or
otherwise engaged by an entity that regulates, deals with, or competes with the
Corporation or an affiliate.  

1       

(12)   Employee  means an employee of the
Corporation or an affiliate, including a part-time employee or an employee on
military, family, or other approved temporary leave.  

(13)  'Exchange Act' means the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as in effect from time to time.  

(14)  'Fair market value' as of any day means (a) if
the New York Stock Exchange is open for trading on that day, the average of the
high and low price of the shares as reported on the consolidated tape during the
New York Stock Exchange regular session; or (b) if the New York Stock Exchange
is not open for trading on that day, the price determined under the preceding
clause (a) for the most recent prior trading day.  

(15)   'Grantee' means a recipient of an award under
this Program.  

(16)   Granting authority  means the Board or any
appropriate committee authorized to grant and amend awards under this Program
and to exercise other powers assigned to the granting authority under this
Program in accordance with Section V.  

(17)  'Incentive Stock Option' or 'ISO' means a
stock option that meets the requirements of Section 422 of the Code or any
successor provision.  

(18)  'Other award' means a form of award based on,
payable in, or otherwise related to shares that is not covered by Sections IX,
X, XI, or XII of this Program.  

(19)  'Performance stock' means a share the delivery
of which is subject to attainment of specified performance criteria.  

(20)  'Performance stock unit' means a stock unit
the delivery or settlement of which is subject to attainment of specified
performance criteria.  

(21)  'Program' means this 2003 Incentive Program,
as amended from time to time.  

(22)  'Reporting person' means a
person subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Exchange
Act with respect to the shares.  

(23)  'Resign' means to terminate
at the initiative of the employee before standard retirement time.  Resignation
includes, without limitation, early retirement at the initiative of the
employee.  The time or date of a resignation for purposes of this Program is
not necessarily the employee's last day on the payroll.  See Section XV(3).  

(24)  'Restricted stock' means shares subject to
restrictions on transfer and potential forfeiture for a specified restricted
period.  

(25)  'Restricted stock unit' means a stock unit
subject to restrictions on transfer and potential forfeiture for a specified
restricted period.  

(26)  'Rule 16b-3' means Rule 16b-3 or any successor
rule under the Exchange Act that exempts transactions under employee benefit
plans, as in effect from time to time.  

(27)  'Section 162(m)' means Section 162(m) of the
Code and the regulations thereunder, as in effect from time to time.  

(28)  'Share' means a share of common stock of the
Corporation, or any security issued in exchange therefor.  

(29)  'Stock unit' means a right with a value based
on the value of shares.  

(30)  'Shareholder-approved plan' means any of the
plans constituting parts of any Incentive Programs previously approved by
shareholders of the Corporation.  

2       

(31)  'Spread' means the
difference between the exercise price per share of an award and the fair market
value of the underlying shares on the date the award is exercised.  

(32)  'Standard retirement time'
means (a) for each US-dollar payroll employee, the first day of the month
immediately following the month in which the employee attains age 65; and (b)
for each other employee, the comparable age in that employee's payroll country
as determined by the administrative authority with reference to local law,
custom, and affiliate policies regarding retirement.  

(33)  'Stock appreciation right' or 'SAR' means an
award giving the grantee the right to receive the spread on the shares
specified in the award.  

(34)  'Terminate' means cease to be an employee for
any reason, whether at the initiative of the employee, the employer, or
otherwise.  That reason could include, without limitation, resignation or
retirement by the employee; discharge of the employee by the employer, with or
without cause; death; transfer of employment to an entity that is not an
affiliate; or a sale, divestiture, or other transaction as a result of which an
employer ceases to be an affiliate.  A change of employment from the
Corporation or one affiliate to another affiliate, or to the Corporation, is
not a termination.  The time or date of termination is not necessarily the
employee's last day on the payroll.  See Section XV(3).  

III. Administration   

The Board is the ultimate administrative authority for
this Program, with the power to interpret and administer its provisions.  The
Board may delegate its authority to a committee which, except in the case of
the Compensation Committee, need not be a committee of the Board.  Subject to
the authority of the Board or an authorized committee, the Chairman and his
delegates will serve as the administrative authority for purposes of
establishing requirements and procedures for the operation of the Program;
making final determinations and interpretations with respect to outstanding
awards; and exercising other powers assigned to the administrative authority
under this Program.   

IV. Compensation Committee   

The Board will appoint a Compensation Committee. 
The Compensation Committee will consist of three or more non-employee members
of the Board, each of whom satisfies such criteria of independence as the Board
may establish and such additional regulatory or listing requirements as the
Board may determine to be applicable or appropriate.  No award under this Program
may be granted to a member of the Compensation Committee.  

V. Right to Grant Awards;
Reserved Powers; Eligibility   

(1)  The Board is the ultimate granting authority
for this Program, with the power to select eligible persons for participation
and to make all decisions concerning the grant or amendment of awards.  The
Board may delegate this authority in whole or in part (a) in the case of
reporting persons, to the Compensation Committee; and (b) in the case of
employees who are not reporting persons, to a committee of two or more persons
who may, but need not, be directors of the Corporation.  

(2)  The granting authority has sole discretion to
select persons for awards under this Program, except that grants may be made
only to persons who at the time of grant are, or within the immediately
preceding 12 months have been, employees of the Corporation or of an affiliate
in which the Corporation directly or indirectly holds a 50 percent or greater
equity interest.  No person is entitled to an award as a matter of right, and
the grant of an award under this Program does not entitle a grantee to any
future or additional awards.  

VI. Term   

This Program will become effective when approved by
the shareholders of the Corporation and will terminate when there are no longer
any outstanding awards under the Program.  

VII.  Available Shares   

(1)  The maximum number of shares issued pursuant
to awards under this Program may not exceed 220,000,000 shares.  Within this
overall limitation, the following additional limitations also apply:  

3       

(a)  No more than 20,000,000
shares may be issued under ISOs;  

(b)  No more than 5,000,000       shares
may be granted under stock options or SARs to any one grantee in any one
calendar year;  

(c)  No more than 10,000,000
shares may be issued under other awards pursuant to Section XIII; and  

  (d) Grants of performance stock
and performance stock units to certain senior executives under Section XI(2)
are subject to the limitation based on annual net income specified in Section
XI(2)(b).  

(2)  To the extent an award under this Program is
settled in cash, expires unexercised, or is forfeited or cancelled, shares
subject to the award will not be considered to have been issued and will not be
applied against the maximum number of shares under the preceding clause (1).  

(3)  Shares surrendered to or withheld by the
Corporation in payment of the exercise price or applicable taxes upon exercise
or settlement of an award may also be used thereafter for additional awards.  

VIII. Adjustments   

Whenever a stock split, stock dividend, merger, or
other relevant change in capitalization occurs, the administrative authority
(which, in the case of reporting persons, must be the Compensation Committee)
may adjust the terms of outstanding awards, as well as the terms of this
Program relating to the number of shares that may be granted or issued, as
appropriate to prevent either dilution or enlargement of the rights of grantees
and potential grantees.  

IX. Stock Options; SARs   

(1)  Subject to the terms of this Program, stock
options and SARs may be granted to selected persons upon such terms and
conditions as the granting authority determines, except that:  

(a)  The exercise price per share may not be less
than 100 percent of fair market value on the date of grant;   

(b)  Except in case of death as provided in Section
XVI, a stock option or SAR may not become exercisable until at least one year
after the date of grant; and  

(c)  An unexercised stock option or SAR will expire
at the earliest of the following times:  

(i)  Ten years after it is
granted;  

(ii)  Any earlier date specified
in the award; or   

(iii)  Such earlier date as may
apply under Section XV.  

(2)  The granting authority may designate any stock
option as an ISO.  However, the aggregate fair market value (determined as of
the date a stock option is granted) of shares underlying stock options
designated as ISOs that become exercisable for the first time by any grantee
during any calendar year (under this Program and all other plans of the
Corporation and any affiliate) may not exceed $100,000 (or such other amount as
may be reflected in the limits imposed from time to time by Section 422(d) of
the Code or any successor provision).  This limitation will be applied by
taking stock options into account in the order in which they were granted. In
addition, (a) the total number of shares granted as ISOs under this Program may
not exceed the limit specified in Section VII(1)(a); and (b) no ISO may be
granted after the tenth anniversary of the date on which shareholders approve
this Program.  If a stock option or portion that is intended to qualify as an
ISO fails to meet the foregoing requirements, the option or portion will be
treated as not being an ISO but will otherwise remain a valid stock option
according to its terms.  

4       

(3)  Payment of the
exercise price of a stock option may be made in cash or shares in accordance
with the terms of this Program and any requirements or procedures of the
administrative authority in effect at the time.  If permitted by the administrative
authority, shares used as payment need not be physically delivered to the
Corporation but may be deemed transferred so that only a net number of shares
is physically delivered to the grantee in settlement of an option exercise. 
Shares used as payment will be valued at fair market value.  For this purpose,
the administrative authority may establish procedures under which fair market
value is determined either on the date of exercise or as of the immediately
preceding day.    

(4)  SARs may be
granted as freestanding awards or in tandem with stock options.  A tandem SAR
may be included with a stock option at the time the option is granted or by an
amendment of the option.  Exercise of a tandem SAR will be deemed a surrender
of the related stock option for cancellation and vice versa.  SARs may be
settled in cash, shares, or a combination thereof.  

(5)  A stock option
or SAR may provide that it will be deemed to be automatically exercised on the
last day of its term if the award has positive value and would otherwise expire
unexercised under subsections (1)(c)(i) or (1)(c)(ii) of this Section IX.  

X. Restricted Stock; Restricted
Stock Units   

Subject to the terms of this Program, restricted
stock and restricted stock units may be granted to selected persons upon such
terms and conditions as the granting authority determines, including: the
duration and conditions of the applicable restricted periods; whether or not,
in the case of restricted stock, the grantee has the right to vote the shares
or receive dividends; and, in the case of restricted stock units, the method of
settlement, which may be in cash, shares, or a combination thereof.  However,
except in case of death (which is covered in Section XVI), the restricted
period for restricted stock and restricted stock units granted under this
Section X may not be less than three years from the date the award is approved
by the granting authority.   

XI. Performance Stock;
Performance Stock Units   

(1)  Subject to the terms of this Program,
performance stock and performance stock units may be granted to selected
persons upon such terms and conditions as the granting authority determines,
including: the applicable performance periods and performance criteria;
maximum, minimum and target settlement values, if applicable; whether or not,
in the case of performance stock, the grantee has the right to vote the shares
or receive dividends; and, in the case of performance stock units, the method
of settlement, which may be in cash, shares, or another form of award permitted
under this Program, or a combination thereof.  However, the performance period
for performance stock and performance stock units granted under this Section XI
may not be less than 12 months.  The extent to which performance criteria have
been achieved will be determined by the administrative authority (which, in the
case of awards granted under Section XI(2), must be the Compensation
Committee).  

(2)  Performance stock or performance stock units
granted to the Corporation's Chief Executive Officer, the other four most
highly compensated officers, and any other key employees designated by the
Compensation Committee as of the end of each taxable year of the Corporation
will be subject to the following additional terms:  

(a)  The award will be subject
both to the shareholder-approved performance goal specified in paragraph (b) of
this Section XI(2) and to the attainment of such other objective goals as shall
be pre-established by the Compensation Committee based on one or more of the
following performance criteria:  earnings per share, net income, cash flow,
operating income, return on capital employed, and total shareholder return.   

(b)  The maximum amount of awards
granted under these terms to any one grantee for any one year is limited to the
shareholder-approved performance goal of one-half of one percent (0.5 percent)
of the Corporation's net income from operations for that year.  For this
purpose, performance stock will be valued at the fair market value of shares
and performance stock units will be valued at the fair market value of one
share per unit on the date of grant.  The Compensation Committee may award a
grantee less, but not more, than the maximum award under this Section XI(2).  

XII.           Deferred Stock;
Deferred Stock Units   

(1)  Subject to the terms of this Program, deferred
stock and deferred stock units may be granted to selected persons upon such
terms and conditions as the granting authority determines, including: the
duration of the deferral period; the number of installments in which delivery
of deferred stock or settlement of deferred stock units will be made; whether
or not, in the case of deferred stock, the grantee has the right to vote the
shares or receive dividends; and, in the case of deferred stock units, the
method of settlement, which may be in cash, shares, or a combination thereof. 
However, deferred stock and deferred stock units granted      

5       

under
this Section XII may only be granted in lieu of salary, bonus, or incentive
compensation that would otherwise be paid to the grantee in cash.  For this
purpose, deferred stock will be valued at the fair market value of shares and
deferred stock units will be valued at the fair market value of one share per
unit on the date of grant.  

(2)  Deferred stock and deferred stock units may be
awarded at the election of the granting authority or, if the granting authority
permits and subject to any requirements and procedures established by the
administrative authority, at the election of the grantee.  

XIII.  Other Awards   

Subject to the terms of this Program (including the
10,000,000 share limit specified in Section VII(1)(c)), other awards may be
granted to selected persons upon such terms and conditions as the granting
authority determines consistent with the overall purposes of this Program.  

XIV. Deferred and Installment
Settlement; Dividend and Interest Equivalents   

(1)  The granting
authority may permit or require settlement of any award under this Program to
be deferred and to be made in one or more installments upon such terms and
conditions as the granting authority may determine at the time the award is
granted or by amendment of the award.    

(2)  Any form of
award may accrue dividend equivalents upon such terms and conditions as the
granting authority determines.  Dividend equivalents may be paid currently in
cash or may be deemed to be reinvested in additional shares (which may
thereafter accrue additional dividend equivalents).  Any reinvestment will be
at fair market value on the date thereof.  Reinvested dividend equivalents will
be settled in cash or shares upon exercise, settlement, or payment of, or lapse
of restrictions on, the underlying award, and will expire or be forfeited or
cancelled upon the same conditions as the underlying award.   

(3)  An award that is settled in whole or in part in
cash on a deferred basis may provide for interest equivalents to be credited
with respect to the cash payment upon such terms and conditions as the granting
authority determines.  Interest equivalents may be paid currently or may be
added to the balance of the award amount and compounded.  Compounded interest
equivalents will be paid in cash upon exercise, settlement, or payment of, or
lapse of restrictions on, the underlying award, and will expire or be forfeited
or cancelled upon the same conditions as the underlying award.  The granting
authority may delegate to the administrative authority the right to determine
the rate or rates at which interest equivalents will accrue.  

(4)  The crediting of dividend or interest
equivalents on an outstanding award is not a new grant for purposes of the
eligibility provisions of Section V(2).  

XV.  Termination; Detrimental
Activity   

(1)  If a grantee
terminates before standard retirement time, other than by reason of death, all
outstanding awards of the grantee under this Program (including unexercised
stock options or SARs,  restricted stock and restricted stock units still
subject to restriction, and performance stock, performance stock units,
deferred stock, deferred stock units, and other awards not yet paid or settled)
will automatically expire and be forfeited as of the date of termination except
to the extent the administrative authority (which, in the case of reporting
persons, must be the Compensation Committee) determines otherwise.  

(2)  If a grantee
resigns, the administrative authority (which, in the case of reporting persons,
must be the Compensation Committee) may, in furtherance of the
employee-retention purpose of this Program or for other good reason, require
the grantee to pay to the Corporation an amount equal to the spread on any
stock option or SAR exercised by the grantee during the six-month period
immediately preceding such resignation.  The provisions of this Section XV(2)
are in addition to, not in lieu of, the other consequences of termination
provided in this Section XV.  

(3)  For purposes of
this Program, the administrative authority may determine that the time or date
an employee resigns or otherwise terminates is the time or date the employee
gives notice of resignation, accepts employment with another employer,
otherwise indicates an intent to resign, or is discharged.  The time or date of
termination for this purpose is not necessarily the employee's last day on the
payroll.  

(4)  If the
administrative authority (which, in the case of reporting persons, must be the
Compensation Committee) determines that a grantee has engaged in detrimental
activity, whether or not the grantee is still an employee, then the
administrative authority may, effective as of the time of such determination,
cancel and cause to expire all or part of the grantee's outstanding      

6       

awards under this Program (including unexercised stock
options or SARs,  restricted stock and restricted stock units still subject to
restriction, and performance stock, performance stock units, deferred stock,
deferred stock units, and other awards not yet paid or settled).  

(5)  If the
administrative authority is advised or has reason to believe that a grantee (a)
may have engaged in detrimental activity; or (b) may have accepted employment
with another employer or otherwise indicated an intent to resign, the authority
may suspend the exercise, delivery or settlement of all or any specified
portion of such grantee's outstanding awards pending an investigation of the
matter.  

XVI.  Death; Beneficiary
Designation   

(1)  Unless otherwise
specified in the award, if a grantee dies:  

(a)  Any of the grantee's stock
options or SARs that are not yet exercisable will become immediately
exercisable in full;  

(b)  Any remaining restrictions
with respect to the grantee's restricted stock or restricted stock units will
expire; and  

(c)  The administrative authority
may alter or accelerate the settlement schedule of any performance stock,
performance stock units, deferred stock, deferred stock units, or other award
payable on a deferred or installment basis.  

(2)  Any rights with
respect to an award existing after the grantee dies are exercisable by the
grantee's designated beneficiary or, if there is no designated beneficiary, by
the grantee's estate representative or lawful heirs as demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the administrative authority.  Beneficiary designations must be
made in writing and in accordance with such requirements and procedures as the
administrative authority may establish.  

XVII. Amendments to the Program
and Outstanding Awards; Shareholder Approval   

(1)  The Board can from time to time amend this
Program or halt the grant of new awards under this Program, except that
approval of the shareholders of the Corporation will be required for any
amendment (other than adjustments under Section VIII):  

(a)  To increase the maximum
number of shares that may be issued under   

  Section VII;   

(b)  To decrease the minimum
exercise price per share of a stock option or SAR; or  

(c)  That would otherwise
materially increase the benefits accruing to participants under the Program.  

An amendment of this Program
will, unless the amendment provides otherwise, be immediately and automatically
effective for all outstanding awards.  

(2)         Without amending this Program, the
granting authority may amend any one or more outstanding awards under this
Program or any other shareholder-approved plan to incorporate in those awards
any terms that could be incorporated in a new award under this Program, except
that approval of the shareholders of the Corporation will be required for any
amendment of an outstanding stock option or SAR to decrease the exercise price
per share (other than an adjustment under Section VIII).  An award as amended
must satisfy any conditions or limitations applicable to the particular type of
award under the terms of this Program.  

(3)  Approval of the shareholders of the Corporation
will also be required for (a) any cancellation of an outstanding option or SAR
in exchange for the grant of a new option or SAR having a lower exercise price
per share or (b) any cancellation of an outstanding option or SAR having an
exercise price above the current market price of the shares in exchange for
another form of award under this Program.  

XVIII. Withholding Taxes   

The Corporation has the right, in its sole
discretion, to deduct or withhold at any time shares, stock units, or cash
otherwise payable or deliverable in order to satisfy any required withholding,
social security, and similar taxes and contributions with respect to awards
under this Program.  Withheld shares may be retained by the Corporation or sold
on behalf of the grantee.  Alternatively,      

7       

the
Corporation also has the right in its sole discretion, to require the grantee
at any time to deposit with the Corporation cash in an amount determined by the
Corporation to be necessary to satisfy required withholding, social security,
and similar taxes and contributions with respect to awards under this Program. 
In its sole discretion, the Corporation may permit the grantee to satisfy all
or part of the grantee's obligations under this Section XVIII by delivering, in
accordance with any applicable requirements or procedures of the administrative
authority, shares previously owned by the grantee.  Shares withheld or
delivered in accordance with this Section XVIII will be valued at fair market
value.  For this purpose, the administrative authority may establish procedures
under which fair market value is determined either on the date of withholding
or delivery or as of the immediately preceding day.  

XIX. Non-US Awards   

Subject to the limitations contained in this
Program, the granting authority may establish different terms and conditions
for awards to persons who are residents or nationals of countries other than
the United States in order to accommodate the local laws, tax policies, or
customs of such countries.  Such terms and conditions may include, without
limitation, granting cash-only stock appreciation rights or stock units in lieu
of or in tandem with share awards.  The granting authority may adopt one or
more supplements or sub-plans under this Program to implement those different
terms and conditions.  

XX.  General Provisions   

(1)  Shares subject
to awards under this Program may either be authorized but unissued shares or
previously issued shares that have been reacquired by the Corporation.  

(2)  For reporting
persons, transactions under this Program are intended to comply with all
applicable conditions of Rule 16b-3.  If any provision of this Program or any
action by an authority under this Program fails to so comply, such provision or
action will, without further action by any person, be deemed to be
automatically amended to the extent necessary to effect compliance with Rule
16b-3 or if such provision or action cannot be amended to effect such
compliance, be deemed null and void.  

(3)  An award under this Program is not transferable
except by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and is not subject to
attachment, execution, or levy of any kind.  The designation by a grantee of a
designated beneficiary is not a transfer for this purpose.  

(4)  A particular form of award may be granted to a
grantee either alone or in addition to other awards hereunder.  The provisions of
particular forms of award need not be the same for each grantee.  

(5)  Unless otherwise provided in the terms of an
award, an award will not give the grantee any rights as a shareholder until any
shares subject to or deliverable in settlement of the award are actually issued
and registered in the name of the grantee free of restriction.  

(6)  An award may be
granted for no consideration, for the minimum consideration required by
applicable law, or for such other consideration as the granting authority may
determine.  

(7)  An award and any
shares in settlement of an award may be evidenced in such manner as the
administrative authority determines, including by physical instrument or
certificate, by electronic communication, or by book entry.  In the event of
any dispute or discrepancy regarding the terms of an award, the records of the
administrative authority will be determinative.  

(8)  The grant of an
award under this Program does not constitute or imply a contract of employment
and does not in any way limit or restrict the ability of the employer to
terminate the grantee's employment, with or without cause, even if such
termination results in the expiration, cancellation, or forfeiture of
outstanding awards.    

(9)  A grantee will
have only a contractual right to the shares or amounts, if any, payable in
settlement of an award under this Program, unsecured by any assets of the
Corporation or any other entity.  

(10)  This Program will be governed by the laws of
the State of New York and the United States of America, without regard to any
conflict of law rules.  

8       

</EX-10.(III) (A1)>

<EX-10.(III) (A3)>
 3
 xom10iiia3.htm
 EXTENDED PROVISIONS FOR RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENTS-SETTLEMENT IN SHARES

EXHIBIT 10(iii)(a.3)   

November 28, 2012    

   Exxon Mobil Corporation   

   Extended Provisions for
Restricted Stock Unit Agreements - Settlement in Shares   

     1.                Effective Date and Credit of
Restricted Stock Units    . 
If Grantee completes, signs, and returns the signature page of this Agreement
to the Corporation in Dallas County, Texas, U.S.A. on or before March 8, 2013,
this Agreement will become effective the date the Corporation receives and
accepts the signature page in Dallas County, Texas, U.S.A.  After this agreement
becomes effective, the Corporation will credit to Grantee the number of
restricted stock units specified on the signature page.  Subject to the terms
and conditions of this Agreement, each restricted stock unit ( unit )
will entitle Grantee to receive in settlement of the unit one share of the
Corporation's common stock.    

2.          
     Conditions    .  If credited, the units will be
subject to the provisions of this Agreement, and to such regulations and
requirements as the administrative authority of the Program may establish from
time to time.  The units will be credited to Grantee only on the condition that
Grantee accepts such provisions, regulations, and requirements.    

3.          
     Restrictions
and Risk of Forfeiture    . 
During the applicable restricted periods specified in section 4 of this
Agreement,   

  (a)  the units under restriction
may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, or otherwise disposed of or
encumbered, and any attempt to do so will be null and void; and  

  (b)  the units under restriction
may be forfeited as provided in section 6.     

4.          
     Restricted
Periods     .      The restricted periods will
commence when the units are credited to Grantee and, unless the units have been
forfeited earlier under section 6, will expire as follows, whether or not
Grantee is still an employee:  

  (a)  with   respect    to 50% of the units, on November
28, 2017; and  

  (b)  with respect to the
remaining units, on the later to occur of  

            (i)   November 28,
2022, or  

            (ii)  the first day of
the calendar year immediately following the year in which Grantee terminates;  

                    except that  

  (c)  the restricted periods will
automatically expire with respect to all shares on the death of Grantee.    

5.          
     No
Obligation to Credit Units    . 
The Corporation will have no obligation to credit any units and will have no other
obligation to Grantee with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement if
Grantee fails to complete, sign, and return the signature page of this
Agreement on or before March 8, 2013.  In addition, whether or not Grantee has
completed, signed, and returned the signature page, the Corporation will have
no obligation to credit any units and will have no other obligation to Grantee
with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement if, before the units are
credited:   

  (a)   Grantee terminates (other
than by death) before standard retirement time within the meaning of the
Program, except to the extent the administrative authority of the Program
determines Grantee may receive units under this Agreement; or   

  (b)   Grantee is determined to
have engaged in detrimental activity within the meaning of the Program; or   

  (c)   Grantee fails to provide
the Corporation with cash for any required taxes due upon crediting the units,
if Grantee is required to do so under section 7.  

     6.                Forfeiture of Units After
Crediting    . 
Until the applicable restricted period specified in section 4 has expired, the
units under restriction will be forfeited or subject to forfeiture in the
following circumstances:    

    Termination    

  If Grantee terminates (other than
by death) before standard retirement time within the meaning of the Program,
all units for which the applicable restricted periods have not expired will be
automatically forfeited as of the date of termination, except to the extent the
administrative authority determines Grantee may retain units issued under this
Agreement.   

1        

Detrimental activity    

  If Grantee is determined to have
engaged in detrimental activity within the meaning of the Program, either
before or after termination, all units for which the applicable restricted
periods have not expired will be automatically forfeited as of the date of such
determination.    

    Attempted
transfer    

  The units are subject to
forfeiture in the discretion of the administrative authority if Grantee
attempts to sell, assign, transfer, pledge, or otherwise dispose of or encumber
them during the applicable restricted periods.  

Applicable law    

  The units are subject to
forfeiture in whole or in part as the administrative authority deems necessary
in order to comply with applicable law.     

7.          
     Taxes    .  Notwithstanding the
restrictions on transfer that otherwise apply, the Corporation in its sole
discretion may withhold units or shares, either at the time of issuance, at the
time the applicable restricted periods expire, or at any other time in order to
satisfy any required withholding, social security, and similar taxes or
contributions (collectively,  required taxes ).  Withheld units or
shares may be retained by the Corporation or sold on behalf of Grantee.  If the
Corporation does not withhold units or shares to satisfy required taxes, in the
alternative the Corporation may require Grantee to deposit with the Corporation
cash in an amount determined by the Corporation to be necessary to satisfy
required taxes.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Corporation
will be under no obligation to credit units or to deliver shares to Grantee in
settlement of any units if Grantee fails timely to deposit such amount with the
Corporation.  The Corporation in its sole discretion may also withhold any
required taxes from dividends paid on the units.    

8.          
     Form
of Units; No Shareholder Status    . 
The units will be represented by book-entry credits in records maintained by or
on behalf of the Corporation.  Units will be unfunded and unsecured promises by
the Corporation to deliver shares in the future upon the terms and subject to
the conditions of this Agreement.  Grantee will not be a shareholder of the
Corporation with respect to units prior to the time shares are actually
registered in Grantee's name in settlement of such units in accordance with
section 9.    

9.          
     Settlement
of Units    . 
If and when the applicable restricted period expires with respect to any units,
subject to section 7, the Corporation will issue shares, free of restriction
and registered in the name of Grantee, in settlement of such units.  Such
shares will be delivered promptly after such expiration to or for the account
of Grantee either in certificated form or by book-entry transfer in accordance
with the procedures of the administrative authority in effect at the time.    

10.          
     Change
in Capitalization    . 
If during the applicable restricted periods a stock split, stock dividend, or
other relevant change in capitalization of the Corporation occurs, the
administrative authority will make such adjustments in the number of units
credited to Grantee, or in the number and type of securities deliverable to
Grantee in settlement of such units and used in determining dividend equivalent
amounts, as the administrative authority may determine to be appropriate. Any
resulting new units or securities credited with respect to previously credited
units that are still restricted under this Agreement will be delivered to and
held by or on behalf of the Corporation and will be subject to the same
provisions, restrictions, and requirements as those previously credited units.    

11.          
     Limits
on the Corporation's Obligations    . 
Notwithstanding anything else contained in this Agreement, under no
circumstances will the Corporation be required to credit any units or issue or
deliver any shares in settlement of units if doing so would violate any law or
listing requirement that the administrative authority determines to be
applicable, or if Grantee has failed to provide for required taxes pursuant to
section 7.      

12.          
     Receipt
or Access to Program    . 
Grantee acknowledges receipt of or access to the full text of the Program.    

2        

13.          
     Dividend
Equivalents    . 
The Corporation will pay to Grantee cash with respect to each credited unit
corresponding in amount, currency, and timing to cash dividends that would be
payable with respect to a share of common stock outstanding on each record date
that occurs during the applicable restricted period.  Alternatively, the
administrative authority may determine to reinvest such dividend equivalents in
additional units which will be held subject to all the terms and conditions
otherwise applicable to units under this Agreement.    

14.          
     Addresses
for Communications    . 
To facilitate communications regarding this Agreement, Grantee agrees to notify
the Corporation promptly of changes in current mailing and email addresses. 
Communications to the Corporation in connection with this Agreement should be
directed to the Incentive Processing Office at the address given on the
signature page of this Agreement, or to such other address as the Corporation may
designate by further notice to Grantee.    

15.          
     Transfer
of Personal Data    . 
The administration of the Program and this Agreement, including any subsequent
ownership of shares, involve the collection, use, and transfer of personal data
about Grantee between and among the Corporation, selected subsidiaries and
other affiliates of the Corporation, and third-party service providers such as
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney and Computershare (the Corporation's transfer
agent), as well as various regulatory and tax authorities around the world. 
This data includes Grantee's name, age, date of birth, contact information,
work location, employment status, tax status, social security number, salary,
nationality, job title, share ownership, and details of incentive awards granted,
cancelled, vested or unvested, and related information.  By accepting this
award, Grantee authorizes such collection, use, and transfer of this data.    Grantee may, at any time and without charge, view such
data and require necessary corrections to it.  Such data will at all times be
held in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and agreements.  

16.          
     No
Employment Contract or Entitlement to Other or Future Awards    .  This Agreement, the
Corporation's incentive programs, and Grantee's selection for incentive awards
do not imply or form a part of any contract or assurance of employment, and
they do not in any way limit or restrict the ability of Grantee's employer to
terminate Grantee's employment.  Grantee acknowledges that the Corporation
maintains and administers its incentive programs entirely in its discretion and
that Grantee is not entitled to any other or future incentive awards of any
kind in addition to those that have already been granted.    

17.          
     Governing
Law and Consent to Jurisdiction    . 
This Agreement and the Program are governed by the laws of the State of New
York without regard to any conflict of law rules.  Any dispute arising out of
or relating to this Agreement or the Program may be resolved in any state or
federal court located within Dallas County, Texas, U.S.A.  Grantee accepts that
venue and submits to the personal jurisdiction of any such court.  Similarly,
the Corporation accepts such venue and submits to such jurisdiction.    

18.          
     Entire
Agreement    . 
This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding between Grantee and the
Corporation with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement.  

3        

</EX-10.(III) (A3)>

<EX-12>
 4
 xomexhibit12.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

EXHIBIT 12   

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 5
 xomexhibit21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

EXHIBIT
21   

   Subsidiaries of the Registrant
(1), (2) and (3)   at December 31, 2012   

Percentage
  of  
    Voting
  Securities  
    Owned
  Directly  
    or
  Indirectly by Registrant  

State or  
    Country
  of Organization  

Abu Dhabi Petroleum Company Limited (5)  

23.75  

United Kingdom  

Aera Energy LLC (5)  

48.2  

California  

AKG Marketing Company Limited  

87.5  

Bahamas  

Al-Jubail Petrochemical Company (4) (5)   

50  

Saudi Arabia  

Ampolex (CEPU) Pte Ltd.  

100  

Singapore  

Ancon Insurance Company, Inc.   

100  

Vermont  

Barnett Gathering, LP   

100  

Texas  

Barzan Gas Company Limited (5)   

7  

Qatar  

BEB Erdgas und Erdoel GmbH   Co. KG (4) (5)   

50  

Germany  

Cameroon Oil Transportation Company S.A. (5)    

41.06  

Cameroon  

Caspian Pipeline Consortium (5)   

7.5  

Russia/Kazakhstan  

Castle Peak Power Company Limited (5)    

60  

Hong Kong  

Chalmette Refining, LLC (4) (5)  

50  

Delaware  

Cross Timbers Energy, LLC (4) (5)  

50  

Delaware  

Cross Timbers Energy Services, Inc.  

100  

Texas  

Ellora Energy Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

Esso Australia Resources Pty Ltd   

100  

Australia  

Esso Deutschland GmbH  

100  

Germany  

Esso Erdgas Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH  

100  

Germany  

Esso Exploration and Production Chad Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria (Deepwater)
  Limited  

100  

Nigeria  

Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria (Offshore
  East) Limited  

100  

Nigeria  

Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria Limited  

100  

Nigeria  

Esso Exploration and Production UK Limited  

100  

United Kingdom  

Esso Exploration Angola (Block 15) Limited   

100  

Bahamas  

Esso Exploration Angola (Block 17) Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

Esso Highlands Limited   

100  

Papua New Guinea  

Esso Italiana S.r.l.  

100  

Italy  

Esso Nederland B.V.   

100  

Netherlands  

Esso Norge AS   

100  

Norway  

Esso Petroleum Company, Limited   

100  

United Kingdom  

Esso Pipeline Investments Limited   

100  

Bahamas  

Esso Raffinage  

82.89  

France  

Esso Societe Anonyme Francaise   

82.89  

France  

Esso (Thailand) Public Company Limited   

65.99  

Thailand  

Esso Trading Company of Abu Dhabi   

100  

Delaware  

Exxon Azerbaijan Limited   

100  

Bahamas  

Exxon Chemical Arabia Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

Exxon Mobile Bay Limited Partnership  

100  

Delaware  

Exxon Neftegas Limited   

100  

Bahamas  

Exxon Overseas
  Corporation                                           

100  

Delaware  

Exxon Overseas Investment Corporation    

100  

Delaware  

1        

Percentage
  of  
    Voting
  Securities  
    Owned
  Directly  
    or
  Indirectly by Registrant  

State or  
    Country
  of Organization  

Exxon Ventures Holding, Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Abu Dhabi Offshore Petroleum Company
  Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Alaska Production Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Asia International Limited Liability
  Company, SARL  

100  

Luxembourg  

ExxonMobil Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.  

100  

Singapore  

ExxonMobil Australia Pty Ltd.   

100  

Australia  

ExxonMobil Belgium Finance   

100  

Belgium  

ExxonMobil Business Finance Company   

100  

Nevada  

ExxonMobil Canada Energy   

100  

Canada  

ExxonMobil Canada Ltd.  

100  

Canada  

ExxonMobil Canada Properties  

100  

Canada  

ExxonMobil Canada Resources Company  

100  

Canada  

ExxonMobil Capital N.V.   

100  

Netherlands  

ExxonMobil Central Europe Holding GmbH   

100  

Germany  

ExxonMobil Chemical France   

99.77  

France  

ExxonMobil Chemical Holland B.V.   

100  

Netherlands  

ExxonMobil Chemical Limited   

100  

United Kingdom  

ExxonMobil China Petroleum   Petrochemical Company
  Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil de Colombia S.A.  

99.7  

Colombia  

ExxonMobil Development Company   

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Energy Limited   

100  

Hong Kong  

ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Malaysia Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Norway AS  

100  

Norway  

ExxonMobil Finance Company Limited   

100  

United Kingdom  

ExxonMobil Gas Marketing Deutschland GmbH   Co. KG

50  

Germany  

ExxonMobil Gas Marketing Europe Limited   

100  

United Kingdom  

ExxonMobil Global Services Company  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Holding Company Holland LLC  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Holding Norway AS   

100  

Norway  

ExxonMobil Hong Kong Limited   

100  

Hong Kong  

ExxonMobil International Holdings Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil International Services  

100  

Luxembourg  

ExxonMobil Iraq Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Italiana Gas S.r.l.  

100  

Italy  

ExxonMobil Kazakhstan Inc.   

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Kazakhstan Ventures Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Kurdistan Region of Iraq Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Marine Limited  

100  

United Kingdom  

ExxonMobil Oil Corporation   

100  

New York  

ExxonMobil Permian Basin Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Petroleum   Chemical  

100  

Belgium  

ExxonMobil Pipeline Company  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Production Deutschland GmbH  

100  

Germany  

ExxonMobil Production Norway Inc.   

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Qatargas Inc.   

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Qatargas (II) Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Qatargas (II) Terminal Company Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

2        

Percentage
  of  
    Voting
  Securities  
    Owned
  Directly  
    or
  Indirectly by Registrant  

State or  
    Country
  of Organization  

ExxonMobil Ras Laffan (III) Limited   

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Rasgas Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Research and Engineering Company  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Sales and Supply LLC  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Southwest Holdings Inc.                 

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Technology Finance Company                

100  

Delaware  

Fujian Refining   Petrochemical Co. Ltd. (5)  

25  

China  

Golden Pass LNG Terminal Investments LLC  

100  

Delaware  

Golden Pass LNG Terminal LLC (5)   

17.6  

Delaware  

Imperial Oil Limited  

69.6  

Canada  

Imperial Oil (an Ontario General Partnership)  

69.6  

Canada  

Imperial Oil Resources (an Alberta limited
  partnership)   

69.6  

Canada  

Imperial Oil Resources Limited   

69.6  

Canada  

Imperial Oil Resources N.W.T. Limited  

69.6  

Canada  

Imperial Oil Resources Ventures Limited  

69.6  

Canada  

Infineum Holdings B.V. (5)    

49.96  

Netherlands  

Mobil Australia Resources Company Pty Limited   

100  

Australia  

Mobil California Exploration   Producing Asset
  Company   

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Caspian Pipeline Company   

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Cepu Ltd.    

100  

Bermuda  

Mobil Cerro Negro, Ltd.   

100  

Bahamas  

Mobil Corporation   

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Equatorial Guinea Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Erdgas-Erdoel GmbH  

100  

Germany  

Mobil Exploration Indonesia Inc.  

100  

Cayman Islands  

Mobil Oil Australia Pty Ltd.  

100  

Australia  

Mobil Oil Exploration   Producing Southeast Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Oil New Zealand Limited   

100  

New Zealand  

Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited   

100  

Nigeria  

Mobil Producing Texas   New Mexico Inc.   

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Refining Australia Pty Ltd.  

100  

Australia  

Mobil Services (Bahamas) Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

Mobil Yanbu Petrochemical Company Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Yanbu Refining Company Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

Mountain Gathering, LLC  

100  

Delaware  

Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij B.V. (4) (5)  

50  

Netherlands  

Palmetto Transoceanic LLC  

100  

Delaware  

Papua New Guinea Liquefied Natural Gas Global Company
  LDC (5)  

33.2  

Bahamas  

Phillips Exploration, Inc.   

100  

Pennsylvania  

Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (5)  

10  

Qatar  

Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (2) (5)  

24.15  

Qatar  

Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited      
  (5)  

24.999  

Qatar  

Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (II)
  (5)  

31.006  

Qatar  

Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (3) 
  (5)  

30  

Qatar  

Saudi Aramco Mobil Refinery Company Ltd. (4) (5)  

50  

Saudi Arabia  

Saudi Yanbu Petrochemical Co. (4) (5)  

50  

Saudi Arabia  

3        

Percentage
  of  
    Voting
  Securities  
    Owned
  Directly  
    or
  Indirectly by Registrant  

State or  
    Country
  of Organization  

Societa a responsabilita limitata Raffineria Padana
  Olii Minerali S.A.R.P.O.M. S.r.l.  

75.55  

Italy  

South Hook LNG Terminal Company Limited (5)  

24.15  

United Kingdom  

Tengizchevroil, LLP (5)  

25  

Kazakhstan  

Terminale GNL Adriatico S.r.l. (5)  

70.678  

Italy  

TonenGeneral Sekiyu K.K. (5)  

22.218  

Japan  

Trend Gathering   Treating, LP  

100  

Texas  

XH, LLC  

100  

Delaware  

XTO Energy Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

______________  

  NOTES:  

(1)  

For the purposes of this list,
  if the registrant owns directly or indirectly approximately 50 percent of the
  voting securities of any person and approximately 50 percent of the voting
  securities of such person is owned directly or indirectly by another
  interest, or if the registrant includes its share of net income of any other
  unconsolidated person in consolidated net income, such person is deemed to be
  a subsidiary.  

(2)  

With respect to certain
  companies, shares in names of nominees and qualifying shares in names of
  directors are included in the above percentages.  

(3)   

The names of other subsidiaries
  have been omitted from the above list since considered in the aggregate, they
  would not constitute a significant subsidiary under Securities and Exchange
  Commission Regulation S-X, Rule 1-02(w).  

(4)  

The registrant owns directly or
  indirectly approximately 50 percent of the securities of this person and
  approximately 50 percent of the voting securities of this person is owned
  directly or indirectly by another single interest.  

(5)  

The investment in this
  unconsolidated person is represented by the registrant's percentage interest
  in the underlying net assets of such person.  The accounting for these
  unconsolidated persons is referred to as the equity method of accounting.  

4        

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 6
 xomexhibit23.htm
 CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

EXHIBIT
23   

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

We hereby
consent to the incorporation by reference in the following   Exxon Mobil Corporation Registration Statements on:   

Form S-3
(No. 333-167787)                   XTO Energy Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan;  

Form S-8 (Nos. 333-101175,                  1993
Incentive Program of Exxon Mobil Corporation;  

                          333-38917,                             

                          33-51107,

333-75659)                             

Form S-8
(Nos. 333-145188,                  2003 Incentive Program of Exxon Mobil
Corporation;  

                          333-110494,  

                          333-183012)  

Form S-8
(Nos. 333-72955                     ExxonMobil Savings Plan;  

                          and
333-166576)  

Form S-8
(No. 333-117980)                   2004 Non-employee Director Restricted Stock
Plan;  

Form S-8 (No. 333-164620)                   Post-effective
amendment no. 1 on Form S-8 to Form S-4  

                                                                      relating
to XTO Energy Inc. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan and  

                                                                      2004
Incentive Plan  

of our
report dated February 27, 2013, relating to the financial statements and the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in
this Form 10-K.  

/s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  

Dallas,
Texas  

  February
27, 2013  

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 xomexhibit311.htm
 CERTIFICATION - CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

EXHIBIT 31.1   

Certification by Rex W. Tillerson   

   Pursuant to Securities Exchange
Act Rule 13a-    14(a)    

I, Rex W.
Tillerson, certify that:  

1.        
  I have
reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Exxon Mobil Corporation;  

2.        
  Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.        
  Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.        
  The
registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant
and have:  

(a)      
  Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)         Designed such internal control
over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;  

(c)      
  Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)      
  Disclosed in
this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and  

5.        
  The
registrant's other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  

(a)      
  All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and  

(b)      
  Any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: February 27, 2013    

/s/ 
  REX W. TILLERSON  

Rex W.
  Tillerson  

Chief
  Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 xomexhibit312.htm
 CERTIFICATION - PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

EXHIBIT 31.2   

Certification by Andrew P. Swiger   

   Pursuant to Securities Exchange
Act Rule 13a-    14(a)    

I, Andrew
P. Swiger, certify that:  

1.        
  I have
reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Exxon Mobil Corporation;  

2.        
  Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.        
  Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.        
  The
registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant
and have:  

(a)      
  Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)         Designed such internal control
over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;  

(c)      
  Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)      
  Disclosed in
this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and  

5.        
  The
registrant's other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  

(a)      
  All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and  

(b)      
  Any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.  

Date:
  February 27, 2013    

/s/ 
  ANDREW P. SWIGER  

Andrew P. Swiger   

Senior Vice President  

(Principal Financial Officer)  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-31.3>
 9
 xomexhibit313.htm
 CERTIFICATION - PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER

EXHIBIT 31.3   

Certification by Patrick T. Mulva   

   Pursuant to Securities Exchange
Act Rule 13a-    14(a)    

I, Patrick
T. Mulva, certify that:  

1.        
  I have
reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Exxon Mobil Corporation;  

2.        
  Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

3.        
  Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report;   

4.        
  The
registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant
and have:   

(a)      
  Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)         Designed such internal control
over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;  

(c)      
  Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)      
  Disclosed in
this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and   

5.        
  The
registrant's other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  

(a)      
  All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and  

(b)      
  Any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: February 27, 2013   

/s/  PATRICK T. MULVA  

Patrick T. Mulva  

Vice President and Controller  

(Principal Accounting Officer)  

</EX-31.3>

<EX-32.1>
 10
 xomexhibit321.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION - CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

EXHIBIT 32.1   

Certification of
Periodic Financial Report   

   Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350   

For purposes of 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned, Rex
W. Tillerson, the chief executive officer of Exxon Mobil Corporation (the
 Company ), hereby certifies that, to his knowledge:  

(i)           the Annual Report on
Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2012, as filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ) fully
complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and   

(ii)      
  the
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

Date:
  February 27, 2013  

/s/  REX W. TILLERSON  

Rex W. Tillerson  

Chief Executive Officer  

A signed original of this written statement required by Section
906 has been provided to Exxon Mobil Corporation and will be retained by Exxon
Mobil Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or
its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 11
 xomexhibit322.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION - PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

EXHIBIT 32.2   

Certification of
Periodic Financial Report   

   Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350   

For purposes of 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned,
Andrew P. Swiger, the principal financial officer of Exxon Mobil Corporation
(the  Company ), hereby certifies that, to his knowledge:   

(i)           the Annual Report on
Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2012, as filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ) fully
complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and   

(ii)      
  the
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

Date: February 27, 2013    

/s/  ANDREW P. SWIGER  

Andrew P. Swiger  

Senior Vice President  

(Principal Financial Officer)  

A signed original of this written statement required by Section
906 has been provided to Exxon Mobil Corporation and will be retained by Exxon
Mobil Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or
its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.2>

<EX-32.3>
 12
 xomexhibit323.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION - PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER

EXHIBIT 32.3   

Certification of
Periodic Financial Report   

   Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350   

For purposes of 18 U.S.C. Section 1350,
as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the
undersigned, Patrick T. Mulva, the principal accounting officer of Exxon Mobil
Corporation (the  Company ), hereby certifies that, to his knowledge:   

(i)           the Annual Report on
Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2012, as filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ) fully
complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and   

(ii)      
  the
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

Date: February 27, 2013    

/s/  PATRICK T. MULVA  

Patrick T. Mulva  

Vice President and Controller  

(Principal Accounting Officer)  

A signed original of this written statement required by Section
906 has been provided to Exxon Mobil Corporation and will be retained by Exxon
Mobil Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or
its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.3>

<EX-101.INS>
 19
 xom-20121231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 20
 xom-20121231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 21
 xom-20121231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 22
 xom-20121231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 23
 xom-20121231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 24
 xom-20121231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

CORRESP
 25
 filename25.htm

Exxon
Mobil Corporation                                                                                            

  5959
Las Colinas Boulevard  

  Irving, TX 75039-2298  

February
27, 2013  

Exxon
Mobil Corporation  

                                                                                                          2012
Annual Report on Form 10-K  

Securities
and Exchange Commission  

  100
       F Street N.E.  

  Washington, D.C.   20549  

Attention: 
EDGAR Document Control  

Dear
Sirs:  

Transmitted
with this cover note is Exxon Mobil Corporation's 2012 Annual Report on Form
10-K.  

The
financial statements contained in ExxonMobil's 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K
do not reflect any material changes from the preceding year resulting from
changes in any accounting principles or practices, or in the method of applying
such principles or practices.  The Corporation did not adopt authoritative
guidance in 2012 that had a material impact on the Corporation s financial
statements.  

Sincerely,  

/s/
LEONARD M. FOX   

                                                                                                          Leonard
M. Fox  

                                                                                                          Assistant
Controller  

Attachments  

