<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20140226_10-K_edgar_data_34088_0000034088-14-000012_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>27141736</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>423501</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>5579613</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>9026806</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>7072892</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2370633</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>107</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>24</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000034088-14-000012.hdr.sgml : 20140226
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20140226160702
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000034088-14-000012
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		30
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20131231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20140226
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20140226

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			EXXON MOBIL CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000034088
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PETROLEUM REFINING [2911]
		IRS NUMBER:				135409005
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NJ
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02256
		FILM NUMBER:		14644672

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5959 LAS COLINAS BLVD
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75039-2298
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9724441000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5959 LAS COLINAS BLVD
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75039-2298

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	EXXON CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	STANDARD OIL CO OF NEW JERSEY
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19721123

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000034088-14-000012.txt : 20140226

10-K
 1
 xom10k2013.htm
 FORM 10-K

2013    

UNITED STATES    

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION    

   WASHINGTON,
 D.C. 20549    

FORM 10-K    

   x        ANNUAL REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF    

   THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934    

  For the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2013   

  or   

            TRANSITION REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF    

   THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934    

  For the transition period from
              
to

Commission File Number 1-2256   

   EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION    

  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

NEW JERSEY   

13-5409005   

(State or other jurisdiction of  
    incorporation or organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer  
    Identification Number)  

5959 LAS COLINAS BOULEVARD, IRVING, TEXAS 75039-2298    

  (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)   

   (972) 444-1000    

  (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)   

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act:   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a
well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes     x      No            

  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not
required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes           No    x       

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes     x      No            

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has
submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every
Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405
of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes     x      No        

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.            

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a
smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer, 
 accelerated filer,  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated
filer    x           
   Accelerated filer            

  Non-accelerated filer                   Smaller
reporting company            

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
shell company (as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).    Yes           No    x       

  The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant on June 28, 2013, the last business day
of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, based on the
closing price on that date of $90.35 on the New York Stock Exchange composite
tape, was in excess of $397 billion.   

   Documents Incorporated by Reference:  Proxy
Statement for the 2014 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (Part III)    

EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION    

   FORM
10-K    

   FOR
THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2013    

   TABLE OF CONTENTS    

PART I   

Item 1.  

Business  

1    

Item 1A.  

Risk Factors  

2    

Item 1B.  

Unresolved Staff Comments  

4    

Item 2.  

Properties  

5    

Item 3.  

Legal Proceedings  

26    

Item 4.  

Mine Safety Disclosures  

26    

Executive Officers of the Registrant [pursuant to
  Instruction 3 to Regulation S-K, Item 401(b)]  

27    

PART II   

Item 5.  

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
  Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

30    

Item 6.  

Selected Financial Data  

30    

Item 7.  

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
  Condition and Results of Operations  

30    

Item 7A.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
  Market Risk  

30    

Item 8.  

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  

31    

Item 9.  

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
  Accounting and Financial Disclosure  

31    

Item 9A.  

Controls and Procedures  

31    

Item 9B.  

Other Information  

31    

PART III   

Item 10.  

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
  Governance  

32     

Item 11.  

Executive Compensation  

32     

Item 12.  

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
  Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

32     

Item 13.  

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and
  Director Independence  

33     

Item 14.  

Principal Accounting Fees and Services  

33     

PART IV   

Item 15.  

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  

33     

Financial Section  

34     

Signatures  

113     

Index to Exhibits  

115     

Exhibit 12   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to
  Fixed Charges  

Exhibits 31 and 32   Certifications  

PART I   

   ITEM 1.
      BUSINESS    

  Exxon Mobil Corporation was incorporated in the State
of New Jersey in 1882. Divisions and affiliated companies of ExxonMobil operate
or market products in the United States and most other countries of the world.
Their principal business is energy, involving exploration for, and production
of, crude oil and natural gas, manufacture of petroleum products and
transportation and sale of crude oil, natural gas and petroleum products.
ExxonMobil is a major manufacturer and marketer of commodity petrochemicals,
including olefins, aromatics, polyethylene and polypropylene plastics and a
wide variety of specialty products. ExxonMobil also has interests in electric
power generation facilities. Affiliates of ExxonMobil conduct extensive
research programs in support of these businesses.   

  Exxon Mobil Corporation has several divisions and
hundreds of affiliates, many with names that include    ExxonMobil   ,    Exxon   ,
   Esso, Mobil    or    XTO   . For convenience and simplicity, in this
report the terms    ExxonMobil, Exxon, Esso, Mobil    and    XTO   , as well
as terms like    Corporation   ,    Company   ,    our   ,    we     and    its   ,
are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific affiliates or groups
of affiliates. The precise meaning depends on the context in question.   

  Throughout ExxonMobil s businesses, new and ongoing
measures are taken to prevent and minimize the impact of our operations on air,
water and ground. These include a significant investment in refining
infrastructure and technology to manufacture clean fuels as well as projects to
monitor and reduce nitrogen oxide, sulfur oxide, and greenhouse gas emissions and
expenditures for asset retirement obligations.  Using definitions and
guidelines established by the American Petroleum Institute, ExxonMobil s 2013
worldwide environmental expenditures for all such preventative and remediation
steps, including ExxonMobil s share of equity company expenditures, were $6.0 billion,
of which $3.5 billion were included in expenses with the remainder in
capital expenditures. The total cost for such activities is expected to remain
in this range in 2014 and 2015 (with capital expenditures approximately 45 percent
of the total).   

  The energy and petrochemical industries are highly
competitive. There is competition within the industries and also with other
industries in supplying the energy, fuel and chemical needs of both industrial
and individual consumers. The Corporation competes with other firms in the sale
or purchase of needed goods and services in many national and international
markets and employs all methods of competition which are lawful and appropriate
for such purposes.   

  Operating data and industry segment information for
the Corporation are contained in the Financial Section of this report under the
following:  Quarterly Information ,  Note 18: Disclosures about Segments
and Related Information  and  Operating Summary . Information on oil and gas
reserves is contained in the  Oil and Gas Reserves  part of the  Supplemental
Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities  portion of
the Financial Section of this report.  

  ExxonMobil has a long-standing commitment to the
development of proprietary technology. We have a wide array of research
programs designed to meet the needs identified in each of our business
segments. Information on Company-sponsored research and development spending is
contained in  Note 3: Miscellaneous Financial Information  of the
Financial Section of this report. ExxonMobil held approximately 11 thousand
active patents worldwide at the end of 2013. For technology licensed to third
parties, revenues totaled approximately $195 million in 2013. Although
technology is an important contributor to the overall operations and results of
our Company, the profitability of each business segment is not dependent on any
individual patent, trade secret, trademark, license, franchise or concession.  

  The number of regular employees was 75.0 thousand, 76.9
thousand and 82.1 thousand at years ended 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
Regular employees are defined as active executive, management, professional,
technical and wage employees who work full time or part time for the
Corporation and are covered by the Corporation s benefit plans and programs.
Regular employees do not include employees of the company-operated retail sites
(CORS). The number of CORS employees was 9.8 thousand, 11.1 thousand and 17.0
thousand at years ended 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

  Information concerning the source and availability of
raw materials used in the Corporation s business, the extent of seasonality in
the business, the possibility of renegotiation of profits or termination of
contracts at the election of governments and risks attendant to foreign
operations may be found in  Item 1A Risk Factors  and  Item 2 Properties  in
this report.   

  ExxonMobil maintains a website at exxonmobil.com. Our
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made
available through our website as soon as reasonably practical after we
electronically file or furnish the reports to the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Also available on the Corporation s website are the Company s
Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, as
well as the charters of the audit, compensation and nominating committees of
the Board of Directors. Information on our website is not incorporated into
this report.  

1       

ITEM 1A.       RISK
FACTORS   

  ExxonMobil s financial and operating
results are subject to a variety of risks inherent in the global oil, gas, and
petrochemical businesses. Many of these risk factors are not within the
Company s control and could adversely affect our business, our financial and
operating results or our financial condition. These risk factors include:   

   Supply and Demand    

  The oil, gas, and petrochemical businesses are
fundamentally commodity businesses. This means ExxonMobil s operations and
earnings may be significantly affected by changes in oil, gas and petrochemical
prices and by changes in margins on refined products. Oil, gas, petrochemical
and product prices and margins in turn depend on local, regional and global
events or conditions that affect supply and demand for the relevant commodity.   

   Economic conditions.    The demand for energy and petrochemicals correlates closely with
general economic growth rates. The occurrence of recessions or other periods of
low or negative economic growth will typically have a direct adverse impact on
our results. Other factors that affect general economic conditions in the world
or in a major region, such as changes in population growth rates, periods of
civil unrest, government austerity programs, or currency exchange rate
fluctuations, can also impact the demand for energy and petrochemicals.
Sovereign debt downgrades, defaults, inability to access debt markets due to
credit or legal constraints, liquidity crises, the breakup or restructuring of
fiscal, monetary, or political systems such as the European Union, and other
events or conditions that impair the functioning of financial markets and
institutions also pose risks to ExxonMobil, including risks to the safety of
our financial assets and to the ability of our partners and customers to
fulfill their commitments to ExxonMobil.   

   Other demand-related factors.    Other factors that may affect the demand for oil, gas
and petrochemicals, and therefore impact our results, include technological
improvements in energy efficiency; seasonal weather patterns, which affect the
demand for energy associated with heating and cooling; increased
competitiveness of alternative energy sources that have so far generally not
been competitive with oil and gas without the benefit of government subsidies
or mandates; and changes in technology or consumer preferences that alter fuel
choices, such as toward alternative fueled vehicles.   

   Other supply-related factors.    Commodity prices and margins also vary depending on a
number of factors affecting supply. For example, increased supply from the
development of new oil and gas supply sources and technologies to enhance
recovery from existing sources tend to reduce commodity prices to the extent
such supply increases are not offset by commensurate growth in demand. Similarly,
increases in industry refining or petrochemical manufacturing capacity tend to
reduce margins on the affected products. World oil, gas, and petrochemical
supply levels can also be affected by factors that reduce available supplies,
such as adherence by member countries to OPEC production quotas and the
occurrence of wars, hostile actions, natural disasters, disruptions in
competitors  operations, or unexpected unavailability of distribution channels
that may disrupt supplies. Technological change can also alter the relative
costs for competitors to find, produce, and refine oil and gas and to
manufacture petrochemicals.   

   Other market factors.    ExxonMobil s business results are also exposed to
potential negative impacts due to changes in interest rates, inflation,
currency exchange rates, and other local or regional market conditions. We
generally do not use financial instruments to hedge market exposures.   

   Government and Political Factors    

  ExxonMobil s results can be adversely affected by
political or regulatory developments affecting our operations.   

   Access limitations.    A number of countries limit access to their oil and gas resources, or
may place resources off-limits from development altogether. Restrictions on
foreign investment in the oil and gas sector tend to increase in times of high
commodity prices, when national governments may have less need of outside
sources of private capital. Many countries also restrict the import or export
of certain products based on point of origin.   

   Restrictions on doing business.    As a U.S. company, ExxonMobil is subject to laws
prohibiting U.S. companies from doing business in certain countries, or
restricting the kind of business that may be conducted. Such restrictions may
provide a competitive advantage to our non-U.S. competitors unless their own
home countries impose comparable restrictions.   

   Lack of legal certainty.    Some countries in which we do business lack
well-developed legal systems, or have not yet adopted clear regulatory
frameworks for oil and gas development. Lack of legal certainty exposes our
operations to increased risk of adverse or unpredictable actions by government
officials, and also makes it more difficult for us to enforce our contracts. In
some cases these risks can be partially offset by agreements to arbitrate
disputes in an international forum, but the adequacy of this remedy may still
depend on the local legal system to enforce an award.   

2       

Regulatory and litigation risks.    Even in countries with well-developed legal
systems where ExxonMobil does business, we remain exposed to changes in law
(including changes that result from international treaties and accords) that
could adversely affect our results, such as:   

increases in taxes or government royalty rates
  (including retroactive claims);  

price controls;  

changes in environmental regulations or other laws
  that increase our cost of compliance or reduce or delay available business
  opportunities (including changes in laws related to offshore drilling
  operations, water use, or hydraulic fracturing);  

adoption of regulations mandating the use of
  alternative fuels or uncompetitive fuel components;  

adoption of government payment transparency
  regulations that could require us to disclose competitively sensitive
  commercial information, or that could cause us to violate the non-disclosure
  laws of other countries; and  

government actions to cancel contracts,
  re-denominate the official currency, renounce or default on obligations,
  renegotiate terms unilaterally, or expropriate assets.  

Legal remedies available to compensate us for
expropriation or other takings may be inadequate.   

  We also may be adversely affected by the outcome of
litigation, especially in countries such as the United States in which very
large and unpredictable punitive damage awards may occur, or by government
enforcement proceedings alleging non-compliance with applicable laws or
regulations.   

   Security concerns.    Successful operation of particular facilities or projects may be
disrupted by civil unrest, acts of sabotage or terrorism, and other local
security concerns. Such concerns may require us to incur greater costs for
security or to shut down operations for a period of time.   

   Climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions.    Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a
number of countries have adopted, or are considering the adoption of,
regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These include
adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, restrictive permitting,
increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable
energy. These requirements could make our products more expensive, lengthen
project implementation times, and reduce demand for hydrocarbons, as well as
shift hydrocarbon demand toward relatively lower-carbon sources such as natural
gas. Current and pending greenhouse gas regulations may also increase our
compliance costs, such as for monitoring or sequestering emissions.   

   Government sponsorship of alternative energy.    Many governments are providing tax advantages and
other subsidies to support alternative energy sources or are mandating the use
of specific fuels or technologies. Governments are also promoting research into
new technologies to reduce the cost and increase the scalability of alternative
energy sources. We are conducting our own research efforts into alternative
energy, such as through sponsorship of the Global Climate and Energy Project at
Stanford University and research into liquid products from algae and biomass
that can be further converted to transportation fuels. Our future results may
depend in part on the success of our research efforts and on our ability to
adapt and apply the strengths of our current business model to providing the energy
products of the future in a cost-competitive manner. See  Management
Effectiveness  below.   

   Management Effectiveness    

  In addition to external economic and political
factors, our future business results also depend on our ability to manage
successfully those factors that are at least in part within our control. The
extent to which we manage these factors will impact our performance relative to
competition. For projects in which we are not the operator, we depend on the
management effectiveness of one or more co-venturers whom we do not control.   

   Exploration and development program.    Our ability to maintain and grow our oil and gas
production depends on the success of our exploration and development efforts.
Among other factors, we must continuously improve our ability to identify the
most promising resource prospects and apply our project management expertise to
bring discovered resources on line on schedule and within budget.   

   Project management.    The success of ExxonMobil s Upstream, Downstream, and Chemical
businesses depends on complex, long-term, capital intensive projects. These
projects in turn require a high degree of project management expertise to
maximize efficiency. Specific factors that can affect the performance of major
projects include our ability to: negotiate successfully with joint venturers,
partners, governments, suppliers, customers, or others; model and optimize
reservoir performance; develop markets for project outputs, whether through
long-term contracts or the development of effective spot markets; manage
changes in operating conditions and costs, including costs of third party
equipment or services such as drilling rigs and shipping; prevent, to the
extent possible, and respond effectively to unforeseen technical difficulties
that could delay project startup or cause unscheduled project downtime; and
influence the performance of project operators where ExxonMobil does not
perform that role.   

3       

The term  project  as used
in this report can refer to a variety of different activities and does not
necessarily have the same meaning as in any government payment transparency reports.

Operational efficiency.    An important component of ExxonMobil s competitive
performance, especially given the commodity-based nature of many of our
businesses, is our ability to operate efficiently, including our ability to
manage expenses and improve production yields on an ongoing basis. This
requires continuous management focus, including technology improvements, cost
control, productivity enhancements, regular reappraisal of our asset portfolio,
and the recruitment, development and retention of high caliber employees.   

   Research and development.    To maintain our competitive position, especially in
light of the technological nature of our businesses and the need for continuous
efficiency improvement, ExxonMobil s research and development organizations
must be successful and able to adapt to a changing market and policy
environment.   

   Safety, business controls, and environmental risk
management.    Our results depend on
management s ability to minimize the inherent risks of oil, gas, and
petrochemical operations, to control effectively our business activities and to
minimize the potential for human error. We apply rigorous management systems
and continuous focus to workplace safety and to avoiding spills or other
adverse environmental events. For example, we work to minimize spills through a
combined program of effective operations integrity management, ongoing
upgrades, key equipment replacements, and comprehensive inspection and
surveillance. Similarly, we are implementing cost-effective new technologies
and adopting new operating practices to reduce air emissions, not only in
response to government requirements but also to address community priorities.
We also maintain a disciplined framework of internal controls and apply a
controls management system for monitoring compliance with this framework.
Substantial liabilities and other adverse impacts could result if our
management systems and controls do not function as intended. The ability to
insure against such risks is limited by the capacity of the applicable
insurance markets, which may not be sufficient.   

  Business risks also include the risk of cybersecurity
breaches. If our systems for protecting against cybersecurity risks prove not
to be sufficient, ExxonMobil could be adversely affected such as by having its
business systems compromised, its proprietary information altered, lost or
stolen, or its business operations disrupted.   

   Preparedness.   
Our operations may be disrupted by severe weather events, natural disasters,
human error, and similar events. For example, hurricanes may damage our
offshore production facilities or coastal refining and petrochemical plants in
vulnerable areas. Our ability to mitigate the adverse impacts of these events
depends in part upon the effectiveness of our rigorous disaster preparedness
and response planning, as well as business continuity planning.   

  Projections, estimates and descriptions of
ExxonMobil s plans and objectives included or incorporated in Items 1, 1A, 2, 7
and 7A of this report are forward-looking statements. Actual future results,
including project completion dates, production rates, capital expenditures, costs
and business plans could differ materially due to, among other things, the
factors discussed above and elsewhere in this report.   

ITEM 1B.  UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS   

  None.   

4       

Item 2.  
    Properties   

   Information with regard to oil and gas
producing activities follows:    

1. Disclosure of Reserves    

   A. Summary of Oil and Gas Reserves at
Year-End 2013    

  The table below summarizes the oil-equivalent proved
reserves in each geographic area and by product type for consolidated
subsidiaries and equity companies. The Corporation has reported proved reserves
on the basis of the average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month
during the last 12-month period. Gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at
six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels. No major discovery or other
favorable or adverse event has occurred since December 31, 2013, that would
cause a significant change in the estimated proved reserves as of that date.   

(1)   South America includes proved
developed reserves of 0.2 million barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids
and 44 billion cubic feet of natural gas and proved undeveloped reserves of 0.1
million barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids and 10 billion cubic
feet of natural gas.    

5       

In the preceding reserves information, consolidated
subsidiary and equity company reserves are reported separately. However, the
Corporation operates its business with the same view of equity company reserves
as it has for reserves from consolidated subsidiaries.   

  The Corporation s overall volume capacity outlook,
based on projects coming on stream as anticipated, is for production capacity
to grow over the period 2014-2018. However, actual volumes will vary from year
to year due to the timing of individual project start-ups, operational outages,
reservoir performance, regulatory changes, asset sales, weather events, price
effects on production sharing contracts and other factors as described in Item
1A Risk Factors of this report.   

  The estimation of proved reserves, which is based on
the requirement of reasonable certainty, is an ongoing process based on
rigorous technical evaluations, commercial and market assessments and detailed
analysis of well and reservoir information such as flow rates and reservoir
pressure declines. Furthermore, the Corporation only records proved reserves
for projects which have received significant funding commitments by management
made toward the development of the reserves. Although the Corporation is reasonably
certain that proved reserves will be produced, the timing and amount recovered
can be affected by a number of factors including completion of development
projects, reservoir performance, regulatory approvals and significant changes
in projections of long-term oil and gas price levels.   

   B. Technologies Used in Establishing Proved
Reserves Additions in 2013    

  Additions to ExxonMobil s proved reserves in 2013 were
based on estimates generated through the integration of available and
appropriate geological, engineering and production data, utilizing
well-established technologies that have been demonstrated in the field to yield
repeatable and consistent results.   

  Data used in these integrated assessments included
information obtained directly from the subsurface via wellbores, such as well
logs, reservoir core samples, fluid samples, static and dynamic pressure
information, production test data, and surveillance and performance
information. The data utilized also included subsurface information obtained
through indirect measurements including high-quality 2-D and 3-D seismic data,
calibrated with available well control information. The tools used to interpret
the data included proprietary seismic processing software, proprietary
reservoir modeling and simulation software, and commercially available data
analysis packages.   

  In some circumstances, where appropriate analog
reservoirs were available, reservoir parameters from these analogs were used to
increase the quality of and confidence in the reserves estimates.   

   C. Qualifications of Reserves
Technical Oversight Group and Internal Controls over Proved Reserves    

  ExxonMobil has a dedicated Global Reserves group that provides
technical oversight and is separate from the operating organization. Primary
responsibilities of this group include oversight of the reserves estimation
process for compliance with Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules and
regulations, review of annual changes in reserves estimates, and the reporting
of ExxonMobil s proved reserves. This group also maintains the official company
reserves estimates for ExxonMobil s proved reserves of crude and natural gas
liquids, bitumen, synthetic oil and natural gas. In addition, the group
provides training to personnel involved in the reserves estimation and
reporting process within ExxonMobil and its affiliates. The Manager of the
Global Reserves group has more than 30 years of experience in reservoir
engineering and reserves assessment and has a degree in Engineering.  He is an
active member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) and previously served
on the SPE Oil and Gas Reserves Committee. The group is managed by and staffed
with individuals that have an average of more than 20 years of technical
experience in the petroleum industry, including expertise in the classification
and categorization of reserves under the SEC guidelines. This group includes
individuals who hold advanced degrees in either Engineering or Geology. Several
members of the group hold professional registrations in their field of
expertise, and members have served on the SPE Oil and Gas Reserves Committee.   

  The Global Reserves group maintains a central database
containing the official company reserves estimates. Appropriate controls,
including limitations on database access and update capabilities, are in place
to ensure data integrity within this central database.  An annual review of the
system s controls is performed by internal audit. Key components of the
reserves estimation process include technical evaluations and analysis of well
and field performance and a rigorous peer review. No changes may be made to the
reserves estimates in the central database, including additions of any new
initial reserves estimates or subsequent revisions, unless these changes have
been thoroughly reviewed and evaluated by duly authorized personnel within the
operating organization. In addition, changes to reserves estimates that exceed
certain thresholds require further review and approval of the appropriate level
of management within the operating organization before the changes may be made
in the central database. Endorsement by the Global Reserves group for all proved
reserves changes is a mandatory component of this review process. After all
changes are made, reviews are held with senior management for final
endorsement.   

6       

2. Proved
Undeveloped Reserves    

  At year-end 2013, approximately 8.5 billion
oil-equivalent barrels (GOEB) of ExxonMobil s proved reserves were classified
as proved undeveloped. This represents 34 percent of the 25.2 GOEB reported in
proved reserves. This compares to the 9.9 GOEB of proved undeveloped reserves
reported at the end of 2012. The net decrease is primarily due to project
startups in Canada and Kazakhstan. During the year, ExxonMobil conducted
development activities in over 100 fields that resulted in the transfer of
approximately 1.9 GOEB from proved undeveloped to proved developed reserves by
year-end. The largest transfers were related to Kearl Initial Development
startup and new pad steam injection in the Cold Lake field in Canada, Kashagan
field startup in Kazakhstan and the Groningen compression assessment in the
Netherlands.   

  One of ExxonMobil s requirements for reporting proved
reserves is that management has made significant funding commitments toward the
development of the reserves. ExxonMobil has a disciplined investment strategy
and many major fields require long lead-time in order to be developed.
Development projects typically take two to four years from the time of first
recording of proved reserves to the start of production of these reserves.
However, the development time for large and complex projects can exceed five years.
During 2013, discoveries and extensions related to new projects added
approximately 0.7 GOEB of proved undeveloped reserves. The largest of these
additions were related to planned drilling in the United States and Upper Zakum
field expansion in Abu Dhabi. Overall, investments of $25.3 billion were made
by the Corporation during 2013 to progress the development of reported proved
undeveloped reserves, including $22.7 billion for oil and gas producing
activities and an additional $2.6 billion for other non-oil and gas producing
activities such as the construction of support infrastructure and other related
facilities that were undertaken to progress the development of proved
undeveloped reserves. These investments represented 66 percent of the $38.2 billion
in total reported Upstream capital and exploration expenditures.   

  Proved undeveloped reserves in Australia, Papua New
Guinea, the United States, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, and the Netherlands have
remained undeveloped for five years or more primarily due to constraints on the
capacity of infrastructure, the pace of co-venturer/government funding, as well
as the time required to complete development for very large projects. The
Corporation is reasonably certain that these proved reserves will be produced;
however, the timing and amount recovered can be affected by a number of factors
including completion of development projects, reservoir performance, regulatory
approvals, and significant changes in long-term oil and gas price levels. Of the
proved undeveloped reserves that have been reported for five or more years, 91
percent are contained in the aforementioned countries.  The largest of these is
related to LNG/Gas projects in Australia and Papua New Guinea, where
construction of the initial development is under way. In Kazakhstan, the proved
undeveloped reserves are related to the remainder of the initial development of
the offshore Kashagan field which is included in the North Caspian Production
Sharing Agreement and the Tengizchevroil joint venture which includes a
production license in the Tengiz   Korolev field complex. The Tengizchevroil
joint venture is producing, and proved undeveloped reserves will continue to
move to proved developed as approved development phases progress. In the
Netherlands, the Groningen gas field has proved undeveloped reserves reported
that are related to installation of future stages of compression. These
reserves will move to proved developed when the additional stages of
compression are installed to maintain field delivery pressure.    

7       

3. Oil and Gas
Production, Production Prices and Production Costs    

   A. Oil and Gas Production    

  The table below summarizes production by
final product sold and by geographic area for the last three years.   

(1)   South America includes liquids
production for 2012 and 2011 of one thousand barrels daily for each year and
natural gas production available for sale for 2013, 2012 and 2011 of 28 million,
38 million, and 45 million cubic feet daily, respectively.    

8       

B. Production Prices
and Production Costs    

  The table below summarizes average
production prices and average production costs by geographic area and by
product type for the last three years.   

9       

Average production prices have been calculated by
using sales quantities from the Corporation s own production as the divisor.
Average production costs have been computed by using net production quantities
for the divisor. The volumes of crude oil and natural gas liquids (NGL)
production used for this computation are shown in the oil and gas production
table in section 3.A. The volumes of natural gas used in the calculation are
the production volumes of natural gas available for sale and are also shown in
section 3.A. The natural gas available for sale volumes are different from
those shown in the reserves table in the  Oil and Gas Reserves  part of the
 Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities 
portion of the Financial Section of this report due to volumes consumed or
flared. Gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet
per one thousand barrels.   

10       

4. Drilling and Other
Exploratory and Development Activities    

   A. Number of Net Productive and Dry
Wells Drilled    

11       

12       

B. Exploratory and Development
Activities Regarding Oil and Gas Resources Extracted by Mining Technologies    

   Syncrude Operations.    Syncrude is a joint venture established to recover
shallow deposits of oil sands using open-pit mining methods to extract the
crude bitumen, and then upgrade it to produce a high-quality, light (32 degrees
API), sweet, synthetic crude oil. Imperial Oil Limited is the owner of a 25
percent interest in the joint venture. Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6
percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited. In 2013, the company s share of net
production of synthetic crude oil was about 65 thousand barrels per day and
share of net acreage was about 63 thousand acres in the Athabasca oil
sands deposit.   

   Kearl Project.    The Kearl project is a joint venture established to
recover shallow deposits of oil sands using open-pit mining methods to extract
the crude bitumen. Imperial Oil Limited holds a 70.96 percent interest in the
joint venture and ExxonMobil Canada Properties holds the other 29.04 percent.
Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6 percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited and
a 100 percent interest in ExxonMobil Canada Properties. Kearl is comprised of
six oil sands leases covering about 48 thousand acres in the Athabasca oil
sands deposit.   

  The Kearl project is located approximately 40 miles
north of Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada. Bitumen is extracted from oil sands
produced from open-pit mining operations, and processed through a bitumen
extraction and froth treatment train. The product, a blend of bitumen and
diluent, is shipped to our refineries and to other third parties. Diluent is
natural gas condensate or other light hydrocarbons added to the crude bitumen
to facilitate transportation by pipeline. Production from the initial
development began in April 2013 and production ramp-up continued throughout the
remainder of the year. During 2013, average net production at Kearl was 21
thousand barrels per day. The Kearl Expansion project was 72 percent complete
at the end of 2013.   

5. Present Activities

A. Wells Drilling    

B. Review of Principal Ongoing
Activities    

    UNITED STATES     

  ExxonMobil s year-end 2013 acreage holdings totaled 15.1 million
net acres, of   which 2.0 million   net acres were offshore. ExxonMobil was active in areas
onshore and offshore in the lower 48 states and in Alaska  .    

  During 2013, 1080.3 net exploration and development wells were
completed in the inland lower 48 states. Development activities focused on the
Bakken oil play in North Dakota and Montana, the San Joaquin Basin of
California, the Woodford and Caney Shales in the Ardmore, Marietta and Arkoma
basins of Oklahoma, the Permian Basin of West Texas and New Mexico, the
Marcellus Shale of Pennsylvania and West Virginia, the Haynesville Shale of
Texas and Louisiana, the Barnett Shale of North Texas, and the Fayetteville
Shale of Arkansas.   

  ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Gulf of Mexico at year-end
2013 was 1.9 million acres. A   total of
2.5     net exploration
and development wells were completed during the year. Development activities
continued on the deepwater Hadrian South project and the non-operated Lucius
project  . The Heidelberg and Julia Phase 1 projects were funded
in 2013.   

13       

Participation in Alaska
production and development continued with a total of 17.1 net development wells
completed. Development activities continued on the Point Thomson project.   

    CANADA / SOUTH AMERICA          

   Canada    

   Oil
and Gas Operations:    ExxonMobil's year-end 2013 acreage holdings totaled
5.6 million net acres, of which 1.0 million net acres were offshore. A total of
86.2 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. Celtic Exploration Ltd. was acquired in 2013.   

   In Situ Bitumen Operations:        ExxonMobil's
year-end 2013 in situ bitumen acreage holdings totaled 0.7 million net onshore
acres. A total of 120.0 net development wells were completed during the year.  In 2013, ExxonMobil acquired an interest in the
Clyden oil sands lease.  

   Argentina    

  ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 0.9 million onshore
acres at year-end 2013, and there were 2.0 net exploration and development
wells completed during the year.   

   Venezuela    

  ExxonMobil s acreage holdings and assets were
expropriated in 2007. Refer to the relevant portion of  Note 16: Litigation and
Other Contingencies  of the Financial Section of this report for additional
information.   

    EUROPE     

   Germany    

  A total of 4.9 million net onshore acres and 0.1
million net offshore acres were held by ExxonMobil at year-end 2013, with 5.3
net exploration and development wells completed during the year.   

   Netherlands    

  ExxonMobil s net interest in licenses totaled
approximately 1.5 million acres at year-end 2013, of which 1.2 million acres
are onshore. A total of 4.2 net exploration and development wells were
completed during the year.   

   Norway    

  ExxonMobil's net interest in licenses at year-end 2013
totaled approximately 0.7 million acres, all offshore. A total of 7.5 net
exploration and development wells were completed in 2013.   

   United Kingdom    

  ExxonMobil s net interest in licenses at year-end 2013
totaled approximately 0.4 million acres, all offshore. A total of 2.7 net
development wells were completed during the year.   

    AFRICA     

   Angola    

  ExxonMobil s year-end 2013 acreage holdings totaled
0.4 million net offshore acres and 3.4     net
development wells were completed during the year. On Block 15, project
activities are under way at Kizomba Satellites Phase 2. On the non-operated
Block 17, work continued on the Cravo-Lirio-Orquidea-Violeta project.   

   Chad    

  ExxonMobil s net year-end 2013 acreage
holdings consisted of 46 thousand onshore acres, with 22.0 net development
wells completed during the year  .    

   Equatorial Guinea    

  ExxonMobil s acreage totaled 0.1 million net offshore
acres at year-end 2013.   

14       

Nigeria    

  ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 0.9 million offshore
acres at year-end 2013, with 8.2 net exploration and development wells completed
during the year. In 2013, ExxonMobil continued development drilling on the Satellite
Field Development Phase 1 and the deepwater Usan projects. The Erha North Phase 2 deepwater project was funded
in 2013.    

    ASIA     

   Azerbaijan    

  At year-end 2013, ExxonMobil s net acreage
totaled 9 thousand offshore acres. A total of 0.7 net development wells were
completed during the year. Work continued on the Chirag Oil project  .    

   Indonesia    

  At year-end 2013, ExxonMobil
had 2.3 million net acres, 1.3 million net acres offshore and 1.0 million net
acres onshore. There was 0.4 net exploration well completed during the year.      

   Iraq    

  At year-end 2013, ExxonMobil s onshore
acreage was 0.9 million net acres. A total of 23.2 net development wells
were completed at the West Qurna Phase I oil field during the year. Field
rehabilitation activities continued during 2013, and     across
the life of this project will include drilling of new wells, working over of
existing wells, and optimization and debottlenecking of existing facilities.
ExxonMobil sold a partial interest in West Qurna Phase I in 2013. In the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, ExxonMobil initiated
a seismic program and exploration drilling in 2013.    

   Kazakhstan    

  ExxonMobil s net acreage  
totaled 0.1 million acres onshore and 0.2 million acres offshore at year-end
2013. A total of 1.3 net development wells were completed during 2013. Working
with our partners, construction of the initial phase of the Kashagan field
continued, and the project started up in 2013.      

   Malaysia    

  ExxonMobil has interests in production sharing
contracts covering 0.4 million net acres offshore at year-end 2013.  During the
year, a total of 5.0 net development wells were completed. Development
activities continued on the Tapis and Damar projects and the Telok project
started up in 2013.   

   Qatar    

  Through our joint ventures with Qatar Petroleum,
ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 65 thousand acres offshore at year-end 2013.
During the year, a total of 0.7 net development wells were completed.
ExxonMobil participated in 61.8 million tonnes per year gross liquefied natural
gas capacity and 2.0 billion cubic feet per day of flowing gas capacity at year
end. Development activities continued on the Barzan project.   

   Republic of Yemen    

  ExxonMobil's net acreage in the Republic of Yemen
production sharing areas totaled 10 thousand acres onshore at year-end 2013.    

   Russia    

  ExxonMobil s net acreage holdings in Sakhalin at
year-end 2013 were 85 thousand acres, all offshore. A total of 0.9 net
development wells were completed. Development activities continued on the
Arkutun-Dagi project during 2013.   

      At year-end
2013, ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Rosneft joint venture agreements for the
Kara and Black Seas was 11.3 million acres, all offshore. ExxonMobil and
Rosneft formed a joint venture to evaluate the development of tight-oil
reserves in western Siberia in 2013.   

Thailand

ExxonMobil s net onshore acreage in Thailand
concessions totaled 21 thousand acres at year-end 2013.   

15       

United Arab Emirates    

  ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Abu Dhabi offshore
Upper Zakum oil concession was 81 thousand acres at year-end 2013. The Upper Zakum 750 project was funded in 2013.   

  ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Abu Dhabi onshore oil
concession was 0.5 million acres at year-end 2013, of which 0.4 million acres
are onshore.  During the year, a total of 6.7 net exploration and development
wells were completed. The onshore oil
concession expired in January 2014.   

    AUSTRALIA / OCEANIA     

   Australia    

  ExxonMobil s year-end 2013 acreage holdings totaled
1.7 million net acres, of which 1.6 million net acres were offshore. During the
year, a total of 1.9 net exploration and development wells were completed. The
Kipper Tuna and Turrum projects started up during 2013.    

  Project construction activity for the co-venturer
operated Gorgon liquefied natural gas (LNG) project progressed in 2013. The
project consists of a subsea infrastructure for offshore production and
transportation of the gas, and a 15.6 million tonnes per year LNG facility and
a 280 million cubic feet per day domestic gas plant located on Barrow Island,
Western Australia.   

   Papua New Guinea    

  A   total
of 1.1 million net onshore acres were held by ExxonMobil at year-end 2013, with
1.3 net development wells completed during the year. Work continued on the
Papua New Guinea (PNG) LNG project. The project consists of conditioning
facilities in the southern PNG Highlands, a 6.9 million tonnes per year     LNG facility near Port Moresby and approximately
434 miles of onshore and offshore pipelines.

WORLDWIDE EXPLORATION     

  At year-end 2013, exploration activities were under
way in several areas in which ExxonMobil has no established production
operations and thus are not included above.  A total of 29.1 million net acres
were held at year-end 2013, and 1.4     net
exploration wells were completed during the year in these countries.   

6.
Delivery Commitments    

  ExxonMobil
sells crude oil and natural gas from its producing operations under a variety
of contractual obligations, some of which may specify the delivery of a fixed
and determinable quantity for periods longer than one year. ExxonMobil also
enters into natural gas sales contracts where the source of the natural gas
used to fulfill the contract can be a combination of our own production and the
spot market. Worldwide, we are contractually committed to deliver approximately
2,800 billion cubic feet of natural gas for the period from 2014 through 2016.
We expect to fulfill the majority of these delivery commitments with production
from our proved developed reserves. Any remaining commitments will be fulfilled
with production from our proved undeveloped reserves and spot market purchases
as necessary.  

16       

7. Oil and Gas
Properties, Wells, Operations and Acreage    

   A. Gross and Net Productive Wells    

There were 37,661 gross and 31,823 net operated wells
at year-end 2013 and 37,228 gross and 31,264 net operated wells at year-end 2012.
The number of wells with multiple completions was 1,531 gross in 2013 and 1,647
gross in 2012.   

  Note:  Year-end 2012 well counts for gross and net gas
wells in Canada/South America were restated.  

17       

B. Gross and Net
Developed Acreage        

(1)   Includes developed acreage in
South America of 214 gross and 109 net thousands of acres for 2013 and 618
gross and 202 net thousand acres for 2012.    

  Separate acreage data for oil and gas are not
maintained because, in many instances, both are produced from the same acreage.

C. Gross and Net
Undeveloped Acreage   

(1)   Includes undeveloped acreage in
South America of 8,795 gross and 4,674 net thousands of acres for 2013 and 8,412
gross and 4,484 net thousands of acres for 2012.    

  ExxonMobil s investment in developed and undeveloped
acreage is comprised of numerous concessions, blocks and leases. The terms and
conditions under which the Corporation maintains exploration and/or production
rights to the acreage are property-specific, contractually defined and vary
significantly from property to property. Work programs are designed to ensure
that the exploration potential of any property is fully evaluated before
expiration. In some instances, the Corporation may elect to relinquish acreage
in advance of the contractual expiration date if the evaluation process is
complete and there is not a business basis for extension. In cases where
additional time may be required to fully evaluate acreage, the Corporation has
generally been successful in obtaining extensions. The scheduled expiration of
leases and concessions for undeveloped acreage over the next three years is not
expected to have a material adverse impact on the Corporation.   

18       

D. Summary of Acreage
Terms    

    UNITED STATES     

  Oil and gas leases have an exploration period ranging
from one to ten years, and a production period that normally remains in effect
until production ceases. Under certain circumstances, a lease may be held
beyond its exploration term even if production has not commenced. In some
instances, a  fee interest  is acquired where both the surface and the
underlying mineral interests are owned outright.   

    CANADA / SOUTH AMERICA     

   Canada    

  Exploration licenses or leases in onshore areas are
acquired for varying periods of time with renewals or extensions possible.
These licenses or leases entitle the holder to continue existing licenses or
leases upon completing specified work. In general, these license and lease
agreements are held as long as there is production on the licenses and leases.
Exploration licenses in offshore eastern Canada and the Beaufort Sea are held
by work commitments of various amounts and rentals. They are valid for a
maximum term of nine years. Production licenses in the offshore are valid for
25 years, with rights of extension for continued production. Significant
discovery licenses in the offshore, relating to currently undeveloped
discoveries, do not have a definite term.   

   Argentina    

  The federal onshore concession terms in Argentina are
up to four years for the initial exploration period, up to three years for the
second exploration period and up to two years for the third exploration period.
A 50-percent relinquishment is required after each exploration period. An
extension after the third exploration period is possible for up to five years.
The total production term is 25 years with a ten-year extension possible, once
a field has been developed. Argentine provinces are entitled to modify the
concession terms granted within their territories. The concession terms of the
exploration permits granted by Neuquen Province are up to six years for the
initial exploration period, up to four years for the second exploration period
and up to three years for the third exploration period depending on the
classification of the area. An extension after the third exploration period is
possible for up to one year.   

    EUROPE     

   Germany    

  Exploration concessions are granted for an initial
maximum period of five years, with an unlimited number of extensions of up to
three years each. Extensions are subject to specific, minimum work commitments.
Production licenses are normally granted for 20 to 25 years with multiple
possible extensions as long as there is production on the license.   

   Netherlands    

  Under the Mining Law, effective January 1, 2003,
exploration and production licenses for both onshore and offshore areas are
issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license. The term is based on
the period of time necessary to perform the activities for which the license is
issued. License conditions are stipulated in the license and are based on the
Mining Law.   

  Production rights granted prior to January 1, 2003,
remain subject to their existing terms, and differ slightly for onshore and
offshore areas. Onshore production licenses issued prior to 1988 were
indefinite; from 1988 they were issued for a period as explicitly defined in
the license, ranging from 35 to 45 years. Offshore production licenses issued
before 1976 were issued for a fixed period of 40 years; from 1976 they were again
issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license, ranging from 15 to 40
years.   

   Norway    

  Licenses issued prior to 1972 were for an initial
period of six years and an extension period of 40 years, with relinquishment of
at least one-fourth of the original area required at the end of the sixth year
and another one-fourth at the end of the ninth year. Licenses issued between
1972 and 1997 were for an initial period of up to six years (with extension of
the initial period of one year at a time up to ten years after 1985), and an
extension period of up to 30 years, with relinquishment of at least one-half of
the original area required at the end of the initial period. Licenses issued
after July 1, 1997, have an initial period of up to ten years and a normal
extension period of up to 30 years or in special cases of up to 50 years, and
with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the
end of the initial period.  

19       

United Kingdom    

  Acreage terms are fixed by the government and are
periodically changed. For example, many of the early licenses issued under the
first four licensing rounds provided for an initial term of six years with
relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area at the end of the
initial term, subject to extension for a further 40 years. At the end of any
such 40-year term, licenses may continue in producing areas until cessation of
production; or licenses may continue in development areas for periods agreed on
a case-by-case basis until they become producing areas; or licenses terminate
in all other areas. The licensing regime was last updated in 2002, and the
majority of licenses issued have an initial term of four years with a second
term extension of four years and a final term of 18 years with a mandatory
relinquishment of 50 percent of the acreage after the initial term and of all
acreage that is not covered by a development plan at the end of the second term.

AFRICA     

   Angola    

  Exploration and production activities are governed by
production sharing agreements with an initial exploration term of four years
and an optional second phase of two to three years. The production period is
for 25 years, and agreements generally provide for a negotiated extension.   

   Chad    

  Exploration permits are issued for a period of five
years, and are renewable for one or two further five-year periods. The terms
and conditions of the permits, including relinquishment obligations, are
specified in a negotiated convention. The production term is for 30 years and
may be extended at the discretion of the government.   

   Equatorial Guinea    

  Exploration and production activities are governed by
production sharing contracts negotiated with the State Ministry of Mines,
Industry and Energy. The exploration periods are for 10 to 15 years with limited
relinquishments in the absence of commercial discoveries. The production period
for crude oil is 30 years, while the production period for gas is 50 years.
Under the Hydrocarbons Law enacted in 2006, the exploration terms for new
production sharing contracts are four to five years with a maximum of two
one-year extensions, unless the Ministry agrees otherwise.   

   Nigeria    

  Exploration and production activities in the deepwater
offshore areas are typically governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs) with
the national oil company, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC).
NNPC holds the underlying Oil Prospecting License (OPL) and any resulting Oil
Mining Lease (OML). The terms of the PSCs are generally 30 years, including a
ten-year exploration period (an initial exploration phase plus one or two
optional periods) covered by an OPL. Upon commercial discovery, an OPL may be
converted to an OML. Partial relinquishment is required under the PSC at the
end of the ten-year exploration period, and OMLs have a 20-year production
period that may be extended.   

  Some exploration activities are carried out in
deepwater by joint ventures with local companies holding interests in an OPL.
OPLs in deepwater offshore areas are valid for ten years and are non-renewable,
while in all other areas the licenses are for five years and also are
non-renewable. Demonstrating a commercial discovery is the basis for conversion
of an OPL to an OML.   

  OMLs granted prior to the 1969 Petroleum Act (i.e.,
under the Mineral Oils Act 1914, repealed by the 1969 Petroleum Act) were for
30 years onshore and 40 years in offshore areas and have been renewed,
effective December 1, 2008, for a further period of 20 years, with a further
renewal option of 20 years. Operations under these pre-1969 OMLs are conducted
under a joint venture agreement with NNPC rather than a PSC. In 2000, a
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was executed defining commercial terms
applicable to existing joint venture oil production. The MOU may be terminated
on one calendar year s notice.   

  OMLs granted under the 1969 Petroleum Act, which
include all deepwater OMLs, have a maximum term of 20 years without distinction
for onshore or offshore location and are renewable, upon 12 months  written
notice, for another period of 20 years. OMLs not held by NNPC are also subject
to a mandatory 50-percent relinquishment after the first ten years of their
duration.   

20       

ASIA      

   Azerbaijan    

  The production sharing agreement (PSA) for the
development of the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli field is established for an initial
period of 30 years starting from the PSA execution date in 1994.   

  Other exploration and production activities are
governed by PSAs negotiated with the national oil company of Azerbaijan. The
exploration period consists of three or four years with the possibility of a
one to three-year extension. The production period, which includes development,
is for 25 years or 35 years with the possibility of one or two five-year
extensions.   

   Indonesia    

  Exploration and production activities in Indonesia are
generally governed by cooperation contracts, usually in the form of a
production sharing contract (PSC), negotiated with BPMIGAS, a government agency
established in 2002 to manage upstream oil and gas activities. In 2012, Indonesia s
Constitutional Court ruled certain articles of law relating to BPMIGAS to be
unconstitutional, but stated that all existing PSCs signed with BPMIGAS should
remain in force until their expiry, and the functions and duties previously
performed by BPMIGAS are to be carried out by the relevant Ministry of the
Government of Indonesia until the promulgation of a new oil and gas law. The
current PSCs have an exploration period of six years, which can be extended up
to 10 years, and an exploitation period of 20 years. PSCs generally require the
contractor to relinquish 10 percent to 20 percent of the contract area after
three years and generally allow the contractor to retain no more than 50
percent to 80 percent of the original contract area after six years, depending
on the acreage and terms.   

   Iraq    

  Development and production activities in the
state-owned oil and gas fields are governed by contracts with regional oil
companies of the Iraqi Ministry of Oil. An ExxonMobil affiliate entered into a
contract with South Oil Company of the Iraqi Ministry of Oil for the rights to
participate in the development and production activities of the West Qurna
Phase I oil and gas field effective March 1, 2010. The term of the
contract is 20 years with the right to extend for five years. The contract
provides for cost recovery plus per-barrel fees for incremental production
above specified levels.   

  Exploration and production activities in the Kurdistan
Region of Iraq are governed by production sharing contracts negotiated with the
regional government of Kurdistan in 2011. The exploration term is for five
years with the possibility of two-year extensions. The production period is 20
years with the right to extend for five years.   

   Kazakhstan    

  Onshore exploration and production activities are
governed by the production license, exploration license and joint venture
agreements negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. Existing production
operations have a 40-year production period that commenced in 1993.   

  Offshore exploration and production activities are
governed by a production sharing agreement negotiated with the Republic of
Kazakhstan. The exploration period is six years followed by separate appraisal
periods for each discovery. The production period for each discovery, which includes
development, is for 20 years from the date of declaration of commerciality with
the possibility of two ten-year extensions.   

   Malaysia    

  Exploration and production activities are governed by
production sharing contracts (PSCs) negotiated with the national oil company.
The more recent PSCs governing exploration and production activities have an
overall term of 24 to 38 years, depending on water depth, with possible
extensions to the exploration and/or development periods. The exploration
period is five to seven years with the possibility of extensions, after which
time areas with no commercial discoveries will be deemed relinquished. The
development period is from four to six years from commercial discovery, with
the possibility of extensions under special circumstances. Areas from which
commercial production has not started by the end of the development period will
be deemed relinquished if no extension is granted. All extensions are subject
to the national oil company s prior written approval. The total production
period is 15 to 25 years from first commercial lifting, not to exceed the
overall term of the contract.   

  In 2008, the Company reached agreement with the
national oil company for a new PSC, which was subsequently signed in 2009.
Under the new PSC, from 2008 until March 31, 2012, the Company was entitled to
undertake new development and production activities in oil fields under an
existing PSC, subject to new minimum work and spending commitments, including
an enhanced oil recovery project in one of the oil fields. When the existing
PSC expired on March 31, 2012, the producing fields covered by the existing PSC
automatically became part of the new PSC, which has a 25-year duration from
April 2008.   

21       

Qatar     

  The State of Qatar grants gas production development
project rights to develop and supply gas from the offshore North Field to
permit the economic development and production of gas reserves sufficient to
satisfy the gas and LNG sales obligations of these projects.   

   Republic of Yemen    

  The Jannah production sharing agreement has a
development period extending 20 years from first commercial declaration, which
was made in June 1995.   

   Russia    

  Terms for ExxonMobil s Sakhalin acreage are fixed by
the production sharing agreement (PSA) that became effective in 1996 between
the Russian government and the Sakhalin-1 consortium, of which ExxonMobil is
the operator. The term of the PSA is 20 years from the Declaration of
Commerciality, which would be 2021. The term may be extended thereafter in
ten-year increments as specified in the PSA.  

  Exploration and production activities in the Kara and
Black Seas are governed by joint venture agreements concluded with Rosneft in
2013 that cover certain of Rosneft s offshore licenses. The Kara Sea licenses
extend through 2040 and include an exploration period through 2020, development
plan submission within eight years of a discovery and development activities
within five years of plan approval.  The Black Sea exploration license extends
through 2017 and a discovery is the basis for obtaining a license for
production.   

   Thailand    

  The Petroleum Act of 1971 allows production under
ExxonMobil s concession for 30 years with a ten-year extension at terms
generally prevalent at the time.   

   United Arab Emirates    

  Exploration and production activities for the major
onshore oil fields in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi were governed by a 75-year oil
concession agreement executed in 1939, which expired in January 2014. An
interest in the development and production activities of the Upper Zakum field,
a major offshore field, was acquired effective as of January 2006, for a term
expiring March 2026, and in 2013 the governing agreements were extended to 2041.

AUSTRALIA/OCEANIA     

   Australia    

  Exploration and production activities conducted
offshore in Commonwealth waters are governed by Federal legislation.
Exploration permits are granted for an initial term of six years with two
possible five-year renewal periods. Retention leases may be granted for
resources that are not commercially viable at the time of application, but are
expected to become commercially viable within 15 years. These are granted for
periods of five years and renewals may be requested. Prior to July 1998,
production licenses were granted initially for 21 years, with a further renewal
of 21 years and thereafter  indefinitely , i.e., for the life of the field.
Effective from July 1998, new production licenses are granted  indefinitely .
In each case, a production license may be terminated if no production
operations have been carried on for five years.   

   Papua New Guinea    

  Exploration and production activities are governed by
the Oil and Gas Act. Petroleum Prospecting licenses are granted for an initial
term of six years with a five-year extension possible (an additional extension
of three years is possible in certain circumstances). Generally, a 50-percent
relinquishment of the license area is required at the end of the initial
six-year term, if extended. Petroleum Development licenses are granted for an
initial 25-year period. An extension of up to 20 years may be granted at the
Minister s discretion. Petroleum Retention licenses may be granted for gas
resources that are not commercially viable at the time of application, but may become
commercially viable within the maximum possible retention time of 15 years.
Petroleum Retention licenses are granted for five-year terms, and may be
extended, at the Minister s discretion, twice for the maximum retention time of
15 years. Extensions of Petroleum Retention licenses may be for periods of less
than one year, renewable annually, if the Minister considers at the time of
extension that the resources could become commercially viable in less than five
years.   

22       

Information with
regard to the Downstream segment follows:    

  ExxonMobil s Downstream segment manufactures and sells
petroleum products. The refining and supply operations encompass a global
network of manufacturing plants, transportation systems, and distribution
centers that provide a range of fuels, lubricants and other products and
feedstocks to our customers around the world.   

   Refining Capacity At
Year-End 2013     (1)    

(1)   Capacity data is based on
100 percent of rated refinery process unit stream-day capacities under
normal operating conditions, less the impact of shutdowns for regular repair
and maintenance activities, averaged over an extended period of time.    

   (2)   Thousands of barrels per day
(KBD). ExxonMobil share reflects 100 percent of atmospheric distillation
capacity in operations of ExxonMobil and majority-owned subsidiaries. For
companies owned 50 percent or less, ExxonMobil share is the greater of
ExxonMobil s equity interest or that portion of distillation capacity normally
available to ExxonMobil.    

23       

The
marketing operations sell products and services throughout the world through
our    Exxon   ,    Esso     and    Mobil     brands.  

   Retail
Sites At Year-End 2013   

24       

Information with
regard to the Chemical segment follows:    

  ExxonMobil s Chemical segment manufactures and sells
petrochemicals. The Chemical business supplies olefins, polyolefins, aromatics,
and a wide variety of other petrochemicals.   

   Chemical Complex Capacity At Year-End 2013     (1)(2)          

(1)   Capacity for ethylene,
polyethylene, polypropylene and paraxylene in millions of metric tons per year.

(2)   Capacity reflects 100 percent
for operations of ExxonMobil and majority-owned subsidiaries. For companies
owned 50 percent or less, capacity is ExxonMobil s interest.    

25       

Item 3.       Legal Proceedings   

  In November 2013, the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality (TCEQ) contacted Exxon Mobil Corporation (the  Corporation )
concerning alleged violations of the Texas Clean Air Act, implementing
regulations and the applicable new source review permit in connection with
exceedances of volatile organic compound emissions from Tank 22 at the
Corporation s King Ranch Gas Plant.  TCEQ is seeking a civil penalty in
excess of $100,000 along with certain corrective action.  The Corporation
is working with TCEQ to resolve the matter.  

  Regarding the June 27, 2013, Administrative Consent
Agreement between the North Dakota Department of Health (NDDOH) and XTO Energy
Inc. (XTO) resolving the air enforcement matter previously reported in the
Corporation s Forms 10-Q for the first and second quarters of 2013, pursuant to
the terms of the Administrative Consent Agreement, during the fourth quarter of
2013, XTO provided the NDDOH with an
updated list of well sites on newly acquired assets with air emission control
issues. On November 12, 2013, XTO paid an additional penalty assessment of
$183,400 with respect to those sites.   

  Regarding the criminal charges filed against XTO by
the Pennsylvania Attorney General s Office pertaining to XTO s Marquardt Well
Site in Penn Township, Pennsylvania, reported most recently in the
Corporation s Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2013, on January 2, 2014, a
Pennsylvania state magistrate ruled that the Attorney General s Office had
presented sufficient evidence for the charges to proceed to trial in the
Pennsylvania Court of Common Pleas.  At the trial, XTO will have an opportunity
to present its full defense to the charges, which it believes are unwarranted.  

  Regarding the settlement of matters between the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality
(LDEQ) and ExxonMobil Refining and Supply Company and ExxonMobil Chemical
Company, both divisions of the Corporation, involving ExxonMobil facilities in
Baton Rouge, Louisiana, last reported in the Corporation s Form 10-Q for the
third quarter of 2013, during the fourth quarter of 2013, the public comment
period on the proposed settlement ended, and the Louisiana Attorney General
issued his concurrence with regard to the settlement terms. The parties
executed the final documents in January 2014, thereby resolving the matters
covered by the settlement. The settlement terms include payment of a $300,000
penalty, an agreement to complete certain on-site improvement projects valued
at $1,000,000, Beneficial Environmental Projects valued at $1,029,000 and a
Stipulated Penalty Agreement to address any future environmental
non-compliance.  

  On December 11, 2013,  the TCEQ Commissioner s Court accepted and signed the
Agreed Order settling the enforcement action, including a penalty of $126,250, concerning
emission events at ExxonMobil Oil Corporation s (EMOC) Beaumont Refinery
previously reported in the Corporation s Forms 10-Q for the first and third
quarters of 2013.  

  Regarding the complaint
against EMOC filed by the Attorney General for the State of New York alleging
contamination of soil and groundwater at a former Mobil petroleum terminal at
Lighthouse Point in Ogdensburg, New York, previously reported in the
Corporation s Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2011, the parties reached a
settlement agreement that was entered into the court record on November 14,
2013. On December 16, 2013, the parties signed the agreement, and EMOC made a
payment to the State of $8.05 million, pursuant to the agreement s terms. 

Refer to the relevant portions of  Note 16:
Litigation and Other Contingencies  of the Financial Section of this report for
additional information on legal proceedings.   

Item 4.       MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES   

  Not applicable.   

_______________________  

26       

Executive
Officers of the Registrant [pursuant to Instruction 3 to Regulation S-K,
Item 401(b)]   

Rex W. Tillerson   

Chairman of the Board   

Held current title since:  

January
  1, 2006  

Age: 61  

Mr. Rex W. Tillerson became a Director and
  President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on March 1, 2004. He became
  Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer on January 1, 2006. He
  still holds these positions as of this filing date.  

Mark W. Albers   

Senior Vice President   

Held current title since:  

April
  1, 2007  

Age: 57  

Mr. Mark W. Albers became Senior Vice
  President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on April 1, 2007, a position
  he still holds as of this filing date.  

Michael J. Dolan   

Senior
  Vice President   

Held current title since:  

April
  1, 2008  

Age: 60  

Mr. Michael J. Dolan became Senior Vice
  President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on April 1, 2008, a position
  he still holds as of this filing date.  

Andrew P. Swiger   

Senior
  Vice President   

Held current title since:  

April
  1, 2009  

Age: 57  

Mr. Andrew P. Swiger was President of
  ExxonMobil Gas   Power Marketing Company and Vice President of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation October 1, 2006   March 31, 2009. He
  became Senior Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on
  April 1, 2009, a position he still holds as of this filing date.  

S. Jack Balagia   

Vice President and General Counsel   

Held current title since:  

March
  1, 2010  

Age: 62  

Mr. S. Jack Balagia was Assistant General
  Counsel of Exxon Mobil Corporation April 1, 2004  
  March 1, 2010. He became Vice President and General Counsel of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation on March 1, 2010, positions he still holds as of
  this filing date.   

William M. Colton   

Vice President   Corporate
  Strategic Planning   

Held current title since:  

February
  1, 2009  

Age: 60  

Mr. William M. Colton was Assistant
  Treasurer of Exxon Mobil Corporation January 25, 2006  
  January 31, 2009. He became Vice President   Corporate Strategic
  Planning of Exxon Mobil Corporation on February 1, 2009, a position
  he still holds as of this filing date.  

27       

Neil W. Duffin   

President, ExxonMobil Development Company    

Held current title since:  

April
  13, 2007  

Age: 57  

Mr. Neil W.
  Duffin became President of ExxonMobil Development Company on
  April 13, 2007, a position he still holds as of this filing date.  

Robert S. Franklin   

Vice President   

Held current title since:  

May
  1, 2009  

Age: 56  

Mr. Robert S.
  Franklin was Vice President, Europe/Russia/Caspian of ExxonMobil Production
  Company April 1, 2008   May 1, 2009. He was Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation
  and President, ExxonMobil Upstream Ventures May 1, 2009   February 28, 2013. 
  He became President of ExxonMobil Gas   Power Marketing Company and Vice
  President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on March 1, 2013, positions he still
  holds as of this filing date.  

Stephen M. Greenlee   

Vice President   

Held current title since:  

September
  1, 2010  

Age: 56  

Mr. Stephen M. Greenlee was Vice President
  of ExxonMobil Exploration Company June 1, 2004   June 1, 2009.
  He was President of ExxonMobil Upstream Research Company
  June 1, 2009   August 31, 2010. He became President of
  ExxonMobil Exploration Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation
  on September 1, 2010, positions he still holds as of this filing
  date.  

Alan J. Kelly   

Vice President   

Held current title since:  

December
  1, 2007  

Age: 56  

Mr. Alan J. Kelly became President of
  ExxonMobil Lubricants   Petroleum Specialties Company and Vice
  President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on December 1, 2007. On
  February 1, 2012, the businesses of ExxonMobil Lubricants  
  Petroleum Specialties Company and ExxonMobil Fuels Marketing Company were
  consolidated and Mr. Kelly became President of the combined ExxonMobil Fuels,
  Lubricants   Specialties Marketing Company and Vice President of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation, positions he still holds as of this filing date.  

Patrick T. Mulva   

Vice President and Controller   

Held current title since:  

February
  1, 2002 (Vice President)  
    July
  1, 2004 (Controller)  

Age: 62  

Mr. Patrick T. Mulva became Vice President
  of Exxon Mobil Corporation on February 1, 2002 and Controller of Exxon Mobil
  Corporation on July 1, 2004, positions he still holds as of this
  filing date.  

Stephen D. Pryor   

Vice President    

Held current title since:  

December
  1, 2004  

Age: 64  

Mr. Stephen D. Pryor became Vice President
  of Exxon Mobil Corporation on December 1, 2004 and President of ExxonMobil
  Chemical Company on April 1, 2008, positions he still holds as of
  this filing date.  

28       

David S. Rosenthal   

Vice President - Investor Relations and Secretary   

Held current title since:  

October 1,
  2008  

Age: 57  

Mr. David S. Rosenthal became Vice
  President   Investor Relations and Secretary of Exxon Mobil Corporation on
  October 1, 2008, positions he still holds as of this filing date.  

James M. Spellings, Jr.   

Vice President and General Tax Counsel   

Held current title since:  

March
  1, 2010  

Age: 52  

Mr. James M. Spellings, Jr. was Associate
  General Tax Counsel of Exxon Mobil Corporation April 1, 2007  
  March 1, 2010. He became Vice President and General Tax Counsel of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation on March 1, 2010, positions he still holds as of this
  filing date.  

Thomas R. Walters   

Vice President   

Held current title since:  

April
  1, 2009  

Age: 59  

Mr. Thomas R. Walters was Executive Vice President
  of ExxonMobil Development Company April 13, 2007   April 1, 2009. He was
  President of ExxonMobil Gas   Power Marketing Company and Vice President
  of Exxon Mobil Corporation April 1, 2009   February 28, 2013.  He became
  President of ExxonMobil Production Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil
  Corporation on March 1, 2013, positions he still holds as of this filing
  date.  

Darren W. Woods   

Vice President    

Held current title since:  

August
  1, 2012  

Age: 49  

Mr. Darren W. Woods was Director, Refining
  Europe/Africa/Middle East, ExxonMobil Refining   Supply Company    
  February 1, 2008   June 30, 2010. He was Vice President,
  Supply   Transportation, ExxonMobil Refining   Supply Company
  July 1, 2010   July 31, 2012.  He became President of
  ExxonMobil Refining   Supply Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil
  Corporation on August 1, 2012, positions he still holds as of this
  filing date.  

Officers are generally
elected by the Board of Directors at its meeting on the day of each annual
election of directors, with each such officer serving until a successor has
been elected and qualified.   

29       

PART II   

   Item 5.       Market
for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases
of Equity Securities   

  Reference is made to the  Quarterly Information 
portion of the Financial Section of this report.   

Note 1 - On August 1, 2000, the Corporation announced
its intention to resume purchases of shares of its common stock for the
treasury both to offset shares issued in conjunction with company benefit plans
and programs and to gradually reduce the number of shares outstanding. The
announcement did not specify an amount or expiration date. The Corporation has
continued to purchase shares since this announcement and to report purchased
volumes in its quarterly earnings releases. In its most recent earnings release
dated January 30, 2014, the Corporation stated that first quarter 2014 share
purchases are continuing at a pace consistent with fourth quarter 2013 share reduction
spending of $3 billion. Purchases may be made in both the open market and
through negotiated transactions, and purchases may be increased, decreased or
discontinued at any time without prior notice.   

   Item 6.       Selected Financial Data   

Item 7.       Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

  Reference is made to the section entitled
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  in the Financial Section of this report.   

   Item 7A.    Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

  Reference is made to the section entitled  Market
Risks, Inflation and Other Uncertainties , excluding the part entitled
 Inflation and Other Uncertainties,  in the Financial Section of this report.
All statements other than historical information incorporated in this
Item 7A are forward-looking statements. The actual impact of future market
changes could differ materially due to, among other things, factors discussed
in this report.   

30       

Item 8.
      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

  Reference is made to the following in the Financial
Section of this report:    

Consolidated financial statements, together with the
  report thereon of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP dated February 26, 2014,
  beginning with the section entitled  Report of Independent Registered Public
  Accounting Firm  and continuing through  Note 19: Income, Sales-Based
  and Other Taxes    

Quarterly Information  (unaudited);   

Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration
  and Production Activities  (unaudited); and  

Frequently Used Terms  (unaudited).   

Financial Statement Schedules have been omitted
because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the
consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.  

   Item 9.       Changes
in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

  None.  

   Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures   

   Management s Evaluation of Disclosure
Controls and Procedures    

  As indicated in the certifications in Exhibit 31 of this
report, the Corporation s Chief Executive Officer, Principal Financial Officer
and Principal Accounting Officer have evaluated the Corporation s disclosure
controls and procedures as of December 31, 2013. Based on that evaluation,
these officers have concluded that the Corporation s disclosure controls and
procedures are effective in ensuring that information required to be disclosed
by the Corporation in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is accumulated and communicated to them in a
manner that allows for timely decisions regarding required disclosures and are
effective in ensuring that such information is recorded, processed, summarized
and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange
Commission s rules and forms.   

   Management s Report on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting    

  Management, including the Corporation s Chief
Executive Officer, Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer,
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
the Corporation s financial reporting. Management conducted an evaluation of
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on
criteria established in    Internal Control - Integrated Framework (1992)    issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based
on this evaluation, management concluded that Exxon Mobil Corporation s
internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2013.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, audited the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, as stated in
their report included in the Financial Section of this report.   

   Changes in Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting    

  There were no changes during the Corporation s last
fiscal quarter that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
affect, the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting.   

   Item 9B.     Other Information   

  None.  

31       

PART III   

   Item 10.     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
Governance   

  Incorporated by reference to the following from the
registrant s definitive proxy statement for the 2014 annual meeting of
shareholders (the  2014 Proxy Statement ):   

The section entitled  Election of Directors   

The portion entitled  Section 16(a) Beneficial
  Ownership Reporting Compliance  of the section entitled  Director and
  Executive Officer Stock Ownership   

The portions entitled  Director Qualifications  and
   Code of Ethics and Business Conduct  of the section entitled  Corporate
  Governance  and  

The  Audit Committee  portion and the membership
  table of the portion entitled  Board Meetings and Committees; Annual Meeting
  Attendance  of the section entitled  Corporate Governance .  

Item 11.     Executive Compensation   

  Incorporated by reference to the sections entitled
 Director Compensation,   Compensation Committee Report,   Compensation
Discussion and Analysis  and  Executive Compensation Tables  of the
registrant s 2014 Proxy Statement.   

   Item 12.
    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters   

  The information required under Item 403 of Regulation
S-K is incorporated by reference to the sections  Director and Executive
Officer Stock Ownership  and  Certain Beneficial Owners  of the registrant s 2014
Proxy Statement.   

Equity Compensation Plan Information         

(a)     

(b)    

(c)          

Number of Securities       

Weighted-   

Remaining Available        

Average   

for Future Issuance       

Number of Securities    

Exercise Price    

Under Equity       

to be Issued Upon     

of Outstanding   

Compensation        

Exercise of    

Options,    

Plans [Excluding       

Outstanding Options,     

Warrants and    

Securities Reflected        

Plan
  Category   

Warrants and Rights    

Rights   

in Column (a)]       

Equity
  compensation plans approved by security holders  

17,358,275   

(1)(2)       

-   

117,260,597   

(2)(3)(4)       

Equity
  compensation plans not approved by security holders  

-   

-   

-   

Total  

17,358,275   

-   

117,260,597   

(1)   The number of restricted stock
units to be settled in shares.    

   (2)   Does not include options that
ExxonMobil assumed in the 2010 merger with XTO Energy Inc. At year-end 2013,
the number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options
under XTO Energy Inc. plans was 1,505,820, and the weighted-average exercise
price of such options was $85.57. No additional awards may be made under those
plans.    

   (3)   Available shares can be granted
in the form of restricted stock, options, or other stock-based awards. Includes
116,619,397 shares available for award under the 2003 Incentive Program and 641,200
shares available for award under the 2004 Non-Employee Director Restricted
Stock Plan.    

   (4)   Under the 2004 Non-Employee
Director Restricted Stock Plan approved by shareholders in May 2004, and the
related standing resolution adopted by the Board, each non-employee director
automatically receives 8,000 shares of restricted stock when first elected to
the Board and, if the director remains in office, an additional 2,500
restricted shares each following year. While on the Board, each non-employee
director receives the same cash dividends on restricted shares as a holder of
regular common stock, but the director is not allowed to sell the shares. The
restricted shares may be forfeited if the director leaves the Board early.    

32       

Item 13.
    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   

  Incorporated by reference to the portions entitled
 Related Person Transactions and Procedures  and  Director Independence  of the
section entitled  Corporate Governance  of the registrant s 2014 Proxy
Statement.   

   Item 14.     Principal Accounting Fees and Services   

  Incorporated by reference to the portion entitled
 Audit Committee  of the section entitled  Corporate Governance  and the
section entitled  Ratification of Independent Auditors  of the registrant s 2014
Proxy Statement.   

PART
IV   

   Item 15.     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules   

  (a)       (1)
and (2) Financial Statements:   

             See Table of Contents of the
Financial Section of this report.   

  (a)       (3)
Exhibits:   

             See Index to Exhibits of this
report.   

33       

FINANCIAL SECTION   

TABLE OF CONTENTS   

Business Profile  

35   

Financial Summary  

36   

Frequently Used Terms  

37   

Quarterly Information  

39   

Management s Discussion and Analysis
  of Financial Condition   
    and Results of Operations  

Functional Earnings  

40   

Forward-Looking Statements  

41   

Overview  

41   

Business Environment and Risk
  Assessment  

41   

Review of 2013 and 2012 Results  

44   

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

48   

Capital and Exploration Expenditures  

53   

Taxes  

53   

Environmental Matters  

54   

Market Risks, Inflation and Other
  Uncertainties  

54   

Critical Accounting Estimates  

56   

Management s Report on Internal
  Control Over Financial Reporting  

60   

Report of Independent Registered
  Public Accounting Firm  

61   

Consolidated Financial Statements  

Statement of Income  

62   

Statement of Comprehensive Income  

63   

Balance Sheet  

64   

Statement of Cash Flows  

65   

Statement of Changes in Equity  

66   

Notes to Consolidated Financial
  Statements  

1. Summary of Accounting
  Policies  

67   

2. Accounting Changes  

69   

3. Miscellaneous
  Financial Information  

69   

4. Other Comprehensive
  Income Information  

70   

5. Cash Flow Information  

71   

6. Additional Working
  Capital Information  

71   

7. Equity Company
  Information  

72   

8. Investments, Advances
  and Long-Term Receivables  

73   

9. Property, Plant and
  Equipment and Asset Retirement Obligations  

74   

10. Accounting for Suspended
  Exploratory Well Costs  

75   

11. Leased Facilities  

77   

12. Earnings Per Share  

77   

13. Financial Instruments and
  Derivatives  

78   

14. Long-Term Debt  

79   

15. Incentive Program  

80   

16. Litigation and Other
  Contingencies  

81   

17. Pension and Other Postretirement
  Benefits  

83   

18. Disclosures about Segments and
  Related Information  

91   

19. Income, Sales-Based and Other
  Taxes  

94   

Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration
  and Production Activities  

97   

Operating Summary  

112  

34       

BUSINESS PROFILE   

See Frequently Used Terms for a
definition and calculation of capital employed and return on average capital
employed.   

(1)        
    Gas converted to
oil-equivalent at 6 million cubic feet = 1 thousand barrels.    

   (2)        
    Prime product sales include
ExxonMobil s share of equity company volumes and finished-product transfers to
the Downstream.   

35       

FINANCIAL SUMMARY    

(1)   Sales and other operating
revenue includes sales-based taxes of $30,589 million for 2013, $32,409 million
for 2012, $33,503 million for 2011, $28,547 million for 2010 and $25,936
million for 2009.    

   (2)   Debt net of cash, excluding
restricted cash.    

   (3)   Regular employees are defined
as active executive, management, professional, technical and wage employees who
work full time or part time for the Corporation and are covered by the
Corporation s benefit plans and programs.    

   (4)   CORS employees are employees of
company-operated retail sites.    

36       

FREQUENTLY USED TERMS    

Listed below are definitions of several of
ExxonMobil s key business and financial performance measures. These definitions
are provided to facilitate understanding of the terms and their calculation.   

   Cash Flow From Operations and Asset Sales    

  Cash flow
from operations and asset sales is the sum of the net cash provided by
operating activities and proceeds associated with sales of subsidiaries,
property, plant and equipment, and sales and returns of investments from the
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. This cash flow reflects the total sources
of cash from both operating the Corporation s assets and from the divesting of
assets. The Corporation employs a long-standing and regular disciplined review
process to ensure that all assets are contributing to the Corporation s
strategic objectives. Assets are divested when they are no longer meeting these
objectives or are worth considerably more to others. Because of the regular
nature of this activity, we believe it is useful for investors to consider
proceeds associated with asset sales together with cash provided by operating
activities when evaluating cash available for investment in the business and
financing activities, including shareholder distributions.   

Capital Employed    

  Capital
employed is a measure of net investment. When viewed from the perspective of
how the capital is used by the businesses, it includes ExxonMobil s net share
of property, plant and equipment and other assets less liabilities, excluding
both short-term and long-term debt. When viewed from the perspective of the
sources of capital employed in total for the Corporation, it includes
ExxonMobil s share of total debt and equity. Both of these views include
ExxonMobil s share of amounts applicable to equity companies, which the
Corporation believes should be included to provide a more comprehensive measure
of capital employed.   

37       

FREQUENTLY USED TERMS    

Return on Average Capital Employed    

  Return on
average capital employed (ROCE) is a performance measure ratio. From the
perspective of the business segments, ROCE is annual business segment earnings
divided by average business segment capital employed (average of beginning and
end-of-year amounts). These segment earnings include ExxonMobil s share of
segment earnings of equity companies, consistent with our capital employed
definition, and exclude the cost of financing. The Corporation s total ROCE is
net income attributable to ExxonMobil excluding the after-tax cost of
financing, divided by total corporate average capital employed. The Corporation
has consistently applied its ROCE definition for many years and views it as the
best measure of historical capital productivity in our capital-intensive,
long-term industry, both to evaluate management s performance and to
demonstrate to shareholders that capital has been used wisely over the long
term. Additional measures, which are more cash flow based, are used to make
investment decisions.   

38       

QUARTERLY INFORMATION    

(1)   Gas converted to oil-equivalent
at 6 million cubic feet = 1 thousand barrels.    

   (2)   Prior periods  data has been
reclassified in certain cases to conform to the 2013 presentation basis.   

   (3)   Includes amounts for sales-based
taxes.    

   (4)   Gross profit equals sales and
other operating revenue less estimated costs associated with products sold.    

   (5)   Computed using the average
number of shares outstanding during each period. The sum of the four quarters
may not add to the full year.    

The price
range of ExxonMobil common stock is as reported on the composite tape of the
several U.S. exchanges where ExxonMobil common stock is traded. The
principal market where ExxonMobil common stock (XOM) is traded is the New York
Stock Exchange, although the stock is traded on other exchanges in and
outside the United States.   

  There were 450,634 registered shareholders of ExxonMobil common stock
at December 31, 2013. At January 31, 2014, the registered
shareholders of ExxonMobil common stock numbered 449,312.   

  On January 29, 2014, the Corporation declared a $0.63 dividend per
common share, payable March 10, 2014.  

39       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

References in this discussion to total corporate
earnings mean net income attributable to ExxonMobil (U.S. GAAP) from the consolidated
income statement. Unless otherwise indicated, references to earnings, Upstream,
Downstream, Chemical and Corporate and Financing segment earnings, and earnings
per share are ExxonMobil s share after excluding amounts attributable to
noncontrolling interests.   

40       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS    

  Statements
in this discussion regarding expectations, plans and future events or
conditions are forward-looking statements. Actual future results, including
demand growth and energy source mix; capacity increases; production growth and
mix; rates of field decline; financing sources; the resolution of contingencies
and uncertain tax positions; environmental and capital expenditures; could
differ materially depending on a number of factors, such as changes in the
supply of and demand for crude oil, natural gas, and petroleum and
petrochemical products; the outcome of commercial negotiations; political or
regulatory events, and other factors discussed herein and in Item 1A. Risk
Factors.   

  The term  project  as used in this report can refer to a variety of
different activities and does not necessarily have the same meaning as in any
government payment transparency reports.  

OVERVIEW    

  The
following discussion and analysis of ExxonMobil s financial results, as well as
the accompanying financial statements and related notes to consolidated
financial statements to which they refer, are the responsibility of the
management of Exxon Mobil Corporation. The Corporation s accounting and
financial reporting fairly reflect its straightforward business model involving
the extracting, manufacturing and marketing of hydrocarbons and
hydrocarbon-based products. The Corporation s business model involves the
production (or purchase), manufacture and sale of physical products, and all
commercial activities are directly in support of the underlying physical
movement of goods.   

  ExxonMobil, with its resource base, financial strength, disciplined
investment approach and technology portfolio, is well-positioned to participate
in substantial investments to develop new energy supplies. While commodity
prices are volatile on a short-term basis and depend on supply and demand,
ExxonMobil s investment decisions are based on our long-term business outlook,
using a disciplined approach in selecting and pursuing the most attractive
investment opportunities. The corporate plan is a fundamental annual management
process that is the basis for setting near-term operating and capital
objectives in addition to providing the longer-term economic assumptions used
for investment evaluation purposes. Volumes are based on individual field
production profiles, which are also updated annually. Price ranges for crude
oil, natural gas, refined products, and chemical products are based on
corporate plan assumptions developed annually by major region and are utilized
for investment evaluation purposes. Potential investment opportunities are
tested over a wide range of economic scenarios to establish the resiliency of
each opportunity. Once investments are made, a reappraisal process is completed
to ensure relevant lessons are learned and improvements are incorporated into
future projects.   

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND RISK ASSESSMENT    

   Long-Term Business Outlook    

  By 2040, the
world s population is projected to grow to approximately 8.8 billion
people, or close to 2 billion more than in 2010. Coincident with this
population increase, the Corporation expects worldwide economic growth to
average close to 3 percent per year. As economies and populations grow,
and as living standards improve for billions of people, the need for energy
will continue to rise.  Even with significant efficiency gains, global energy
demand is projected to rise by about 35 percent from 2010 to 2040. This demand
increase is expected to be concentrated in developing countries (i.e., those
that are not member nations of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development).    

  As expanding prosperity drives global energy demand higher, increasing
use of energy-efficient and lower-emission fuels, technologies and practices will
continue to help significantly reduce energy consumption and emissions per unit
of economic output over time. Substantial efficiency gains are likely in all
key aspects of the world s economy through 2040, affecting energy requirements
for transportation, power generation, industrial applications, and residential
and commercial needs.  

  Energy for transportation   including cars, trucks, ships, trains and
airplanes   is expected to increase by about 40 percent from 2010 to 2040.
The global growth in transportation demand is likely to account for
approximately 70 percent of the growth in liquid fuels demand over this
period. Nearly all the world s transportation fleets will continue to run on
liquid fuels because they are abundant, widely available, easy to transport,
and provide a large quantity of energy in small volumes.  

  Demand for electricity around the world is likely to increase
approximately 90 percent by 2040, led by growth in developing countries.
Consistent with this projection, power generation is expected to remain the
largest and fastest-growing major segment of global energy demand. Meeting the
expected growth in power demand will require a diverse set of energy sources. Natural
gas demand is likely to grow most significantly and become the leading source
of generated electricity by 2040, reflecting the efficiency of gas-fired power
plants.  Today, coal has the largest fuel share in the power sector, but its
share is likely to decline significantly by 2040 as policies are gradually
adopted to reduce environmental impacts including those related to local air
quality and greenhouse gas emissions.  Nuclear power and renewables, led by hydropower
and wind, are also expected to grow significantly over the period.  

41       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

Liquid fuels provide the largest share of global energy
supplies today due to their broad-based availability, affordability and ease of
transportation, distribution and storage to meet consumer needs. By 2040,
global demand for liquid fuels is expected to grow to approximately 112 million
barrels of oil equivalent per day, an increase of about 25 percent
from 2010. This demand will be met by a wide variety of sources. Globally, conventional
crude production will likely decline slightly through 2040. However, this
decline is expected to be more than offset by rising production from a wide
variety of emerging supply sources   including tight oil, deepwater, oil sands,
natural gas liquids and biofuels.  The world s resource base is sufficient to
meet projected demand through 2040 as technology advances continue to expand
the availability of economic supply options. However, access to resources and
timely investments will remain critical to meeting global needs with reliable,
affordable supplies.  

  Natural gas is a versatile fuel, suitable for a wide variety of
applications, and is expected to be the fastest growing major fuel source
through 2040.  Global demand is expected to rise about 65 percent from
2010 to 2040, with demand likely to increase in all major regions of the world.
Helping meet these needs will be significant growth in supplies of
unconventional gas   the natural gas found in shale and other rock formations
that was once considered uneconomic to produce.  About 65 percent of the
growth in natural gas supplies is expected to be from unconventional sources,
which will account for about one-third of global gas supplies by 2040.  Growing
natural gas demand will also stimulate significant growth in the worldwide
liquefied natural gas (LNG) market, which is expected to reach about 15 percent
of global gas demand by 2040.  

  The world s energy mix is highly diverse and will remain so through
2040. Oil is expected to remain the largest source of energy with its share
remaining close to one-third in 2040.  Coal is currently the second largest
source of energy, but it is likely to lose that position to natural gas by
approximately 2025.  The share of natural gas is expected to exceed 25 percent
by 2040, while the share of coal falls to less than 20 percent. Nuclear
power is projected to grow significantly, albeit at a slower pace than
otherwise expected in the aftermath of the Fukushima incident in Japan
following the earthquake and tsunami in March 2011.  Total renewable energy is
likely to reach close to 15 percent of total energy by 2040, with biomass,
hydro and geothermal contributing a combined share of about 11 percent. 
Total energy supplied from wind, solar and biofuels is expected to increase
close to 450 percent from 2010 to 2040, reaching a combined share of about
4 percent of world energy.  

  The Corporation anticipates that the world s available oil and gas
resource base will grow not only from new discoveries, but also from reserve
increases in previously discovered fields.  Technology will underpin these
increases. The cost to develop and supply these resources will be significant.
According to the International Energy Agency, the investment required to meet
total oil and gas energy needs worldwide over the period 2012 2035 will
be close to $19 trillion (measured in 2011 dollars) or close to $800 billion
per year on average.  

  International accords and underlying regional and national regulations covering
greenhouse gas emissions are evolving with uncertain timing and outcome, making
it difficult to predict their business impact.  ExxonMobil includes estimates
of potential costs related to possible public policies covering energy-related
greenhouse gas emissions in its long-term Outlook for Energy, which is used for
assessing the business environment and in its investment evaluations.    

  The information provided in the Long-Term Business Outlook includes
ExxonMobil s internal estimates and forecasts based upon internal data and
analyses as well as publicly available information from external sources
including the International Energy Agency.  

Upstream    

  ExxonMobil
continues to maintain a diverse portfolio of exploration and development
opportunities, which enables the Corporation to be selective, maximizing
shareholder value and mitigating political and technical risks. ExxonMobil s
fundamental Upstream business strategies guide our global exploration,
development, production, and gas and power marketing activities. These
strategies include identifying and selectively capturing the highest quality
opportunities, exercising a disciplined approach to investing and cost
management, developing and applying high-impact technologies, maximizing the
profitability of existing oil and gas production, and capitalizing on growing
natural gas and power markets.   These strategies are underpinned by a
relentless focus on operational excellence, commitment to innovative
technologies, development of our employees, and investment in the communities
within which we operate.   

  As future development projects and drilling activities bring new
production online, the Corporation expects a shift in the geographic mix of its
production volumes between now and 2018. Oil equivalent production from North
America is expected to increase over the next five years based on current
capital activity plans. Currently, this growth area accounts for 32 percent
of the Corporation s production. By 2018, it is expected to generate about 35 percent
of total volumes. The remainder of the Corporation s production is expected to
include contributions from both established operations and new projects around
the globe.   

  In addition to an evolving geographic mix, we expect there will also be
continued change in the type of opportunities from which volumes are produced.
Production from diverse resource types utilizing specialized technologies such
as arctic technology, deepwater drilling and production systems, heavy oil and
oil sands recovery processes, unconventional gas and oil production and      

42       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

LNG is expected to grow from about 45 percent to
around 55 percent of the Corporation s output between now and 2018. We do
not anticipate that the expected change in the geographic mix of production
volumes, and in the types of opportunities from which volumes will be produced,
will have a material impact on the nature and the extent of the risks disclosed
in Item 1A. Risk Factors, or result in a material change in our level of unit
operating expenses. The Corporation s overall volume capacity outlook, based on
projects coming onstream as anticipated, is for production capacity to grow
over the period 2014 2018. However, actual volumes will vary from year to
year due to the timing of individual project start-ups and other capital
activities, operational outages, reservoir performance, performance of enhanced
oil recovery projects, regulatory changes, asset sales, weather events, price
effects under production sharing contracts and other factors described in Item
1A. Risk Factors. Enhanced oil recovery projects extract hydrocarbons from
reservoirs in excess of that which may be produced through primary recovery,
i.e., through pressure depletion or natural aquifer support. They include the
injection of water, gases or chemicals into a reservoir to produce hydrocarbons
otherwise unobtainable.  

Downstream    

  ExxonMobil s
Downstream is a large, diversified business with refining, logistics, and
marketing complexes around the world. The Corporation has a presence in mature
markets in North America and Europe, as well as in the growing Asia Pacific
region. ExxonMobil s fundamental Downstream business strategies position the
company to deliver long-term growth in shareholder value that is superior to
competition across a range of market conditions. These strategies include
maintaining best in class operations in all aspects of the
business, maximizing value from leading-edge technologies, capitalizing on
integration across ExxonMobil businesses, selectively investing for resilient,
advantaged returns, leading the industry in efficiency and effectiveness, and
providing quality, valued products and services to customers.   

  ExxonMobil has an ownership interest in 31 refineries, located in 17
countries, with distillation capacity of 5.3 million barrels per day and
lubricant basestock manufacturing capacity of 126 thousand barrels per
day. ExxonMobil s fuels and lubes marketing businesses have significant global
reach, with multiple channels to market serving a diverse customer base.  Our
portfolio of world-renowned brands includes    Exxon   ,    Mobil   ,    Esso    
and    Mobil 1   .    

  The downstream industry environment remains challenging.  Demand
weakness and overcapacity in the refining sector will continue to put pressure
on margins.  In the near term, we see variability in refining margins, with
some regions seeing stronger margins as refineries rationalize. In North
America, lower raw material and energy cost driven by increasing crude oil and
natural gas production has strengthened refining margins in several areas.     

  Refining margins are largely driven by differences in commodity prices
and are a function of the difference between what a refinery pays for its raw
materials (primarily crude oil) and the market prices for the range of products
produced (primarily gasoline, heating oil, diesel oil, jet fuel and fuel oil).
Crude oil and many products are widely traded with published prices, including
those quoted on multiple exchanges around the world (e.g., New York Mercantile
Exchange and Intercontinental Exchange). Prices for these commodities are
determined by the global marketplace and are influenced by many factors,
including global and regional supply/demand balances, inventory levels, industry
refinery operations, import/export balances, currency fluctuations, seasonal
demand, weather and political climate.   

  ExxonMobil s long term outlook is that industry refining margins
will remain weak as competition remains intense and, in the near term, new
capacity additions outpace the growth in global demand. Additionally, as
described in more detail in Item 1A. Risk Factors, proposed carbon policy and
other climate-related regulations in many countries, as well as the continued
growth in biofuels mandates, could have negative impacts on the refining
business.  ExxonMobil s integration across the value chain, from refining to
marketing, enhances overall value in both fuels and lubricants businesses.   

  In the retail fuels marketing business, competition has caused
inflation-adjusted margins to decline. In 2013, ExxonMobil completed the previously
announced transition of the direct served (i.e., dealer, company-operated)
retail network in the U.S. to a more capital-efficient branded distributor
model and progressed this same model in portions of Europe.  ExxonMobil is
increasing investment in its fuels brands and developing multiple programs that
will enhance the value of its consumer retail offer.  The company s lubricants
business continues to grow, leveraging world-class brands and integration with
industry-leading basestock refining capability.  ExxonMobil remains the market
leader in the high value synthetic lubricants sector where competition is
increasing.     

  The Downstream portfolio is continually evaluated during all parts of
the business cycle, and numerous asset divestments have been made over the past
decade. When investing in the Downstream, ExxonMobil remains focused on
selective and resilient projects.  These investments capitalize on the
Corporation s world-class scale and integration, industry leading efficiency,
leading-edge technology and respected brands, enabling ExxonMobil to take
advantage of attractive emerging growth opportunities around the globe.  In 2013,
the company completed a hydrotreater project at the Singapore refinery to
produce ultra low sulfur diesel, and a cogeneration project at the Augusta,
Italy refinery to improve energy efficiency.  Additionally, construction of a
lower sulfur fuels facility at the joint Saudi Aramco and ExxonMobil SAMREF
Refinery in Yanbu, Saudi Arabia is nearly complete.  The company is also
expanding lubricant basestock manufacturing capacity at refineries in Baytown,      

43       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

Texas and Singapore, and expanding lube oil blending
plants in China, Finland, and the U.S. to support future demand growth for
finished lubricants in key markets.  

Chemical    

  Worldwide
petrochemical demand grew in 2013, led by growing demand from Asia
manufacturers and consumers.  North America continued to benefit from abundant
supplies of natural gas and gas liquids, providing both low-cost feedstock and
energy savings.  Specialty product margins declined reflecting significant new
industry capacity following several years of tight supplies.     

  ExxonMobil sustained its competitive advantage through continued
operational excellence, investment and cost discipline, a balanced portfolio of
products, integration with refining and upstream operations, all underpinned by
proprietary technology.  

  In 2013 ExxonMobil started up the Singapore Chemical Expansion Project,
more than doubling steam cracking capacity at the site and significantly
increasing premium and specialty products capacity.  Singapore is now
ExxonMobil s largest integrated petrochemical complex.  

2013    

  Earnings in 2013 of $32,580 million decreased $12,300 million
from 2012.    

2012    

  Earnings in 2012 of $44,880 million increased $3,820 million
from 2011.    

2013    

  Upstream earnings were $26,841 million, down $3,054 million
from 2012.  Higher gas realizations, partially offset by lower liquids
realizations, increased earnings by $390 million.  Production volume and
mix effects decreased earnings by $910 million.  All other items,
including lower net gains from asset sales, mainly in Angola, and higher
expenses, reduced earnings by $2.5 billion.  On an oil equivalent
basis, production was down 1.5 percent compared to 2012.  Excluding the
impacts of entitlement volumes, OPEC quota effects and divestments, production
was essentially flat.  Liquids production of 2,202 kbd (thousands of
barrels per day) increased 17 kbd compared with 2012.  Excluding the
impacts of entitlement volumes, OPEC quota effects and divestments, liquids
production was up 1.6 percent, as project ramp up and lower downtime
were partially offset by field decline.  Natural gas production of 11,836 mcfd
(millions of cubic feet per day) decreased 486 mcfd from 2012.  Excluding
the impacts of entitlement volumes and divestments, natural gas production was
down 1.5 percent, as field decline was partially offset by higher demand, lower
downtime, and project ramp up.  Earnings from U.S. Upstream operations
for 2013 were $4,191 million, up $266 million from 2012.  Earnings
outside the U.S. were $22,650 million, down $3,320 million from the
prior year.   

2012    

  Upstream earnings were $29,895 million, down
$4,544 million from 2011.  Lower liquids realizations, partly offset by
improved natural gas realizations, decreased earnings by about $100 million. 
Production volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $2.3 billion.  All
other items, including higher operating expenses, unfavorable tax items, lower
gains on asset sales, and unfavorable foreign exchange effects, reduced
earnings by $2.1 billion.  On an oil equivalent basis, production
was down 5.9 percent compared to 2011.  Excluding the impacts of
entitlement volumes, OPEC quota effects and divestments, production was down
1.7 percent.  Liquids production of 2,185 kbd decreased 127 kbd
from 2011.  Excluding the impacts of entitlement      

44       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

volumes,
OPEC quota effects and divestments, liquids production was down 1.6 percent,
as field decline was partly offset by project ramp up in West Africa and
lower downtime.  Natural gas production of 12,322 mcfd decreased 840 mcfd
from 2011.  Excluding the impacts of entitlement volumes and divestments,
natural gas production was down 1.9 percent, as field decline was
partially offset by higher demand and lower downtime.  Earnings from U.S.
Upstream operations for 2012 were $3,925 million, down $1,171 million
from 2011.  Earnings outside the U.S. were $25,970 million, down $3,373 million.

Listed below are descriptions of
ExxonMobil s entitlement volume effects. These descriptions are provided to
facilitate understanding of the terms.  

Production Sharing Contract (PSC)
Net Interest Reductions   
are contractual reductions in ExxonMobil s share of production volumes covered
by PSCs. These reductions typically occur when cumulative investment returns or
production volumes achieve thresholds as specified in the PSCs. Once a net
interest reduction has occurred, it typically will not be reversed by
subsequent events, such as lower crude oil prices.  

Price and Spend Impacts on
Volumes    are
fluctuations in ExxonMobil s share of production volumes caused by changes in
oil and gas prices or spending levels from one period to another. For example,
at higher prices, fewer barrels are required for ExxonMobil to recover its
costs. According to the terms of contractual arrangements or government royalty
regimes, price or spending variability can increase or decrease royalty burdens
and/or volumes attributable to ExxonMobil. These effects generally vary from
period to period with field spending patterns or market prices for crude oil or
natural gas.  

45       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

2013    

  Downstream earnings of $3,449 million decreased $9,741 million
from 2012 driven by the absence of the $5.3 billion gain associated with
the Japan restructuring.  Lower margins, mainly refining, decreased earnings by
$2.9 billion.  Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $310 million. 
All other items, including higher operating expenses, unfavorable foreign
exchange impacts, and lower divestments, decreased earnings by $1.2 billion. 
Petroleum product sales of 5,887 kbd decreased 287 kbd from 2012.  U.S.
Downstream earnings were $2,199 million, down $1,376 million from 2012. 
Non-U.S. Downstream earnings were $1,250 million, a decrease of $8,365 million
from the prior year.  

2012    

  Downstream earnings of $13,190 million increased
$8,731 million from 2011.  Stronger refining-driven margins increased
earnings by $2.6 billion, while volume and mix effects increased earnings
by about $200 million.  All other items increased earnings by $5.9 billion
due primarily to the $5.3 billion gain associated with the Japan
restructuring and other divestment gains.  Petroleum product sales of
6,174 kbd decreased 239 kbd from 2011 due mainly to the Japan
restructuring and divestments.  U.S. Downstream earnings were
$3,575 million, up $1,307 million from 2011.  Non-U.S. Downstream
earnings were $9,615 million, an increase of $7,424 million from 2011.  

46       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

2013    

  Chemical earnings of $3,828 million were $70 million
lower than 2012.  The absence of the gain associated with the Japan
restructuring decreased earnings by $630 million.  Higher margins increased
earnings by $480 million, while volume and mix effects increased earnings
by $80 million.  Prime product sales of 24,063 kt (thousands of metric
tons) were down 94 kt from 2012.  U.S. Chemical earnings were $2,755 million,
up $535 million from 2012. Non-U.S. Chemical earnings were $1,073 million,
$605 million lower than the prior year.  

2012    

  Chemical earnings of $3,898 million were
$485 million lower than 2011.  Margins decreased earnings by $440 million,
while volume effects lowered earnings by $100 million.  All other items
increased earnings by $50 million, as a $630 million gain associated
with the Japan restructuring and favorable tax impacts were mostly offset by
unfavorable foreign exchange effects and higher operating expenses.  Prime
product sales of 24,157 kt were down 849 kt from 2011.  U.S. Chemical
earnings were $2,220 million, up $5 million from 2011. Non-U.S.
Chemical earnings were $1,678 million, $490 million lower than 2011.  

2013    

  Corporate and financing expenses were $1,538 million,
down $565 million from 2012, as favorable tax impacts were partially
offset by the absence of the Japan restructuring gain.   

2012    

  Corporate
and financing expenses were $2,103 million, down $118 million from 2011.

47       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

Total cash
and cash equivalents were $4.9 billion at the end of 2013, $5.0 billion lower
than the prior year.  The major sources of funds in 2013 were net income
including noncontrolling interests of $33.4 billion, the adjustment for the
noncash provision of $17.2 billion for depreciation and depletion, and a net
debt increase of $11.6 billion.  The major uses of funds included spending for
additions to property, plant and equipment of $33.7 billion, the purchase of
shares of ExxonMobil stock of $16.0 billion, dividends to shareholders of $10.9
billion and a change in working capital, excluding cash and debt, of $4.7
billion.  Included in total cash and cash equivalents at year-end 2013 was $0.3
billion of restricted cash.  

  Total cash and cash equivalents were $9.9 billion at the end of 2012,
$3.1 billion lower than the prior year. Higher earnings and a higher adjustment
for noncash transactions were more than offset by lower proceeds from sales of
subsidiaries and property, plant and equipment, a net debt decrease compared to
a prior year debt increase, and a higher adjustment for net gains on asset
sales.  Included in total cash and cash equivalents at year-end 2012 was $0.3
billion of restricted cash.  For additional details, see the Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows.     

  The Corporation has access to significant capacity of long-term and
short-term liquidity.  Internally generated funds are expected to cover the
majority of financial requirements, and may be supplemented by long-term and
short-term debt, including a revolving commercial paper program.  The
Corporation has committed lines of credit of $6.5 billion which were unused as
of December 31, 2013.  Cash that may be temporarily available as surplus to the
Corporation s immediate needs is carefully managed through counterparty quality
and investment guidelines to ensure it is secure and readily available to meet
the Corporation s cash requirements and to optimize returns.   

  To support cash flows in future periods the Corporation will need to
continually find and develop new fields, and continue to develop and apply new
technologies and recovery processes to existing fields, in order to maintain or
increase production. After a period of production at plateau rates, it is the
nature of oil and gas fields eventually to produce at declining rates for the
remainder of their economic life. Averaged over all the Corporation s existing
oil and gas fields and without new projects, ExxonMobil s production is
expected to decline at an average of approximately 3 percent per year over the
next few years. Decline rates can vary widely by individual field due to a
number of factors, including, but not limited to, the type of reservoir, fluid
properties, recovery mechanisms, work activity, and age of the field.
Furthermore, the Corporation s net interest in production for individual fields
can vary with price and contractual terms.   

  The Corporation has long been successful at offsetting the effects of
natural field decline through disciplined investments in quality opportunities
and project execution. Over the last decade, this has resulted in net annual
additions to proved reserves that have exceeded the amount produced. Projects
are in progress or planned to increase production capacity. However, these
volume increases are subject to a variety of risks including project start-up
timing, operational outages, reservoir performance, crude oil and natural gas
prices, weather events, and regulatory changes. The Corporation s cash flows
are also highly dependent on crude oil and natural gas prices. Please refer to
Item 1A. Risk Factors for a more complete discussion of risks.   

  The Corporation s financial strength enables it to make large,
long-term capital expenditures. Capital and exploration expenditures in 2013
were $42.5 billion, reflecting the Corporation s continued active investment
program. The Corporation anticipates an average investment profile of about $37
billion per year for the next several years. Actual spending could vary
depending on the progress of individual projects and property acquisitions.  The
Corporation has a large and diverse portfolio of development projects and
exploration opportunities, which helps mitigate the overall political and
technical risks of the Corporation s Upstream segment and associated cash flow.
Further, due to its financial strength, debt capacity and diverse portfolio of
opportunities, the risk associated with failure or delay of any single project
would not have a significant impact on the      

48       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

Corporation s
liquidity or ability to generate sufficient cash flows for operations and its
fixed commitments. The purchase and sale of oil and gas properties have not had
a significant impact on the amount or timing of cash flows from operating
activities.   

Cash Flow from
Operating Activities   

2013    

  Cash provided by operating activities totaled $44.9
billion in 2013, $11.3 billion lower than 2012. The major source of funds was
net income including noncontrolling interests of $33.4 billion, a decrease of
$14.2 billion.  The noncash provision of $17.2 billion for depreciation and
depletion was higher than 2012. The adjustment for net gains on asset sales was
$1.8 billion compared to an adjustment of $13.0 billion in 2012.  Changes in
operational working capital, excluding cash and debt, decreased cash in 2013 by
$4.7 billion.  

2012    

  Cash provided by operating activities totaled $56.2
billion in 2012, $0.8 billion higher than 2011. The major source of funds was
net income including noncontrolling interests of $47.7 billion, an increase of
$5.5 billion.  The noncash provision of $15.9 billion for depreciation and
depletion was slightly higher than 2011.  The adjustments for other noncash
transactions and changes in operational working capital, excluding cash and
debt, both increased cash in 2012, while the adjustment for net gains on asset
sales decreased cash by $13.0 billion in 2012.    

Cash Flow from
Investing Activities   

2013   

  Cash used in investment activities netted to $34.2
billion in 2013, $8.6 billion higher than 2012. Spending for property, plant
and equipment of $33.7 billion decreased $0.6 billion from 2012. Proceeds
associated with sales of subsidiaries, property, plant and equipment, and sales
and returns of investments of $2.7 billion compared to $7.7 billion in 2012.
Additional investments and advances were $3.8 billion higher in 2013.   

2012    

  Cash used in investment activities netted to $25.6
billion in 2012, $3.4 billion higher than 2011. Spending for property, plant
and equipment of $34.3 billion increased $3.3 billion from 2011. Proceeds
associated with sales of subsidiaries, property, plant and equipment, and sales
and returns of investments of $7.7 billion compared to $11.1 billion in 2011.
The decrease reflects that a $3.6 billion deposit was received in 2011 for a
sale that closed in 2012. Additional investments and advances were $3.0 billion
lower in 2012.   

Cash Flow from
Financing Activities    

2013    

  Cash used in
financing activities was $15.5 billion in 2013, $18.4 billion lower than 2012.
Dividend payments on common shares increased to $2.46 per share from $2.18 per
share and totaled $10.9 billion, a pay-out of 33 percent of net income. Total
debt increased $11.1 billion to $22.7 billion at year-end.   

  ExxonMobil share of equity increased $8.1 billion to $174.0 billion.
The addition to equity for earnings of $32.6 billion was partially offset by
reductions for distributions to ExxonMobil shareholders of $10.9 billion of
dividends and $15.0 billion of purchases of shares of ExxonMobil stock to
reduce shares outstanding.   

  During 2013, Exxon Mobil
Corporation purchased 177 million shares of its common stock for the treasury
at a gross cost of $16.0 billion. These purchases were to reduce the number of
shares outstanding and to offset shares issued in conjunction with company
benefit plans and programs. Shares outstanding were reduced by 3.7 percent from
4,502 million to 4,335 million at the end of 2013. Purchases were made in both
the open market and through negotiated transactions. Purchases may be
increased, decreased or discontinued at any time without prior notice.  

2012    

  Cash used in
financing activities was $33.9 billion in 2012, $5.6 billion higher than 2011.
Dividend payments on common shares increased to $2.18 per share from $1.85 per
share and totaled $10.1 billion, a pay-out of 22 percent of net income. Total
debt decreased $5.5 billion to $11.6 billion at year-end.   

49       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

ExxonMobil share of equity increased $11.5 billion to
$165.9 billion. The addition to equity for earnings of $44.9 billion was
partially offset by reductions for distributions to ExxonMobil shareholders of
$10.1 billion of dividends and $20.0 billion of purchases of shares of
ExxonMobil stock to reduce shares outstanding.   

  During 2012, Exxon Mobil
Corporation purchased 244 million shares of its common stock for the treasury
at a gross cost of $21.1 billion. These purchases were to reduce the number of
shares outstanding and to offset shares issued in conjunction with company
benefit plans and programs. Shares outstanding were reduced by 4.9 percent from
4,734 million to 4,502 million at the end of 2012. Purchases were made in both
the open market and through negotiated transactions.   

50       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

Commitments    

  Set forth
below is information about the outstanding commitments of the Corporation s
consolidated subsidiaries at December 31, 2013. It combines data from the
Consolidated Balance Sheet and from individual notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.   

This table
excludes commodity purchase obligations (volumetric commitments but no fixed or
minimum price) which are resold shortly after purchase, either in an active,
highly liquid market or under long-term, unconditional sales contracts with
similar pricing terms. Examples include long-term, noncancelable LNG and
natural gas purchase commitments and commitments to purchase refinery products
at market prices. Inclusion of such commitments would not be meaningful in
assessing liquidity and cash flow, because these purchases will be offset in
the same periods by cash received from the related sales transactions. The
table also excludes unrecognized tax benefits totaling $7.8 billion as of
December 31, 2013, because the Corporation is unable to make reasonably
reliable estimates of the timing of cash settlements with the respective taxing
authorities. Further details on the unrecognized tax benefits can be found in
Note 19, Income, Sales-Based and Other Taxes.   

  Notes:   

   (1)   Includes capitalized lease
obligations of $375 million.    

   (2)   The amount due in one year is
included in notes and loans payable of $15,808 million.    

   (3)   The fair value of asset
retirement obligations, primarily upstream asset removal costs at the
completion of field life.    

   (4)   The amount by which the
benefit obligations exceeded the fair value of fund assets for certain U.S. and
non-U.S. pension and other postretirement plans at year end. The payments by
period include expected contributions to funded pension plans in 2014 and
estimated benefit payments for unfunded plans in all years.    

   (5)   Minimum commitments for
operating leases, shown on an undiscounted basis, cover drilling equipment,
tankers, service stations and other properties.    

   (6)   Unconditional purchase
obligations (UPOs) are those long-term commitments that are noncancelable or
cancelable only under certain conditions, and that third parties have used to
secure financing for the facilities that will provide the contracted goods or
services. The undiscounted obligations of $1,236 million mainly pertain to
pipeline throughput agreements and include $457 million of obligations to
equity companies.    

   (7)   Take-or-pay obligations are
noncancelable, long-term commitments for goods and services other than UPOs.
The undiscounted obligations of $29,610 million mainly pertain to pipeline, manufacturing
supply and terminaling agreements.    

   (8)   Firm commitments related to
capital projects, shown on an undiscounted basis, totaled approximately $29.8
billion. These commitments were primarily associated with Upstream projects
outside the U.S., of which $16.3 billion was associated with projects in Canada,
Australia, Africa, United Arab Emirates and Malaysia.  The Corporation expects
to fund the majority of these projects with internally generated funds that may be supplemented by
long-term and short-term debt, including a revolving commercial paper program.   

51       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

Guarantees    

  The
Corporation and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries were contingently
liable at December 31, 2013, for guarantees relating to notes, loans and
performance under contracts (Note 16). Where guarantees for environmental
remediation and other similar matters do not include a stated cap, the amounts
reflect management s estimate of the maximum potential exposure. These guarantees
are not reasonably likely to have a material effect on the Corporation s
financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses,
results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.   

Financial Strength    

  On
December 31, 2013, the Corporation s unused short-term committed lines of credit
totaled approximately $5.9 billion (Note 6) and unused long-term committed
lines of credit totaled approximately $0.6 billion (Note 14).   

  The table below shows the Corporation s fixed-charge coverage
and consolidated debt-to-capital ratios. The data demonstrate the
Corporation s creditworthiness.   

Management
views the Corporation s financial strength, as evidenced by the above financial
ratios and other similar measures, to be a competitive advantage of strategic
importance. The Corporation s sound financial position gives it the opportunity
to access the world s capital markets in the full range of market conditions,
and enables the Corporation to take on large, long-term capital commitments in
the pursuit of maximizing shareholder value.   

Litigation and Other Contingencies    

  As discussed
in Note 16, a variety of claims have been made against ExxonMobil and certain
of its consolidated subsidiaries in a number of pending lawsuits. Based on a
consideration of all relevant facts and circumstances, the Corporation does not
believe the ultimate outcome of any currently pending lawsuit against
ExxonMobil will have a material adverse effect upon the Corporation s
operations, financial condition, or financial statements taken as a whole.
There are no events or uncertainties beyond those already included in reported
financial information that would indicate a material change in future operating
results or financial condition. Refer to Note 16 for additional information on
legal proceedings and other contingencies.   

52       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

Capital and
exploration expenditures in 2013 were $42.5 billion, including $4.3 billion for
acquisitions, as the Corporation continued to pursue opportunities to find and
produce new supplies of oil and natural gas to meet global demand for energy. 
The Corporation anticipates an average investment profile of about $37 billion
per year for the next several years. Actual spending could vary depending on
the progress of individual projects and property acquisitions.  

  Upstream spending of $38.2 billion in 2013 was up 6 percent from 2012. 
Property acquisition costs in the Upstream in 2013 of $4.2 billion were $1.2
billion higher than in 2012.  Investments in 2013 included projects in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico and Alaska, exploration in Russia and continued progress on
world-class projects in Canada, Australia and Papua New Guinea.  The majority
of expenditures are on development projects, which typically take two to four
years from the time of recording proved undeveloped reserves to the start of
production from those reserves. The percentage of proved developed reserves was
66 percent of total proved reserves at year-end 2013, and has been over 60
percent for the last ten years, indicating that proved reserves are consistently
moved from undeveloped to developed status.  

  Capital investments in the Downstream totaled $2.4 billion in 2013, an
increase of $0.2 billion from 2012, mainly reflecting higher refining margin
improvement project spending. The Chemical capital expenditures of $1.8 billion
increased $0.4 billion from 2012 with higher investments in the U.S., Saudi
Arabia and China more than offsetting reduced spending on the completed
Singapore Chemical Plant expansion.  

2013    

  Income,
sales-based and all other taxes and duties totaled $91.2 billion in 2013, a
decrease of $11.1 billion or 11 percent from 2012. Income tax expense, both
current and deferred, was $24.3 billion, $6.8 billion lower than 2012, with the
impact of lower earnings partially offset by the higher effective tax rate. 
The effective tax rate was 48 percent compared to 44 percent in the prior year
due to the absence of favorable tax impacts on divestments.  Sales-based and
all other taxes and duties of $67.0 billion in 2013 decreased $4.3 billion
reflecting the 2012 Japan restructuring.   

2012    

  Income, sales-based
and all other taxes and duties totaled $102.3 billion in 2012, a decrease of
$5.8 billion or 5 percent from 2011. Income tax expense, both current and
deferred, was $31.0 billion, flat with 2011, with the impact of higher earnings
offset by the lower effective tax rate.  The effective tax rate was 44 percent
compared to 46 percent in the prior year due to a lower effective tax rate on
divestments.  Sales-based and all other taxes and duties of $71.3 billion in
2012 decreased $5.8 billion reflecting the Japan restructuring.   

53       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS   

Throughout
ExxonMobil s businesses, new and ongoing measures are taken to prevent and
minimize the impact of our operations on air, water and ground. These
include a significant investment in refining infrastructure and technology to
manufacture clean fuels as well as projects to monitor and reduce nitrogen
oxide, sulfur oxide and greenhouse gas emissions and expenditures for asset
retirement obligations. Using definitions and guidelines established by the American
Petroleum Institute, ExxonMobil s 2013 worldwide environmental expenditures for
all such preventative and remediation steps, including ExxonMobil s share of
equity company expenditures, were about $6.0 billion. The total cost
for such activities is expected to remain in this range in 2014 and 2015 (with
capital expenditures approximately 45 percent of the total).   

Environmental Liabilities    

  The
Corporation accrues environmental liabilities when it is probable that
obligations have been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated.
This policy applies to assets or businesses currently owned or previously
disposed. ExxonMobil has accrued liabilities for probable environmental
remediation obligations at various sites, including multiparty sites where the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has identified ExxonMobil as one of the
potentially responsible parties. The involvement of other financially
responsible companies at these multiparty sites could mitigate ExxonMobil s
actual joint and several liability exposure. At present, no individual site is
expected to have losses material to ExxonMobil s operations or financial
condition. Consolidated company provisions made in 2013 for environmental
liabilities were $321 million ($391 million in 2012) and the balance
sheet reflects accumulated liabilities of $773 million as of
December 31, 2013, and $841 million as of December 31, 2012.   

MARKET RISKS, INFLATION AND OTHER
UNCERTAINTIES    

Crude oil,
natural gas, petroleum product and chemical prices have fluctuated in response
to changing market forces. The impacts of these price fluctuations on earnings
from Upstream, Downstream and Chemical operations have varied. In the Upstream,
a $1 per barrel change in the weighted-average realized price of oil
would have approximately a $350 million annual after-tax effect on Upstream
consolidated plus equity company earnings. Similarly, a $0.10 per kcf change in
the worldwide average gas realization would have approximately a $175 million
annual after-tax effect on Upstream consolidated plus equity company earnings.
For any given period, the extent of actual benefit or detriment will be
dependent on the price movements of individual types of crude oil, taxes and
other government take impacts, price adjustment lags in long-term gas
contracts, and crude and gas production volumes. Accordingly, changes in
benchmark prices for crude oil and natural gas only provide broad indicators of
changes in the earnings experienced in any particular period.   

  In the very competitive downstream and chemical environments, earnings
are primarily determined by margin capture rather than absolute price levels of
products sold. Refining margins are a function of the difference between what a
refiner pays for its raw materials (primarily crude oil) and the market prices
for the range of products produced. These prices in turn depend on global and
regional supply/demand balances, inventory levels, refinery operations,
import/export balances and weather.   

54       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

The global energy markets can
give rise to extended periods in which market conditions are adverse to one or
more of the Corporation s businesses. Such conditions, along with the
capital-intensive nature of the industry and very long lead times associated
with many of our projects, underscore the importance of maintaining a strong
financial position. Management views the Corporation s financial strength as a
competitive advantage.   

  In general, segment results are not dependent on the ability to sell
and/or purchase products to/from other segments. Instead, where such sales take
place, they are the result of efficiencies and competitive advantages of
integrated refinery/chemical complexes. Additionally, intersegment sales are at
market-based prices. The products bought and sold between segments can also be
acquired in worldwide markets that have substantial liquidity, capacity and
transportation capabilities. About 35 percent of the Corporation s intersegment
sales are crude oil produced by the Upstream and sold to the Downstream. Other
intersegment sales include those between refineries and chemical plants related
to raw materials, feedstocks and finished products.   

  Although price levels of crude oil and natural gas may rise or fall
significantly over the short to medium term due to political events, OPEC
actions and other factors, industry economics over the long term will continue
to be driven by market supply and demand. Accordingly, the Corporation tests
the viability of all of its investments over a broad range of future prices.
The Corporation s assessment is that its operations will continue to be successful
in a variety of market conditions. This is the outcome of disciplined
investment and asset management programs.   

  The Corporation has an active asset management program in which
underperforming assets are either improved to acceptable levels or considered
for divestment. The asset management program includes a disciplined, regular
review to ensure that all assets are contributing to the Corporation s
strategic objectives. The result is an efficient capital base, and the
Corporation has seldom had to write down the carrying value of assets, even
during periods of low commodity prices.   

Risk Management    

  The
Corporation s size, strong capital structure, geographic diversity and the
complementary nature of the Upstream, Downstream and Chemical businesses reduce
the Corporation s enterprise-wide risk from changes in interest rates, currency
rates and commodity prices. As a result, the Corporation makes limited use of
derivative instruments to mitigate the impact of such changes. With respect to
derivatives activities, the Corporation believes that there are no material
market or credit risks to the Corporation s financial position, results of
operations or liquidity as a result of the derivatives described in Note 13.
The Corporation does not engage in speculative derivative activities or
derivative trading activities nor does it use derivatives with leveraged
features. Credit risk associated with the Corporation s derivative position is
mitigated by several factors, including the use of derivative clearing exchanges
and the quality of and financial limits placed on derivative counterparties.
The Corporation maintains a system of controls that includes the authorization,
reporting and monitoring of derivative activity.   

  The Corporation is exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on
its short-term debt and the portion of long-term debt that carries floating
interest rates. The impact of a 100-basis-point change in interest rates
affecting the Corporation s debt would not be material to earnings, cash flow
or fair value. The Corporation has access to significant capacity of long-term
and short-term liquidity. Internally generated funds are expected to cover the
majority of financial requirements, and may be supplemented by long-term and
short-term debt, including a revolving commercial paper program. Some
joint-venture partners are dependent on the credit markets, and their funding
ability may impact the development pace of joint-venture projects.   

  The Corporation conducts business in many foreign currencies and is
subject to exchange rate risk on cash flows related to sales, expenses,
financing and investment transactions. The impacts of fluctuations in exchange
rates on ExxonMobil s geographically and functionally diverse operations are
varied and often offsetting in amount. The Corporation makes limited use of
currency exchange contracts to mitigate the impact of changes in currency
values, and exposures related to the Corporation s limited use of the currency
exchange contracts are not material.   

Inflation and Other Uncertainties    

  The general
rate of inflation in many major countries of operation has remained moderate
over the past few years, and the associated impact on non-energy costs has
generally been mitigated by cost reductions from efficiency and productivity
improvements. Increased demand for certain services and materials has resulted
in higher operating and capital costs in recent years. The Corporation works to
counter upward pressure on costs through its economies of scale in global
procurement and its efficient project management practices.   

55       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

  The
Corporation s accounting and financial reporting fairly reflect its
straightforward business model involving the extracting, refining and marketing
of hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon-based products. The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
(GAAP) requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Corporation s accounting
policies are summarized in Note 1.   

Oil and Gas Reserves    

  Evaluations
of oil and gas reserves are important to the effective management of upstream
assets. They are an integral part of investment decisions about oil and gas
properties such as whether development should proceed. Oil and gas reserve
quantities are also used as the basis to calculate unit-of-production
depreciation rates and to evaluate impairment.   

  Oil and gas reserves include both proved and unproved reserves. Proved
oil and gas reserves are those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of
geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to
be economically producible. Unproved reserves are those with less than
reasonable certainty of recoverability and include probable reserves. Probable
reserves are reserves that are more likely to be recovered than not.   

  The estimation of proved reserves is an ongoing process based on
rigorous technical evaluations, commercial and market assessment, and detailed
analysis of well information such as flow rates and reservoir pressure
declines. The estimation of proved reserves is controlled by the Corporation
through long-standing approval guidelines. Reserve changes are made within a
well-established, disciplined process driven by senior level geoscience and
engineering professionals, assisted by the Reserves Technical Oversight group
which has significant technical experience, culminating in reviews with and
approval by senior management. Notably, the Corporation does not use specific
quantitative reserve targets to determine compensation. Key features of the
reserve estimation process are covered in Disclosure of Reserves in
Item 2.   

  Although the Corporation is reasonably certain that proved reserves
will be produced, the timing and amount recovered can be affected by a number
of factors including completion of development projects, reservoir performance,
regulatory approvals and significant changes in long-term oil and gas price
levels.   

  Proved reserves can be further subdivided into developed and
undeveloped reserves. The percentage of proved developed reserves was 66
percent of total proved reserves at year-end 2013 (including both consolidated
and equity company reserves), and has been over 60 percent for the last ten
years, indicating that proved reserves are consistently moved from undeveloped
to developed status.   

  Revisions can include upward or downward changes in previously
estimated volumes of proved reserves for existing fields due to the evaluation
or re-evaluation of (1) already available geologic, reservoir or
production data, (2) new geologic, reservoir or production data or
(3) changes in prices and year-end costs that are used in the estimation
of reserves. Revisions can also result from significant changes in development
strategy or production equipment/facility capacity.   

   Impact of
Oil and Gas Reserves on Depreciation.   
The calculation of unit-of-production depreciation is a critical accounting
estimate that measures the depreciation of upstream assets. It is the ratio of
actual volumes produced to total proved developed reserves (those proved
reserves recoverable through existing wells with existing equipment and
operating methods), applied to the asset cost. The volumes produced and asset
cost are known and, while proved developed reserves have a high probability of
recoverability, they are based on estimates that are subject to some
variability. While the revisions the Corporation has made in the past are an
indicator of variability, they have had a very small impact on the
unit-of-production rates because they have been small compared to the large
reserves base.   

   Impact of
Oil and Gas Reserves and Prices on Testing for Impairment.    Proved oil and gas properties held and used by the
Corporation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances
indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Assets are grouped
at the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows that are
largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets.   

  The Corporation estimates the future undiscounted cash flows of the
affected properties to judge the recoverability of carrying amounts. Impairment
analyses are generally based on proved reserves. Where probable reserves exist,
an appropriately risk-adjusted amount of these reserves may be included in the
impairment evaluation. An asset group would be impaired if its undiscounted
cash flows were less than the asset s carrying value. Impairments are measured
by the amount by which the carrying value exceeds fair value.   

  Significant unproved properties are assessed for impairment
individually, and valuation allowances against the capitalized costs are
recorded based on the estimated economic chance of success and the length of
time that the Corporation expects to hold the properties. Properties that are
not individually significant are aggregated by groups and amortized based on
development risk and average holding period.   

56       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

The Corporation performs asset valuation analyses on
an ongoing basis as a part of its asset management program. These analyses
assist the Corporation in assessing whether the carrying amounts of any of its
assets may not be recoverable. In addition to estimating oil and gas reserve
volumes in conducting these analyses, it is also necessary to estimate future
oil and gas prices. Potential trigger events for impairment evaluation include
a significant decrease in current and projected reserve volumes, an
accumulation of project costs significantly in excess of the amount originally
expected, and current period operating losses combined with a history and
forecast of operating or cash flow losses.   

  In general, the Corporation does not view temporarily low prices or
margins as a trigger event for conducting the impairment tests. The markets for
crude oil and natural gas have a history of significant price volatility.
Although prices will occasionally drop significantly, industry prices over the
long term will continue to be driven by market supply and demand. On the supply
side, industry production from mature fields is declining, but this is being
offset by production from new discoveries and field developments. OPEC
production policies also have an impact on world oil supplies. The demand side
is largely a function of global economic growth. The relative growth/decline in
supply versus demand will determine industry prices over the long term, and
these cannot be accurately predicted.   

  Accordingly, any impairment tests that the Corporation performs make
use of the Corporation s price assumptions developed in the annual planning and
budgeting process for the crude oil and natural gas markets, petroleum products
and chemicals. These are the same price assumptions that are used for capital
investment decisions. Volumes are based on field production profiles, which are
updated annually. Cash flow estimates for impairment testing exclude the
effects of derivative instruments.   

  Supplemental information regarding oil and gas results of operations,
capitalized costs and reserves is provided following the notes to consolidated
financial statements. Future prices used for any impairment tests will vary
from the ones used in the supplemental oil and gas disclosure and could be
lower or higher for any given year.   

Asset Retirement Obligations    

  The
Corporation incurs retirement obligations for certain assets. The fair values
of these obligations are recorded as liabilities on a discounted basis, which
is typically at the time the assets are installed. In the estimation of fair
value, the Corporation uses assumptions and judgments regarding such factors as
the existence of a legal obligation for an asset retirement obligation;
technical assessments of the assets; estimated amounts and timing of
settlements; discount rates; and inflation rates. Asset retirement obligations
are disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.   

Suspended Exploratory Well Costs    

  The
Corporation continues capitalization of exploratory well costs when the well
has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a
producing well and the Corporation is making sufficient progress assessing the
reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. Exploratory
well costs not meeting these criteria are charged to expense. The facts and
circumstances that support continued capitalization of suspended wells at year-end
are disclosed in Note 10 to the financial statements.   

Consolidations    

  The
Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of those subsidiaries
that the Corporation controls. They also include the Corporation s share of the
undivided interest in certain upstream assets, liabilities, revenues and
expenses. Amounts representing the Corporation s interest in the underlying net
assets of other significant entities that it does not control, but over which
it exercises significant influence, are accounted for using the equity method
of accounting.   

  Investments in companies that are partially owned by
the Corporation are integral to the Corporation s operations. In some cases
they serve to balance worldwide risks, and in others they provide the only
available means of entry into a particular market or area of interest. The
other parties who also have an equity interest in these companies are either
independent third parties or host governments that share in the business
results according to their ownership. The Corporation does not invest in these
companies in order to remove liabilities from its balance sheet. In fact, the
Corporation has long been on record supporting an alternative accounting method
that would require each investor to consolidate its share of all assets and
liabilities in these partially owned companies rather than only its interest in
net equity. This method of accounting for investments in partially-owned
companies is not permitted by U.S. GAAP except where the investments are in the
direct ownership of a share of upstream assets and liabilities. However, for
purposes of calculating return on average capital employed, which is not
covered by U.S. GAAP standards, the Corporation includes its share of debt of
these partially-owned companies in the determination of average capital
employed.   

57       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

Pension Benefits    

  The
Corporation and its affiliates sponsor over 100 defined benefit (pension) plans
in about 50 countries. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (Note 17)
provides details on pension obligations, fund assets and pension expense.   

  Some of these plans (primarily non-U.S.) provide
pension benefits that are paid directly by their sponsoring affiliates out of
corporate cash flow rather than a separate pension fund. Book reserves are
established for these plans because tax conventions and regulatory practices do
not encourage advance funding. The portion of the pension cost attributable to
employee service is expensed as services are rendered. The portion attributable
to the increase in pension obligations due to the passage of time is expensed over
the term of the obligations, which ends when all benefits are paid. The primary
difference in pension expense for unfunded versus funded plans is that pension
expense for funded plans also includes a credit for the expected long-term
return on fund assets.  

  For funded plans, including those in the U.S., pension
obligations are financed in advance through segregated assets or insurance
arrangements. These plans are managed in compliance with the requirements of
governmental authorities and meet or exceed required funding levels as measured
by relevant actuarial and government standards at the mandated measurement
dates. In determining liabilities and required contributions, these standards
often require approaches and assumptions that differ from those used for
accounting purposes.   

  The Corporation will continue to make contributions to
these funded plans as necessary. All defined-benefit pension obligations,
regardless of the funding status of the underlying plans, are fully supported
by the financial strength of the Corporation or the respective sponsoring
affiliate.   

  Pension accounting requires explicit assumptions
regarding, among others, the long-term expected earnings rate on fund assets,
the discount rate for the benefit obligations and the long-term rate for future
salary increases. Pension assumptions are reviewed annually by outside
actuaries and senior management. These assumptions are adjusted as appropriate
to reflect changes in market rates and outlook. The long-term expected earnings
rate on U.S. pension plan assets in 2013 was 7.25 percent. The 10 year
and 20 year actual returns on U.S. pension plan assets were 7 percent and
9 percent, respectively. The Corporation establishes the long-term expected
rate of return by developing a forward-looking, long-term return assumption for
each pension fund asset class, taking into account factors such as the expected
real return for the specific asset class and inflation. A single, long-term
rate of return is then calculated as the weighted average of the target asset
allocation percentages and the long-term return assumption for each asset
class. A worldwide reduction of 0.5 percent in the long-term rate of return on
assets would increase annual pension expense by approximately $150 million
before tax.   

  Differences between actual returns on fund assets and
the long-term expected return are not recognized in pension expense in the year
that the difference occurs. Such differences are deferred, along with other
actuarial gains and losses, and are amortized into pension expense over the
expected remaining service life of employees.   

Litigation Contingencies    

  A
variety of claims have been made against the Corporation and certain of its
consolidated subsidiaries in a number of pending lawsuits. Management has regular
litigation reviews, including updates from corporate and outside counsel, to
assess the need for accounting recognition or disclosure of these
contingencies. The status of significant claims is summarized in Note 16.   

  The Corporation accrues an undiscounted liability for
those contingencies where the incurrence of a loss is probable, and the amount
can be reasonably estimated. These amounts are not reduced by amounts that may
be recovered under insurance or claims against third parties, but undiscounted
receivables from insurers or other third parties may be accrued separately. The
Corporation revises such accruals in light of new information. For
contingencies where an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible and which are
significant, the Corporation discloses the nature of the contingency and, where
feasible, an estimate of the possible loss. For purposes of our litigation
contingency disclosures,  significant  includes material matters as well as
other items which management believes should be disclosed.   

  Management judgment is required related to contingent
liabilities and the outcome of litigation because both are difficult to
predict. However, the Corporation has been successful in defending litigation
in the past. Payments have not had a material adverse effect on operations or
financial condition. In the Corporation s experience, large claims often do not
result in large awards. Large awards are often reversed or substantially
reduced as a result of appeal or settlement.   

Tax Contingencies    

  The
Corporation is subject to income taxation in many jurisdictions around the
world. Significant management judgment is required in the accounting for income
tax contingencies and tax disputes because the outcomes are often difficult to
predict.   

  The benefits of uncertain tax positions
that the Corporation has taken or expects to take in its income tax returns are
recognized in the financial statements if management concludes that it is more
likely than not that the position will be sustained      

58       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

with
the tax authorities. For a position that is likely to be sustained, the benefit
recognized in the financial statements is measured at the largest amount that
is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized. A reserve is established
for the difference between a position taken or expected to be taken in an
income tax return and the amount recognized in the financial statements. The
Corporation s unrecognized tax benefits and a description of open tax years are
summarized in Note 19.  

Foreign Currency Translation    

  The
method of translating the foreign currency financial statements of the
Corporation s international subsidiaries into U.S. dollars is prescribed by
GAAP. Under these principles, it is necessary to select the functional currency
of these subsidiaries. The functional currency is the currency of the primary
economic environment in which the subsidiary operates. Management selects the
functional currency after evaluating this economic environment.   

  Factors considered by management when determining the functional
currency for a subsidiary include the currency used for cash flows related to
individual assets and liabilities; the responsiveness of sales prices to
changes in exchange rates; the history of inflation in the country; whether
sales are into local markets or exported; the currency used to acquire raw
materials, labor, services and supplies; sources of financing; and significance
of intercompany transactions.  

59       

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL

REPORTING   

Management, including the Corporation s Chief Executive
Officer, Principal Financial Officer, and Principal Accounting Officer, is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over the
Corporation s financial reporting. Management conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on criteria
established in    Internal Control   Integrated Framework (1992)   
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Based on this evaluation, management concluded that Exxon Mobil Corporation s
internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31,
2013.   

  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, audited the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, as stated in
their report included in the Financial Section of this report.   

Rex W. Tillerson  
    Chief
  Executive Officer  

Andrew P. Swiger  
    Senior Vice President  
    (Principal
  Financial Officer)  

Patrick T. Mulva  
    Vice President and Controller  
    (Principal
  Accounting Officer)  

60       

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED

PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

To the Shareholders of Exxon Mobil
Corporation:   

  In our opinion, the accompanying Consolidated Balance
Sheets and the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income,
Changes in Equity and Cash Flows present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Exxon Mobil Corporation and its subsidiaries at
December 31, 2013, and 2012, and the results of their operations and their
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2013,
in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America. Also in our opinion, the Corporation maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2013, based on criteria established in    Internal Control  
Integrated Framework (1992)    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Corporation s management
is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.
Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on
the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting based on our
integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and
whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in
all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as
we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.   

  A company s internal control over financial reporting
is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.   

  /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP   

  Dallas, Texas   

  February 26, 2014   

61       

CONSOLIDATED

STATEMENT OF INCOME   

(1)   Sales and other operating
revenue includes sales-based taxes of $30,589 million for 2013, $32,409 million
for 2012 and $33,503 million for 2011.    

The
information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral
part of these statements.    

62       

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME   

The
information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral
part of these statements.    

63       

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET   

The
information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral
part of these statements.    

64       

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS   

The
information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral
part of these statements.    

65       

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY   

The
information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral
part of these statements.    

66       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

The accompanying consolidated financial statements and
the supporting and supplemental material are the responsibility of the
management of Exxon Mobil Corporation.   

  The Corporation s principal business is energy,
involving the worldwide exploration, production, transportation and sale of
crude oil and natural gas (Upstream) and the manufacture, transportation and
sale of petroleum products (Downstream). The Corporation is also a major
worldwide manufacturer and marketer of petrochemicals (Chemical) and
participates in electric power generation (Upstream).   

  The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) requires management
to make estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Actual results could differ from these estimates. Prior years  data has been
reclassified in certain cases to conform to the 2013 presentation basis.   

1. Summary of Accounting Policies    

   Principles
of Consolidation.    The Consolidated
Financial Statements include the accounts of subsidiaries the Corporation
controls. They also include the Corporation s share of the undivided interest
in certain upstream assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.   

  Amounts representing the Corporation s interest in
entities that it does not control, but over which it exercises significant
influence, are included in  Investments, advances and long-term receivables. 
The Corporation s share of the net income of these companies is included in the
Consolidated Statement of Income caption  Income from equity affiliates.    

  Majority ownership is normally the indicator of
control that is the basis on which subsidiaries are consolidated. However,
certain factors may indicate that a majority-owned investment is not controlled
and therefore should be accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
These factors occur where the minority shareholders are granted by law or by
contract substantive participating rights. These include the right to approve
operating policies, expense budgets, financing and investment plans, and
management compensation and succession plans.   

  The Corporation s share of the cumulative foreign
exchange translation adjustment for equity method investments is reported in Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Income.   

  Evidence of loss in value that might indicate
impairment of investments in companies accounted for on the equity method is
assessed to determine if such evidence represents a loss in value of the
Corporation s investment that is other than temporary. Examples of key
indicators include a history of operating losses, a negative earnings and cash
flow outlook, significant downward revisions to oil and gas reserves, and the
financial condition and prospects for the investee s business segment or
geographic region. If evidence of an other than temporary loss in fair value
below carrying amount is determined, an impairment is recognized. In the
absence of market prices for the investment, discounted cash flows are used to
assess fair value.   

   Revenue
Recognition.    The Corporation
generally sells crude oil, natural gas and petroleum and chemical products
under short-term agreements at prevailing market prices. In some cases (e.g.,
natural gas), products may be sold under long-term agreements, with periodic
price adjustments. Revenues are recognized when the products are delivered,
which occurs when the customer has taken title and has assumed the risks and
rewards of ownership, prices are fixed or determinable and collectibility is
reasonably assured.   

  Revenues from the production of natural gas properties
in which the Corporation has an interest with other producers are recognized on
the basis of the Corporation s net working interest. Differences between actual
production and net working interest volumes are not significant.   

  Purchases and sales of inventory with the same
counterparty that are entered into in contemplation of one another are combined
and recorded as exchanges measured at the book value of the item sold.   

   Sales-Based
Taxes.    The Corporation reports sales,
excise and value-added taxes on sales transactions on a gross basis in the
Consolidated Statement of Income (included in both revenues and costs).   

   Derivative
Instruments.    The Corporation makes
limited use of derivative instruments. The Corporation does not engage in
speculative derivative activities or derivative trading activities, nor does it
use derivatives with leveraged features. When the Corporation does enter into derivative
transactions, it is to offset exposures associated with interest rates, foreign
currency exchange rates and hydrocarbon prices that arise from existing assets,
liabilities and forecasted transactions.   

  The gains and losses resulting from changes in the
fair value of derivatives are recorded in income. In some cases, the
Corporation designates derivatives as fair value hedges, in which case the
gains and losses are offset in income by the gains and losses arising from
changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged item.   

   Fair
Value.    Fair value is the price that
would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an
orderly transaction between market participants. Hierarchy Levels 1, 2 and 3
are terms for the priority of inputs to valuation techniques used to measure
fair value. Hierarchy Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in active markets for
identical assets or liabilities. Hierarchy      

67       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Level 2
inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that
are directly or indirectly observable for the asset or liability. Hierarchy
Level 3 inputs are inputs that are not observable in the market  .   

   Inventories.
   Crude oil, products and merchandise
inventories are carried at the lower of current market value or cost (generally
determined under the last-in, first-out method   LIFO). Inventory costs include
expenditures and other charges (including depreciation) directly and indirectly
incurred in bringing the inventory to its existing condition and location.
Selling expenses and general and administrative expenses are reported as period
costs and excluded from inventory cost. Inventories of materials and supplies
are valued at cost or less.   

   Property,
Plant and Equipment.    Depreciation,
depletion and amortization, based on cost less estimated salvage value of the
asset, are primarily determined under either the unit-of-production method or
the straight-line method, which is based on estimated asset service life taking
obsolescence into consideration. Maintenance and repairs, including planned
major maintenance, are expensed as incurred. Major renewals and improvements
are capitalized and the assets replaced are retired.   

  Interest costs incurred to finance expenditures during
the construction phase of multiyear projects are capitalized as part of the
historical cost of acquiring the constructed assets. The project construction
phase commences with the development of the detailed engineering design and
ends when the constructed assets are ready for their intended use. Capitalized
interest costs are included in property, plant and equipment and are
depreciated over the service life of the related assets.   

  The Corporation uses the  successful efforts  method
to account for its exploration and production activities. Under this method,
costs are accumulated on a field-by-field basis with certain exploratory
expenditures and exploratory dry holes being expensed as incurred. Costs of
productive wells and development dry holes are capitalized and amortized on the
unit-of-production method.   

  The Corporation carries as an asset exploratory well
costs when the well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its
completion as a producing well and where the Corporation is making sufficient
progress assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the
project. Exploratory well costs not meeting these criteria are charged to
expense. Other exploratory expenditures, including geophysical costs and annual
lease rentals, are expensed as incurred.   

  Acquisition costs of proved properties are amortized
using a unit-of-production method, computed on the basis of total proved oil
and gas reserves.   

  Capitalized exploratory drilling and development costs
associated with productive depletable extractive properties are amortized using
unit-of-production rates based on the amount of proved developed reserves of
oil, gas and other minerals that are estimated to be recoverable from existing
facilities using current operating methods.   

  Under the unit-of-production method, oil and gas
volumes are considered produced once they have been measured through meters at
custody transfer or sales transaction points at the outlet valve on the lease
or field storage tank.   

  Production involves lifting the oil and gas to the
surface and gathering, treating, field processing and field storage of the oil
and gas. The production function normally terminates at the outlet valve on the
lease or field production storage tank. Production costs are those incurred to
operate and maintain the Corporation s wells and related equipment and
facilities and are expensed as incurred. They become part of the cost of oil
and gas produced. These costs, sometimes referred to as lifting costs, include
such items as labor costs to operate the wells and related equipment; repair
and maintenance costs on the wells and equipment; materials, supplies and
energy costs required to operate the wells and related equipment; and
administrative expenses related to the production activity.   

  Proved oil and gas properties held and used by the
Corporation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Assets
are grouped at the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows
that are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets.   

  The Corporation estimates the future undiscounted cash
flows of the affected properties to judge the recoverability of carrying
amounts. Cash flows used in impairment evaluations are developed using annually
updated corporate plan investment evaluation assumptions for crude oil
commodity prices, refining and chemical margins and foreign currency exchange
rates. Annual volumes are based on field production profiles, which are also
updated annually. Prices for natural gas and other products are based on
corporate plan assumptions developed annually by major region and also for
investment evaluation purposes. Cash flow estimates for impairment testing
exclude derivative instruments.   

  Impairment analyses are generally based on proved
reserves. Where probable reserves exist, an appropriately risk-adjusted amount
of these reserves may be included in the impairment evaluation. An asset group
would be impaired if the undiscounted cash flows were less than its carrying
value.  Impairments are measured by the amount the carrying value exceeds fair
value.   

  Significant unproved properties are assessed for
impairment individually, and valuation allowances against the capitalized costs
are recorded based on the estimated economic chance of success and the length
of time that the Corporation expects to hold the properties. Properties that
are not individually significant are aggregated by groups and amortized based
on development risk and average holding period. The valuation allowances are
reviewed at least annually.   

68       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Gains on sales of proved
and unproved properties are only recognized when there is neither uncertainty
about the recovery of costs applicable to any interest retained nor any
substantial obligation for future performance by the Corporation.   

  Losses on properties sold are recognized when incurred
or when the properties are held for sale and the fair value of the properties
is less than the carrying value.  

   Asset
Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities.    The Corporation incurs retirement obligations for
certain assets. The fair values of these obligations are recorded as
liabilities on a discounted basis, which is typically at the time the assets
are installed. The costs associated with these liabilities are capitalized as
part of the related assets and depreciated. Over time, the liabilities are
accreted for the change in their present value.   

  Liabilities for environmental costs are recorded when
it is probable that obligations have been incurred and the amounts can be
reasonably estimated. These liabilities are not reduced by possible recoveries
from third parties and projected cash expenditures are not discounted.   

   Foreign
Currency Translation.    The Corporation
selects the functional reporting currency for its international subsidiaries
based on the currency of the primary economic environment in which each
subsidiary operates.   

  Downstream and Chemical operations primarily use the
local currency. However, the U.S. dollar is used in countries with a history of
high inflation (primarily in Latin America) and Singapore, which predominantly
sells into the U.S. dollar export market. Upstream operations which are
relatively self-contained and integrated within a particular country, such as
Canada, the United Kingdom, Norway and continental Europe, use the local
currency. Some Upstream operations, primarily in Asia and Africa, use the U.S.
dollar because they predominantly sell crude and natural gas production into
U.S. dollar-denominated markets.   

  For all operations, gains or losses from remeasuring
foreign currency transactions into the functional currency are included in
income.   

   Stock-Based
Payments.    The Corporation awards
stock-based compensation to employees in the form of restricted stock and
restricted stock units. Compensation expense is measured by the price of the stock
at the date of grant and is recognized in income over the requisite service
period. See Note 15, Incentive Program, for further details.   

2. Accounting Changes    

  The
Corporation did not adopt authoritative guidance in 2013 that had a material
impact on the Corporation s financial statements.   

3. Miscellaneous Financial Information    

  Research
and development expenses totaled $1,044 million in 2013, $1,042 million in 2012
and $1,044 million in 2011.   

  Net income included before-tax aggregate foreign
exchange transaction gains of $155 million and $159 million, and losses of $184
million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

  In 2013, 2012 and 2011, net income included gains of $282
million, $328 million and $292 million, respectively, attributable to the
combined effects of LIFO inventory accumulations and drawdowns. The aggregate
replacement cost of inventories was estimated to exceed their LIFO carrying
values by $21.2 billion and $21.3 billion at December 31, 2013, and 2012,
respectively.   

  Crude oil, products and merchandise as of
year-end 2013 and 2012 consist of the following:   

69       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

4.     Other Comprehensive Income
Information   

Amounts
  Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other   

Comprehensive
  Income - Before-tax Income/(Expense)   

2013    

2012    

2011    

(millions of dollars)   

Foreign
  exchange translation gain/(loss) included in net income  

(Statement of
  Income line: Other income)  

23   

4,352   

-   

Amortization
  and settlement of postretirement benefits reserves  

adjustment
  included in net periodic benefit costs    (1)    

(2,616)   

(3,621)  

(1,761)  

Realized gain
  from settled cash flow hedges included in net income  

(Statement of
  Income line: Sales and other operating revenue)  

-   

-   

133   

(1)        
    These
accumulated other comprehensive income components are included in the
computation of net periodic pension cost. (See Note 17   Pension and Other
Postretirement Benefits for additional details.)   

70       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

5. Cash Flow
Information    

  The
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows provides information about changes in cash
and cash equivalents. Highly liquid investments with maturities of three months
or less when acquired are classified as cash equivalents.   

  The  Net (gain) on asset sales  in net cash provided
by operating activities on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows includes
before-tax gains from the sale of a partial interest in Iraq, the sale of
Downstream affiliates in the Caribbean and the sale of service stations in
2013; the Japan restructuring, the sale of an Upstream property in Angola, exchanges
of Upstream  properties, the sale of U.S. service stations, and the sale of the
Downstream affiliates in Malaysia and Switzerland in 2012; and from the sale of
some Upstream Canadian, U.K. and other producing properties and assets, and the
sale of U.S. service stations in 2011.  These gains are reported in  Other
income  on the Consolidated Statement of Income.   

  In 2012, the Corporation s interest in a cost company
was redeemed.  As part of the redemption, a variable note due in 2035 issued by
Mobil Services (Bahamas) Ltd. was assigned to a consolidated ExxonMobil
affiliate.  This note is no longer classified as third party long-term debt. 
This assignment did not result in a  Reduction in long-term debt  on the
Statement of Cash Flows.  

  In 2012, ExxonMobil completed asset exchanges,
primarily noncash transactions, of approximately $1 billion.  This amount is
not included in the  Sales of subsidiaries, investments, and property, plant
and equipment  or the  Additions to property, plant and equipment  lines on the
Statement of Cash Flows.  

  In 2011, included in  Proceeds associated with sales
of subsidiaries, property, plant and equipment, and sales and returns of
investments  is a $3.6 billion deposit for an asset that was sold in 2012.  

6. Additional Working
Capital Information    

The
Corporation has short-term committed lines of credit of $5.9 billion which were
unused as of December 31, 2013.  The majority of these lines are available for
general corporate purposes, however $0.5 billion has been designated as
specifically supporting commercial paper programs. The weighted-average
interest rate on short-term borrowings outstanding was 0.4 percent and 1.7
percent at December 31, 2013, and 2012, respectively.   

71       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

7. Equity Company
Information    

  The
summarized financial information below includes amounts related to certain
less-than-majority-owned companies and majority-owned subsidiaries where
minority shareholders possess the right to participate in significant
management decisions (see Note 1).  These companies are primarily engaged in
oil and gas exploration and production, natural gas marketing and refining
operations in North America; natural gas exploration, production and
distribution, and downstream operations in Europe; and research, exploration,
production, liquefied natural gas (LNG) operations, refining operations,
petrochemical manufacturing, fuel sales and power generation in Asia. Also
included are several refining, petrochemical manufacturing and marketing
ventures.   

  The Corporation s ownership in these ventures is
in the form of shares in corporate joint ventures as well as interests in
partnerships. Differences between the company s carrying value of an equity
investment and its underlying equity in the net assets of the affiliate are
assigned to the extent practicable to specific assets and liabilities based on
the company s analysis of the factors giving rise to the difference.  The
amortization of this difference, as appropriate, is included in  income from
equity affiliates.    

  The share of total equity company revenues from
sales to ExxonMobil consolidated companies was 13 percent, 16 percent and 19
percent in the years 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  

  In 2013, the Corporation and Rosneft established
various entities to conduct exploration and research activities.  Periods of
disproportionate funding will result in the Corporation recognizing, during the
early phases of the projects, an investment that is larger than its equity
share of these entities.  These joint ventures are considered Variable Interest
Entities (VIEs).  However, since the Corporation is not the primary beneficiary
of these entities the joint ventures are reported as equity companies.  The
Corporation s maximum exposure to loss from these joint ventures is limited to
its investment of $0.1 billion and firm commitments of $1.1 billion at December
31, 2013.  

72       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

A list of significant equity companies as of
December 31, 2013, together with the Corporation s percentage ownership
interest, is detailed below:  

Percentage   

Ownership   

Interest   

Upstream   

Aera Energy LLC  

48   

BEB Erdgas und
  Erdoel GmbH   Co. KG  

50   

Cameroon Oil
  Transportation Company S.A.  

41   

Castle Peak
  Power Company Limited  

60   

Cross Timbers
  Energy, LLC  

50   

Golden Pass LNG
  Terminal LLC  

18   

Karmorneftegaz
  Holding SARL  

33   

LLC Arctic
  Research and Design Center For Continental Shelf Development  

33   

Nederlandse
  Aardolie Maatschappij B.V.  

50   

Qatar Liquefied
  Gas Company Limited  

10   

Qatar Liquefied
  Gas Company Limited (2)  

24   

Ras Laffan
  Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited  

25   

Ras Laffan
  Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (II)  

31   

Ras Laffan
  Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (3)  

30   

South Hook LNG
  Terminal Company Limited  

24   

Tengizchevroil,
  LLP  

25   

Terminale GNL
  Adriatico S.r.l.  

71   

Trizneft Pilot
  SARL  

49   

Tuapsemorneftegaz
  Holding SARL  

33   

Downstream   

Chalmette
  Refining, LLC  

50   

Fujian Refining
    Petrochemical Co. Ltd.  

25   

Saudi Aramco
  Mobil Refinery Company Ltd.  

50   

TonenGeneral
  Sekiyu K.K.  

22   

Chemical   

Al-Jubail
  Petrochemical Company  

50   

Infineum
  Holdings B.V.  

50   

Infineum USA
  L.P.  

50   

Saudi Yanbu
  Petrochemical Co.  

50   

8. Investments, Advances and Long-Term
Receivables   

73       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

9. Property, Plant and Equipment and Asset Retirement Obligations    

In the
Upstream segment, depreciation is generally on a unit-of-production basis, so
depreciable life will vary by field. In the Downstream segment, investments in
refinery and lubes basestock manufacturing facilities are generally depreciated
on a straight-line basis over a 25-year life and service station buildings and
fixed improvements over a 20-year life. In the Chemical segment, investments in
process equipment are generally depreciated on a straight-line basis over a
20-year life.   

  Accumulated depreciation and depletion totaled $190,867
million at the end of 2013 and $182,365 million at the end of 2012. Interest
capitalized in 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $309 million, $506 million and $593
million, respectively.   

Asset Retirement Obligations    

  The
Corporation incurs retirement obligations for certain assets. The fair values
of these obligations are recorded as liabilities on a discounted basis, which
is typically at the time the assets are installed. In the estimation of fair
value, the Corporation uses assumptions and judgments regarding such factors as
the existence of a legal obligation for an asset retirement obligation;
technical assessments of the assets; estimated amounts and timing of
settlements; discount rates; and inflation rates. Asset retirement obligations
incurred in the current period were Level 3 (unobservable inputs) fair value
measurements. The costs associated with these liabilities are capitalized as
part of the related assets and depreciated as the reserves are produced. Over
time, the liabilities are accreted for the change in their present value.   

  Asset retirement obligations for downstream and
chemical facilities generally become firm at the time the facilities are
permanently shut down and dismantled. These obligations may include the costs
of asset disposal and additional soil remediation. However, these sites have
indeterminate lives based on plans for continued operations and as such, the
fair value of the conditional legal obligations cannot be measured, since it is
impossible to estimate the future settlement dates of such obligations.   

  The following table summarizes the
activity in the liability for asset retirement obligations:   

74       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

10. Accounting for
Suspended Exploratory Well Costs    

  The
Corporation continues capitalization of exploratory well costs when the
well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a
producing well and the Corporation is making sufficient progress assessing
the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. The term
 project  as used in this report can refer to a variety of different activities
and does not necessarily have the same meaning as in any government payment
transparency reports.  

  The following two tables provide details of the
changes in the balance of suspended exploratory well costs as well as an aging
summary of those costs.  

  Change
in capitalized suspended exploratory well costs:   

Period end capitalized suspended exploratory well
costs:   

Exploration
activity often involves drilling multiple wells, over a number of years, to
fully evaluate a project. The table below provides a numerical breakdown of the
number of projects with suspended exploratory well costs which had their first
capitalized well drilled in the preceding 12 months and those that have had
exploratory well costs capitalized for a period greater than 12 months.   

75       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Of the
50 projects that have exploratory well costs capitalized for a period greater
than 12 months as of December 31, 2013, 17 projects have drilling in the
preceding 12 months or exploratory activity planned in the next two years,
while the remaining 33 projects are those with completed exploratory activity
progressing toward development. The table below provides additional detail for
those 33 projects, which total $925 million.   

Years  

Dec. 31,  

Wells  

Country/Project  

2013   

Drilled  

Comment  

(millions of
  dollars)   

Angola  

- Kaombo
  Split Hub  

155   

2003 - 2012  

Multiple
  deepwater oil discoveries, progressing development plan.  

-
  Perpetua-Zinia-Acacia  

15   

2008 - 2009  

Oil field near
  Pazflor development, awaiting capacity in existing/planned infrastructure.  

Australia  

- East
  Pilchard  

9   

2001   

Gas field near
  Kipper/Tuna development, awaiting capacity in existing/planned  

infrastructure.  

- SE Longtom  

13   

2010   

Gas field near
  Tuna development, awaiting capacity in existing/planned infrastructure.  

- SE Remora  

42   

2010   

Gas field near
  Marlin development, awaiting capacity in existing/planned infrastructure.  

Indonesia  

- Alas Tua
  West  

16   

2010   

Evaluating
  development plan to tie into planned production facilities.  

- Cepu Gas  

28   

2008 - 2011  

Development
  activity under way, while continuing commercial discussions with the  

government.  

- Kedung
  Keris  

11   

2011   

Evaluating
  development plan to tie into planned production facilities.  

- Natuna  

118   

1981 - 1983  

Development
  activity under way, while continuing discussions with the government  

on contract
  terms pursuant to executed Heads of Agreement.  

Kazakhstan  

- Kairan  

53   

2004 - 2007  

Evaluating
  commercialization and field development alternatives, while continuing   

discussions
  with the government regarding the development plan.  

Malaysia  

- Besar  

18   

1992 - 2010  

Gas field off
  the east coast of Malaysia; progressing development plan.  

- Bindu  

2   

1995   

Awaiting
  capacity in existing/planned infrastructure.  

Nigeria  

- Bolia  

15   

2002 - 2006  

Evaluating
  development plan, while continuing discussions with the government  

regarding
  regional hub strategy.  

- Bosi  

79   

2002 - 2006  

Development
  activity under way, while continuing discussions with the government  

regarding
  development plan.  

- Bosi
  Central  

16   

2006   

Development
  activity under way, while continuing discussions with the government  

regarding
  development plan.  

- Owowo  

50   

2009 - 2012  

Continuing
  discussions with the government regarding contract terms.  

- Pegi  

32   

2009   

Awaiting
  capacity in existing/planned infrastructure.  

- Uge  

18   

2005 - 2008  

Evaluating
  development alternatives, while continuing discussions with the government  

regarding
  development plan.  

- Other (4
  projects)  

14   

2002   

Evaluating and
  pursuing development of several additional discoveries.  

Norway  

- Gamma  

19   

2008 - 2009  

Evaluating
  development plan for tieback to existing production facilities.  

- Other (5
  projects)  

21   

2008 - 2010  

Evaluating
  development plans, including potential for tieback to existing production  

facilities.  

Papua New
  Guinea  

- Juha  

28   

2007   

Working on
  development plans to tie into planned LNG facilities.  

- P'nyang  

58   

2012   

Working on
  development plans to tie into planned LNG facilities.  

Republic of
  Congo  

- Mer Tres
  Profonde Sud  

56   

2000 - 2007  

Evaluating
  development alternatives, while continuing discussions with the government  

regarding
  development plan.  

United Kingdom  

- Phyllis  

8   

2004   

Evaluating
  development plan for tieback to existing production facilities.  

United States  

- Tip Top  

31   

2009   

Evaluating
  development concept and requisite facility upgrades.  

Total 2013 (33
  projects)  

925   

76       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

11. Leased Facilities    

  At
December 31, 2013, the Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries held
noncancelable operating charters and leases covering drilling equipment,
tankers, service stations and other properties with minimum undiscounted lease
commitments totaling $7,438 million as indicated in the table. Estimated
related rental income from noncancelable subleases is $95 million.   

Net rental cost under both cancelable and
noncancelable operating leases incurred during 2013, 2012 and 2011 were as
follows:   

12. Earnings Per
Share    

77       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

13. Financial
Instruments and Derivatives    

   Financial Instruments.    The fair value of financial instruments is determined
by reference to observable market data and other valuation techniques as
appropriate. The only category of financial instruments where the difference
between fair value and recorded book value is notable is long-term debt. The
estimated fair value of total long-term debt, excluding capitalized lease
obligations, was $6.8 billion and $8.0 billion at December 31, 2013, and 2012,
respectively, as compared to recorded book values of $6.5 billion and $7.5 billion
at December 31, 2013, and 2012, respectively.    

  The fair value of long-term debt by
hierarchy level at December 31, 2013, is: Level 1 $5,756 million; Level 2 $967
million; and Level 3 $64 million.  Level 1 represents quoted prices in active
markets.  Level 2 includes debt whose fair value is based upon a publicly
available index.  Level 3 involves using internal data augmented by relevant
market indicators if available.  

   Derivative
Instruments.    The Corporation s size,
strong capital structure, geographic diversity and the complementary nature of
the Upstream, Downstream and Chemical businesses reduce the Corporation s
enterprise-wide risk from changes in interest rates, currency rates and commodity
prices. As a result, the Corporation makes limited use of derivatives to
mitigate the impact of such changes. The Corporation does not engage in
speculative derivative activities or derivative trading activities nor does it
use derivatives with leveraged features. When the Corporation does enter into
derivative transactions, it is to offset exposures associated with interest
rates, foreign currency exchange rates and hydrocarbon prices that arise from
existing assets, liabilities and forecasted transactions.    

  The estimated fair value of derivative instruments
outstanding and recorded on the balance sheet was a net asset of $1 million at
year-end 2013 and a net asset of $2 million at year-end 2012. Assets and
liabilities associated with derivatives are usually recorded either in  Other
current assets  or  Accounts payable and accrued liabilities.    

  The Corporation s fair value measurement of its
derivative instruments use either Level 1 (observable quoted prices on active
exchanges) or Level 2 (derivatives that are determined by either market prices
on an active market for similar assets or by prices quoted by a broker or other
market-corroborated prices) inputs.   

  The Corporation recognized a before-tax gain or (loss)
related to derivative instruments of $(7) million, $(23) million and $131 million
during 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Income statement effects associated
with derivatives are usually recorded either in  Sales and other operating
revenue  or  Crude oil and product purchases.     

  The Corporation believes there are no material market
or credit risks to the Corporation s financial position, results of operations
or liquidity as a result of the derivative activities described above.   

78       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

14. Long-Term Debt    

  At
December 31, 2013, long-term debt consisted of $6,542 million due
in U.S. dollars and $349 million representing the U.S. dollar equivalent
at year-end exchange rates of amounts payable in foreign currencies. These
amounts exclude that portion of long-term debt, totaling $1,034 million, which
matures within one year and is included in current liabilities. The amounts of
long-term debt maturing in each of the four years after December 31, 2014,
in millions of dollars, are: 2015   $782; 2016   $513; 2017   $857;
and 2018   $900.    

  Summarized long-term debt at year-end 2013 and 2012
are shown in the table below:   

(1)   Includes premiums of $271
million in 2013 and $326 million in 2012.   

   (2)   Average effective interest rate
of 0.5% in 2012.    

   (3)   Average effective interest rate
of 4.6% in 2013 and 4.6% in 2012.    

   (4)   Average effective interest rate
of 3.3% in 2013 and 3.5% in 2012.    

   (5)   Average effective interest rate
of 0.1% in 2013 and 0.1% in 2012.    

   (6)   Average effective interest rate
of 4.4% in 2013 and 2.7% in 2012.   

   (7)   Average imputed interest rate
of 7.8% in 2013 and 7.6% in 2012.   

The
Corporation has long-term committed lines of credit of $0.6 billion which were
unused as of December 31, 2013. Of this total, $0.5 billion supports commercial
paper programs.   

79       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

15. Incentive Program    

  The 2003 Incentive Program provides for grants of
stock options, stock appreciation rights (SARs), restricted stock and other
forms of award. Awards may be granted to eligible employees of the Corporation
and those affiliates at least 50 percent owned. Outstanding awards are subject
to certain forfeiture provisions contained in the program or award instrument.
Options and SARs may be granted at prices not less than 100 percent of market
value on the date of grant and have a maximum life of 10 years. The maximum
number of shares of stock that may be issued under the 2003 Incentive Program
is 220 million. Awards that are forfeited, expire or are settled in cash, do
not count against this maximum limit. The 2003 Incentive Program does not have
a specified term. New awards may be made until the available shares are
depleted, unless the Board terminates the plan early. At the end of 2013,
remaining shares available for award under the 2003 Incentive Program were 117     million.    

   Restricted
Stock and Restricted Stock Units.    Awards
totaling 9,729 thousand, 10,017 thousand, and 10,533 thousand of
restricted (nonvested) common stock and restricted (nonvested) common stock
units were granted in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Compensation expense
for these awards is based on the price of the stock at the date of grant and is
recognized in income over the requisite service period. Shares for these awards
are issued to employees from treasury stock. The units that are settled in cash
are recorded as liabilities and their changes in fair value are recognized over
the vesting period. During the applicable restricted periods, the shares and
units may not be sold or transferred and are subject to forfeiture. The
majority of the awards have graded vesting periods, with 50 percent of the
shares and units in each award vesting after three years and the remaining 50
percent vesting after seven years. Awards granted to a small number of senior
executives have vesting periods of five years for 50 percent of the award and
of 10 years or retirement, whichever occurs later, for the remaining 50 percent
of the award.   

  The Corporation has purchased shares in the open
market and through negotiated transactions to offset shares issued in
conjunction with benefit plans and programs. Purchases may be discontinued at
any time without prior notice.  

  The following tables summarize information about
restricted stock and restricted stock units for the year ended
December 31, 2013.   

As of
December 31, 2013, there was $2,269 million of unrecognized compensation
cost related to the nonvested restricted awards. This cost is expected to be
recognized over a weighted-average period of 4.5 years. The compensation cost
charged against income for the restricted stock and restricted stock units was
$854 million, $854 million and $793 million for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
The income tax benefit recognized in income related to this compensation
expense was $78 million, $79 million and $73 million for the same periods,
respectively. The fair value of shares and units vested in 2013, 2012 and 2011
was $1,040 million, $926 million and $801 million, respectively. Cash payments
of $67 million, $66 million and $46 million for vested restricted stock units
settled in cash were made in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  

   Stock
Options.    The Corporation has not
granted any stock options under the 2003 Incentive Program and all stock
options granted under the prior program were exercised by the end of 2011. In
2010, the Corporation granted 12,393 thousand of converted XTO stock options of
which 1,506 thousand stock options, with an average exercise price of $85.57,
were outstanding as of December 31, 2013.  

80       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

16. Litigation and
Other Contingencies    

   Litigation.
   A variety of claims have been made
against ExxonMobil and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries in a number of
pending lawsuits. Management has regular litigation reviews, including updates
from corporate and outside counsel, to assess the need for accounting
recognition or disclosure of these contingencies. The Corporation accrues an
undiscounted liability for those contingencies where the incurrence of a loss
is probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If a range of amounts
can be reasonably estimated and no amount within the range is a better estimate
than any other amount, then the minimum of the range is accrued. The
Corporation does not record liabilities when the likelihood that the liability
has been incurred is probable but the amount cannot be reasonably estimated or
when the liability is believed to be only reasonably possible or remote. For
contingencies where an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible and which are
significant, the Corporation discloses the nature of the contingency and, where
feasible, an estimate of the possible loss. For purposes of our contingency
disclosures,  significant  includes material matters as well as other matters
which management believes should be disclosed. ExxonMobil will continue to
defend itself vigorously in these matters. Based on a consideration of all
relevant facts and circumstances, the Corporation does not believe the ultimate
outcome of any currently pending lawsuit against ExxonMobil will have a
material adverse effect upon the Corporation s operations, financial condition,
or financial statements taken as a whole.  

   Other
Contingencies.    The Corporation and
certain of its consolidated subsidiaries were contingently liable at December
31, 2013, for guarantees relating to notes, loans and performance under
contracts. Where guarantees for environmental remediation and other similar
matters do not include a stated cap, the amounts reflect management s estimate
of the maximum potential exposure.   

Additionally,
the Corporation and its affiliates have numerous long-term sales and purchase
commitments in their various business activities, all of which are expected to
be fulfilled with no adverse consequences material to the Corporation s
operations or financial condition. Unconditional purchase obligations as
defined by accounting standards are those long-term commitments that are
noncancelable or cancelable only under certain conditions, and that third
parties have used to secure financing for the facilities that will provide the
contracted goods or services.  

(1)   Undiscounted obligations of $1,236
million mainly pertain to pipeline throughput agreements and include $457
million of obligations to equity companies. The present value of these
commitments, which excludes imputed interest of $267 million, totaled $969
million.    

81       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

In
accordance with a nationalization decree issued by Venezuela s president in
February 2007, by May 1, 2007, a subsidiary of the Venezuelan National Oil
Company (PdVSA) assumed the operatorship of the Cerro Negro Heavy Oil Project.
This Project had been operated and owned by ExxonMobil affiliates holding a
41.67 percent ownership interest in the Project. The decree also required
conversion of the Cerro Negro Project into a  mixed enterprise  and an increase
in PdVSA s or one of its affiliate s ownership interest in the Project, with
the stipulation that if ExxonMobil refused to accept the terms for the formation
of the mixed enterprise within a specified period of time, the government would
 directly assume the activities  carried out by the joint venture. ExxonMobil
refused to accede to the terms proffered by the government, and on June 27,
2007, the government expropriated ExxonMobil s 41.67 percent interest in the
Cerro Negro Project. ExxonMobil s remaining net book investment in Cerro Negro
producing assets is about $750 million.   

  On September 6, 2007, affiliates of ExxonMobil filed a
Request for Arbitration with the International Centre for Settlement of
Investment Disputes (ICSID) invoking ICSID jurisdiction under Venezuela s
Investment Law and the Netherlands-Venezuela Bilateral Investment Treaty. The
ICSID Tribunal issued a decision on June 10, 2010, finding that it had
jurisdiction to proceed on the basis of the Netherlands-Venezuela Bilateral
Investment Treaty. The ICSID arbitration proceeding is continuing and a hearing
on the merits was held in February 2012. At this time, the net impact of these
matters on the Corporation s consolidated financial results cannot be
reasonably estimated. Regardless, the Corporation does not expect the
resolution to have a material effect upon the Corporation s operations or
financial condition.   

  An affiliate of ExxonMobil is one of the Contractors
under a Production Sharing Contract (PSC) with the Nigerian National Petroleum
Corporation (NNPC) covering the Erha block located in the offshore waters of
Nigeria. ExxonMobil s affiliate is the operator of the block and owns a
56.25 percent interest under the PSC. The Contractors are in dispute with
NNPC regarding NNPC s lifting of crude oil in excess of its entitlement under
the terms of the PSC. In accordance with the terms of the PSC, the
Contractors initiated arbitration in Abuja, Nigeria, under the Nigerian
Arbitration and Conciliation Act. On October 24, 2011, a three-member
arbitral Tribunal issued an award upholding the Contractors  position in all
material respects and awarding damages to the Contractors jointly in an amount
of approximately $1.8 billion plus $234 million in accrued interest. The
Contractors petitioned a Nigerian federal court for enforcement of the award,
and NNPC petitioned the same court to have the award set aside.   On May 22, 2012, the court set aside the
award.  The Contractors have appealed that judgment.   In June 2013, the Contractors filed a lawsuit
against NNPC in the Nigerian federal high court in order to preserve their
ability to seek enforcement of the PSC in the courts if necessary. At this time,
the net impact of this matter on the Corporation s consolidated financial
results cannot be reasonably estimated. However, regardless of the outcome
of enforcement proceedings, the Corporation does not expect the proceedings to
have a material effect upon the Corporation s operations or financial
condition.  

82       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

17. Pension and Other
Postretirement Benefits    

  The
benefit obligations and plan assets associated with the Corporation s principal
benefit plans are measured on December 31.   

(1)         Benefit
payments for funded and unfunded plans.   

   (2)         For
2013 and 2012, other postretirement benefits paid are net of $20 million and $23
million of Medicare subsidy receipts, respectively.   

For
selection of the discount rate for U.S. plans, several sources of information
are considered, including interest rate market indicators and the discount rate
determined by constructing a portfolio of high-quality, noncallable bonds with
cash flows that match estimated outflows for benefit payments.  For major
non-U.S. plans, the discount rate is determined by using bond portfolios
with an average maturity approximating that of the liabilities or spot yield
curves, both of which are constructed using high-quality,
local-currency-denominated bonds.   

  The measurement of the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation assumes a health care cost trend rate of 4.5
percent in 2015 and subsequent years. A one-percentage-point increase in
the health care cost trend rate would increase service and interest cost
by $68 million and the postretirement benefit obligation by $734 million. A
one-percentage-point decrease in the health care cost trend rate would decrease
service and interest cost by $53 million and the postretirement benefit
obligation by $597 million.  

(1)   Benefit payments for funded
plans.    

83       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

The
funding levels of all qualified pension plans are in compliance
with standards set by applicable law or regulation. As shown in the table
below, certain smaller U.S. pension plans and a number of non-U.S. pension
plans are not funded because local tax conventions and regulatory
practices do not encourage funding of these plans. All defined benefit pension
obligations, regardless of the funding status of the underlying plans, are
fully supported by the financial strength of the Corporation or the
respective sponsoring affiliate.   

The
authoritative guidance for defined benefit pension and other postretirement
plans requires an employer to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of
a defined benefit postretirement plan as an asset or liability in its statement
of financial position and to recognize changes in that funded status in the
year in which the changes occur through other comprehensive income.   

(1)        
    Fair value of assets less
benefit obligation shown on the preceding page.   

84       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

The
long-term expected rate of return on funded assets shown below is established
for each benefit plan by developing a forward-looking, long-term return
assumption for each asset class, taking into account factors such as the
expected real return for the specific asset class and inflation. A single,
long-term rate of return is then calculated as the weighted average of the
target asset allocation percentages and the long-term return assumption for
each asset class.  

Costs
for defined contribution plans were $392 million, $382 million and $378 million
in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

85       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

A summary of the change in accumulated other
comprehensive income is shown in the table below:   

The
Corporation s investment strategy for benefit plan assets reflects
a long-term view, a careful assessment of the risks inherent in various
asset classes and broad diversification to reduce the risk of the portfolio.
The benefit plan assets are primarily invested in passive equity and
fixed income index funds to diversify risk while minimizing costs. The
equity funds hold ExxonMobil stock only to the extent necessary to replicate
the relevant equity index. The fixed income funds are largely invested in high-quality
corporate and government debt securities.   

  Studies are periodically conducted to establish the
preferred target asset allocation percentages. The target asset allocation for
the U.S. benefit plans is 50 percent equity securities and 50 percent debt
securities. The target asset allocation for the non-U.S. plans in aggregate is 49
percent equity securities and 51 percent debt securities. The equity targets
for the U.S. and non-U.S. plans include an allocation to private equity
partnerships that primarily focus on early-stage venture capital of 5 percent
and 3 percent, respectively.   

  The fair value measurement levels are accounting terms
that refer to different methods of valuing assets. The terms do not represent
the relative risk or credit quality of an investment.   

86       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

The 2013 fair value of the benefit plan assets,
including the level within the fair value hierarchy, is shown in the tables
below:  

(1)   For U.S. and non-U.S. equity
securities held in the form of fund units that are redeemable at the
measurement date, the unit value is treated as a Level 2 input. The fair value
of the securities owned by the funds is based on observable quoted prices on
active exchanges, which are Level 1 inputs.   

   (2)   For non-U.S. equity securities
held in separate accounts, fair value is based on observable quoted prices on
active exchanges.    

   (3)   For private equity, fair value
is generally established by using revenue or earnings multiples or other
relevant market data including Initial Public Offerings.    

   (4)   For corporate, government and
asset-backed debt securities, fair value is based on observable inputs of
comparable market transactions.    

   (5)   For corporate and government
debt securities that are traded on active exchanges, fair value is based on
observable quoted prices.    

   (6)   For real estate funds, fair
value is based on appraised values developed using comparable market
transactions.    

   (7)   For cash balances held in the
form of short-term fund units that are redeemable at the measurement date, the
fair value is treated as a Level 2 input.   

   (8)   For cash balances that are
subject to withdrawal penalties or other adjustments, the fair value is treated
as a Level 2 input.   

87       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

(1)        
    For U.S. and non-U.S.
equity securities held in the form of fund units that are redeemable at the
measurement date, the unit value is treated as a Level 2 input. The fair value
of the securities owned by the funds is based on observable quoted prices on
active exchanges, which are Level 1 inputs.   

   (2)        
    For private equity, fair
value is generally established by using revenue or earnings multiples or other
relevant market data including Initial Public Offerings.    

   (3)        
    For corporate, government
and asset-backed debt securities, fair value is based on observable inputs of
comparable market transactions.    

The change in the fair value in 2013 of Level 3 assets
that use significant unobservable inputs to measure fair value is shown in the
table below:   

88       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

The 2012 fair value of the benefit plan assets,
including the level within the fair value hierarchy, is shown in the tables
below:   

(1)   For U.S. and non-U.S. equity
securities held in the form of fund units that are redeemable at the
measurement date, the unit value is treated as a Level 2 input. The fair value
of the securities owned by the funds is based on observable quoted prices on
active exchanges, which are Level 1 inputs.    

   (2)   For non-U.S. equity securities
held in separate accounts, fair value is based on observable quoted prices on
active exchanges.    

   (3)   For private equity, fair value
is generally established by using revenue or earnings multiples or other
relevant market data including Initial Public Offerings.    

   (4)   For corporate, government and
asset-backed debt securities, fair value is based on observable inputs of
comparable market transactions.    

   (5)   For corporate and government
debt securities that are traded on active exchanges, fair value is based on
observable quoted prices.    

   (6)   For real estate funds, fair
value is based on appraised values developed using comparable market
transactions.    

   (7)   For cash balances held in the
form of short-term fund units that are redeemable at the measurement date, the
fair value is treated as a Level 2 input.   

   (8)   For cash balances that are
subject to withdrawal penalties or other adjustments, the fair value is treated
as a Level 2 input.   

89       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

(1)   For U.S. and non-U.S. equity
securities held in the form of fund units that are redeemable at the
measurement date, the unit value is treated as a Level 2 input. The fair value
of the securities owned by the funds is based on observable quoted prices on active
exchanges, which are Level 1 inputs.    

   (2)   For private equity, fair value
is generally established by using revenue or earnings multiples or other
relevant market data including Initial Public Offerings.    

   (3)   For corporate, government and
asset-backed debt securities, fair value is based on observable inputs of
comparable market transactions.    

The change in the fair value in 2012 of Level 3 assets
that use significant unobservable inputs to measure fair value is shown in the
table below:   

90       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

A summary of pension plans with an accumulated benefit
obligation in excess of plan assets is shown in the table below:   

(1)   The Corporation amortizes the
net balance of actuarial losses/(gains) as a component of net periodic benefit
cost over the average remaining service period of active plan participants.    

   (2)   The Corporation amortizes prior
service cost on a straight-line basis as permitted under authoritative guidance
for defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans.    

18.
Disclosures about Segments and Related Information    

  The
Upstream, Downstream and Chemical functions best define the operating segments
of the business that are reported separately. The factors used to identify
these reportable segments are based on the nature of the operations that are
undertaken by each segment. The Upstream segment is organized and operates to
explore for and produce crude oil and natural gas. The Downstream segment is
organized and operates to manufacture and sell petroleum products. The Chemical
segment is organized and operates to manufacture and sell petrochemicals. These
segments are broadly understood across the petroleum and petrochemical
industries.   

  These functions have been defined as the operating
segments of the Corporation because they are the segments (1) that engage
in business activities from which revenues are earned and expenses are
incurred; (2) whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the
Corporation s chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources
to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance; and (3) for
which discrete financial information is available.   

  Earnings after income tax include transfers at
estimated market prices.   

91       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

In corporate and financing
activities, interest revenue relates to interest earned on cash deposits and
marketable securities. Interest expense includes non-debt-related interest
expense of $202 million and $165 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively. For
2013, non-debt-related interest expense was a net credit of $123 million,
primarily reflecting the effect of credits from the favorable resolution of
prior year tax positions.  

(1)        
    Sales and other operating
revenue includes sales-based taxes of $30,589 million for 2013, $32,409 million
for 2012 and $33,503 million for 2011. See Note 1, Summary of Accounting
Policies.    

92       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

(1)  Sales and other operating
revenue includes sales-based taxes of $30,589 million for 2013, $32,409 million
for 2012 and $33,503 million for 2011. See Note 1, Summary of Accounting
Policies.    

93       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

19. Income, Sales-Based and Other Taxes    

All
other taxes and duties include taxes reported in production and manufacturing
and selling, general and administrative (SG A) expenses. The above
provisions for deferred income taxes include net credits of $310 million in
2013 and $330 million in 2011 and a net charge of $244 million in 2012 for the
effect of changes in tax laws and rates.   

The reconciliation between income tax
expense and a theoretical U.S. tax computed by applying a rate of 35
percent for 2013, 2012 and 2011 is as follows:   

94       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Deferred
income taxes reflect the impact of temporary differences between the amount of
assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting purposes and such
amounts recognized for tax purposes.   

  Deferred tax liabilities/(assets) are
comprised of the following at December 31:   

Deferred
income tax (assets) and liabilities are included in the balance sheet as shown
below. Deferred income tax (assets) and liabilities are classified as current
or long term consistent with the classification of the related temporary
difference   separately by tax jurisdiction.   

The
Corporation had $47 billion of indefinitely reinvested, undistributed
earnings from subsidiary companies outside the U.S. Unrecognized deferred taxes
on remittance of these funds are not expected to be material.   

95       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Unrecognized Tax Benefits.    The Corporation is subject to income taxation in many
jurisdictions around the world. Unrecognized tax benefits reflect the
difference between positions taken or expected to be taken on income tax
returns and the amounts recognized in the financial statements. Resolution of
the related tax positions through negotiations with the relevant tax
authorities or through litigation will take many years to complete. It is
difficult to predict the timing of resolution for tax positions since such
timing is not entirely within the control of the Corporation. It is reasonably
possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits could increase by up
to 20 percent in the next 12 months, with no material impact on near-term
earnings. Given the long time periods involved in resolving tax positions, the
Corporation does not expect that the recognition of unrecognized tax benefits
will have a material impact on the Corporation s effective income tax rate in
any given year.   

  The following table summarizes the movement in
unrecognized tax benefits.   

The
additions and reductions in unrecognized tax benefits shown above include
effects related to net income and equity, and timing differences for which the
ultimate deductibility is highly certain but for which there is uncertainty
about the timing of such deductibility. The 2013, 2012 and 2011 changes in
unrecognized tax benefits did not have a material effect on the Corporation s
net income or cash flow.   

  The following table summarizes the tax
years that remain subject to examination by major tax jurisdiction:   

The
Corporation classifies interest on income tax-related balances as interest
expense or interest income and classifies tax-related penalties as operating
expense.   

  For 2013, the Corporation s net interest expense was a
credit of $207 million, reflecting the effect of credits from the favorable
resolution of prior year tax positions. The Corporation incurred $46 million and
$62 million in interest expense on income tax reserves in 2012 and 2011,
respectively. The related interest payable balances were $156 million and $385
million at December 31, 2013, and 2012, respectively.   

96       

SUPPLEMENTAL    

    INFORMATION          ON          OIL          AND          GAS          EXPLORATION          AND          PRODUCTION          ACTIVITIES          (unaudited)    

The results of operations for producing activities
shown below do not include earnings from other activities that ExxonMobil
includes in the Upstream function, such as oil and gas transportation
operations, LNG liquefaction and transportation operations, coal and power
operations, technical service agreements, other nonoperating activities and
adjustments for noncontrolling interests. These excluded amounts for both
consolidated and equity companies totaled $886 million in 2013, $2,832 million
in 2012, and $2,600 million in 2011. Oil sands mining operations are included
in the results of operations in accordance with Securities and Exchange
Commission and Financial Accounting Standards Board rules.   

97       

98       

Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Costs    

  The amounts shown for net capitalized costs of
consolidated subsidiaries are $13,667 million less at year-end 2013 and $10,643
million less at year-end 2012 than the amounts reported as investments in
property, plant and equipment for the Upstream in Note 9. This is due
to the exclusion from capitalized costs of certain transportation and
research assets and assets relating to LNG operations. Assets related to oil
sands and oil shale mining operations are included in the capitalized costs in
accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board rules.  

99       

Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Costs
(continued)    

  The
amounts reported as costs incurred include both capitalized costs and costs
charged to expense during the year. Costs incurred also include new asset
retirement obligations established in the current year, as well as increases or
decreases to the asset retirement obligation resulting from changes in cost
estimates or abandonment date. Total consolidated costs incurred in 2013 were $33,623
million, up $2,477 million from 2012, due primarily to higher property
acquisition costs partially offset by lower exploration costs. 2012 costs were $31,146
million, up $392 million from 2011, due primarily to higher exploration and
development costs partially offset by lower property acquisition costs. Total
equity company costs incurred in 2013 were $2,342 million, up $938 million from
2012, due primarily to higher exploration and development costs.   

100       

Oil and Gas Reserves    

  The following information describes changes during the
years and balances of proved oil and gas reserves at year-end 2011, 2012, and
2013.   

  The definitions used are in accordance with the
Securities and Exchange Commission s Rule 4-10 (a) of Regulation S-X.   

  Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities of
oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be
estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible   from a
given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic
conditions, operating methods and government regulations   prior to the time at
which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence
indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. In some cases, substantial new
investments in additional wells and related facilities will be required to
recover these proved reserves.   

  In accordance with the Securities and Exchange
Commission s rules, the year-end reserves volumes as well as the reserves
change categories shown in the following tables were calculated using average
prices during the 12-month period prior to the ending date of the period
covered by the report, determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the
first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period. These reserves
quantities are also used in calculating unit-of-production depreciation rates
and in calculating the standardized measure of discounted net cash flow.   

  Revisions can include upward or downward changes in
previously estimated volumes of proved reserves for existing fields due to the
evaluation or re-evaluation of (1) already available geologic, reservoir
or production data, (2) new geologic, reservoir or production data or
(3) changes in average prices and year-end costs that are used in the estimation
of reserves. This category can also include significant changes in either
development strategy or production equipment/facility capacity.   

  Proved reserves include 100 percent of each
majority-owned affiliate s participation in proved reserves and ExxonMobil s
ownership percentage of the proved reserves of equity companies, but exclude
royalties and quantities due others. Gas reserves exclude the gaseous
equivalent of liquids expected to be removed from the gas on leases, at field
facilities and at gas processing plants. These liquids are included in net
proved reserves of crude oil and natural gas liquids.   

  In the proved reserves tables, consolidated reserves
and equity company reserves are reported separately. However, the Corporation
does not view equity company reserves any differently than those from
consolidated companies.   

  Reserves reported under production sharing and other
nonconcessionary agreements are based on the economic interest as defined by
the specific fiscal terms in the agreement. The production and reserves that we
report for these types of arrangements typically vary inversely with oil and
gas price changes. As oil and gas prices increase, the cash flow and value
received by the company increase; however, the production volumes and reserves
required to achieve this value will typically be lower because of the higher
prices. When prices decrease, the opposite effect generally occurs. The
percentage of total liquids and natural gas proved reserves (consolidated
subsidiaries plus equity companies) at year-end 2013 that were associated with
production sharing contract arrangements was 11 percent of liquids, 9 percent
of natural gas and 10 percent on an oil-equivalent basis (gas converted to
oil-equivalent at 6 billion cubic feet = 1 million barrels).   

  Net proved developed reserves are those volumes that
are expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and
operating methods or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively
minor compared to the cost of a new well. Net proved undeveloped reserves are
those volumes that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled
acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is
required for recompletion.   

  Crude oil and natural gas liquids and natural gas
production quantities shown are the net volumes withdrawn from ExxonMobil s oil
and gas reserves. The natural gas quantities differ from the quantities of gas
delivered for sale by the producing function as reported in the Operating Summary
due to volumes consumed or flared and inventory changes.   

  The changes between 2012 year-end proved reserves and
2013 year-end proved reserves reflect the extensions and discoveries in the
United States and the Middle East.  

101       

(    See     
footnote on next page)    

102       

(1)   Includes total proved reserves
attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 10 million barrels in 2011, 9 million
barrels in 2012 and 11 million barrels in 2013, as well as proved developed
reserves of 10 million barrels in 2011, 9 million barrels in 2012 and 9 million
barrels in 2013, and in addition, proved undeveloped reserves of 2 million
barrels in 2013, in which there is a 30.4 percent noncontrolling interest.   

103       

(1)   Includes total proved reserves
attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 55 million barrels in 2011, 53 million
barrels in 2012 and 62 million barrels in 2013, as well as proved developed
reserves of 55 million barrels in 2011, 52 million barrels in 2012 and 55
million barrels in 2013, and in addition, proved undeveloped reserves of 1
million barrels in 2012 and 7 million barrels in 2013, in which there is a 30.4
percent noncontrolling interest.    

   (2)   Includes total proved reserves
attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 2,413 million barrels in 2011, 2,841
million barrels in 2012 and 2,867 million barrels in 2013, as well as proved
developed reserves of 519 million barrels in 2011, 543 million barrels in 2012
and 1,417 million barrels in 2013, and in addition, proved undeveloped reserves
of 1,894 million barrels in 2011, 2,298 million barrels in 2012 and 1,450
million barrels in 2013, in which there is a 30.4 percent noncontrolling
interest.    

   (3)   Includes total proved reserves
attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 653 million barrels in 2011, 599
million barrels in 2012 and 579 million barrels in 2013, as well as proved
developed reserves of 653 million barrels in 2011, 599 million barrels in 2012
and 579 million barrels in 2013, in which there is a 30.4 percent
noncontrolling interest.    

   (4)   See previous pages for natural
gas liquids proved reserves attributable to consolidated subsidiaries and
equity companies. For additional information on natural gas liquids proved
reserves see Item 2. Properties in ExxonMobil s 2013 Form 10-K.    

104       

(See footnotes
on next page)    

105       

(1)   Includes total proved reserves
attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 422 billion cubic feet in 2011, 488
billion cubic feet in 2012 and 678 billion cubic feet in 2013, as well as
proved developed reserves of 360 billion cubic feet in 2011, 374 billion cubic
feet in 2012 and 368 billion cubic feet in 2013, and in addition, proved
undeveloped reserves of 62 billion cubic feet in 2011, 114 billion cubic feet
in 2012 and 310 billion cubic feet in 2013, in which there is a 30.4 percent
noncontrolling interest.    

   (2)   Natural gas is converted to
oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels.    

106       

(See footnotes
on previous page)    

107       

Standardized Measure of Discounted
Future Cash Flows    

  As required by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board, the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows
is computed by applying first-day-of-the-month average prices,
year-end costs and legislated tax rates and a discount factor of 10
percent to net proved reserves. The standardized measure includes costs
for future dismantlement, abandonment and rehabilitation obligations.
The Corporation believes the standardized measure does not provide
a reliable estimate of the Corporation s expected future cash flows to be
obtained from the development and production of its oil and gas properties or
of the value of its proved oil and gas reserves. The standardized measure is
prepared on the basis of certain prescribed assumptions including
first-day-of-the-month average prices, which represent discrete points in time
and therefore may cause significant variability in cash flows from year to year
as prices change.   

(1)   Includes discounted future net
cash flows attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of $27,568 million in 2011, in
which there is a 30.4 percent noncontrolling interest.    

108       

(1)   Includes discounted future net
cash flows attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of $24,690 million in 2012 and
$25,160 million in 2013, in which there is a 30.4 percent noncontrolling
interest.    

109       

Change in
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Oil
and Gas Reserves    

110       

Change in
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Oil
and Gas Reserves    

111       

OPERATING SUMMARY (unaudited)     

Operating statistics include 100 percent of operations
of majority-owned subsidiaries; for other companies, crude production, gas,
petroleum product and chemical prime product sales include ExxonMobil s
ownership percentage and refining throughput includes quantities processed for
ExxonMobil. Net production excludes royalties and quantities due others when
produced, whether payment is made in kind or cash.    

   (1)   Gas converted to oil-equivalent
at 6 million cubic feet = 1 thousand barrels.    

   (2)   Petroleum product sales data
reported net of purchases/sales contracts with the same counterparty.    

   (3)   Prime product sales include
ExxonMobil s share of equity company volumes and finished-product transfers to
the Downstream.   

112       

SIGNATURES    

   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.    

EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION  

By:  

/s/    REX W.
  TILLERSON          

(Rex W. Tillerson,  
    Chairman of the Board)  

Dated February 26, 2014   

POWER
OF ATTORNEY    

   Each person whose signature appears below constitutes
and appoints Randall M. Ebner, Leonard M. Fox and Catherine C. Shae and each of
them, his or her true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power
of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her name,
place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits
thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each
of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and
thing requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes
as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all
that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them, or their or his or her
substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue
hereof.    

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated and on
February 26, 2014.    

/s/    REX
  W. TILLERSON  

(Rex W. Tillerson)  

Chairman of the Board  
    (Principal Executive Officer)  

/s/    MICHAEL
  J. BOSKIN  

(Michael J. Boskin)  

Director  

/s/    PETER
  BRABECK-LETMATHE  

(Peter Brabeck-Letmathe)  

Director  

/s/    URSULA
  M. BURNS  

(Ursula M. Burns)  

Director  

/s/    LARRY
  R. FAULKNER  

(Larry R. Faulkner)  

Director  

113       

/s/    JAY
  S. FISHMAN  

(Jay S. Fishman)  

Director  

/s/    HENRIETTA
  H. FORE  

(Henrietta H. Fore)  

Director  

/s/    KENNETH
  C. FRAZIER  

(Kenneth C. Frazier)  

Director  

/s/    WILLIAM
  W. GEORGE  

(William W. George)  

Director  

/s/    SAMUEL
  J. PALMISANO  

(Samuel J. Palmisano)  

Director  

/s/    STEVEN
  S REINEMUND  

(Steven S Reinemund)  

Director  

/s/    WILLIAM
  C. WELDON  

(William C. Weldon)  

Director  

/s/    EDWARD
  E. WHITACRE, JR.  

(Edward E. Whitacre, Jr.)  

Director  

/s/    ANDREW
  P. SWIGER  

(Andrew P. Swiger)  

Senior Vice President  
    (Principal Financial Officer)  

/s/    PATRICK
  T. MULVA  

(Patrick T. Mulva)  

Vice President and Controller  
    (Principal Accounting Officer)  

114       

INDEX TO EXHIBITS    

Exhibit   

Description   

3(i)  

Restated
  Certificate of Incorporation, as restated November 30, 1999, and as
  further amended effective June 20, 2001 (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 3(i) to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
  the quarter ended June 30, 2011).  

3(ii)  

By-Laws, as
  revised to April 27, 2011 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(ii) to the
  Registrant s Report on Form 8-K on April 29, 2011).  

10(iii)(a.1)  

2003 Incentive
  Program, as approved by shareholders May 28, 2003 (incorporated by reference
  to Exhibit 10(iii)(a.1) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
  2012).*  

10(iii)(a.2)  

Extended
  Provisions for Restricted Stock Agreements (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 99.2 to the Registrant s Report on Form 8-K of November 28,
  2012).*  

10(iii)(a.3)  

Extended
  Provisions for Restricted Stock Unit Agreements   Settlement in Shares.*  

10(iii)(a.4)  

Standard
  Provisions for Restricted Stock Unit Agreements   Settlement in Cash.*  

10(iii)(b.1)  

Short Term
  Incentive Program, as amended.*  

10(iii)(b.2)  

Earnings Bonus
  Unit instrument.*  

10(iii)(c.1)  

ExxonMobil
  Supplemental Savings Plan.*  

10(iii)(c.2)  

ExxonMobil
  Supplemental Pension Plan.*  

10(iii)(c.3)  

ExxonMobil
  Additional Payments Plan.*  

10(iii)(d)  

ExxonMobil
  Executive Life Insurance and Death Benefit Plan (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10(iii)(d) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K
  for 2011).*  

10(iii)(f.1)  

2004
  Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Plan.*  

10(iii)(f.2)  

Standing
  resolution for non-employee director restricted grants dated
  September 26, 2007 (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10(iii)(f.2) to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2012).*  

10(iii)(f.3)  

Form of
  restricted stock grant letter for non-employee directors (incorporated by
  reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(f.3) to the Registrant s Annual Report on
  Form 10-K for 2009).*  

10(iii)(f.4)  

Standing
  resolution for non-employee director cash fees dated October 26, 2011
  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(f.4) to the Registrant s
  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011).*  

10(iii)(g.3)  

1984 Mobil Compensation
  Management Retention Plan (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10(iii)(g.3) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K
  for 2011).*  

12  

Computation of
  ratio of earnings to fixed charges.  

14  

Code of Ethics
  and Business Conduct.  

21  

Subsidiaries of
  the registrant.  

23  

Consent of
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.  

31.1  

Certification
  (pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a)) by Chief
  Executive Officer.  

31.2  

Certification (pursuant
  to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a)) by Principal Financial
  Officer.  

31.3  

Certification
  (pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a)) by Principal
  Accounting Officer.  

115       

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  

(continued)   

*   Compensatory plan or arrangement
required to be identified pursuant to Item 15(a)(3) of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.   

  The registrant has not filed with this report copies
of the instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the
registrant and its subsidiaries for which consolidated or unconsolidated
financial statements are required to be filed. The registrant agrees to furnish
a copy of any such instrument to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon
request.   

116       

<EX-10.(III) (A3)>
 2
 xom10iiia3.htm
 EXTENDED PROVISIONS FOR RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENTS-SETTLEMENT IN SHARES

EXHIBIT 10(iii)(a.3)   

November 26,
2013    

   Exxon Mobil
Corporation   

   Extended
Provisions for Restricted Stock Unit Agreements - Settlement in Shares   

   1.          
     Effective
Date and Credit of Restricted Stock Units    .  If Grantee accepts the award on or before March
7, 2014, this Agreement will become effective the date the Corporation receives
the award acceptance.  After this agreement becomes effective, the Corporation
will credit to Grantee the number of restricted stock units specified in the
award package.  Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, each
restricted stock unit ( unit ) will entitle Grantee to receive in
settlement of the unit one share of the Corporation's common stock.  

2.          
     Conditions    .  If credited, the units will be
subject to the provisions of this Agreement, and to such regulations and
requirements as the administrative authority of the Program may establish from
time to time.  The units will be credited to Grantee only on the condition that
Grantee accepts such provisions, regulations, and requirements.  

3.          
     Restrictions
and Risk of Forfeiture    . 
During the applicable restricted periods specified in section 4 of this
Agreement,   

  (a)  the units under restriction may not be sold, assigned,
transferred, pledged, or otherwise disposed of or encumbered, and any attempt
to do so will be null and void; and  

  (b)  the units under restriction may be forfeited as provided in
section 6.   

4.          
     Restricted
Periods     .      The restricted periods will
commence when the units are credited to Grantee and, unless the units have been
forfeited earlier under section 6, will expire as follows, whether or not
Grantee is still an employee:  

  (a)  with   respect    to 50% of the units, on November 26, 2018; and  

  (b)  with respect to the remaining units, on the later to occur of  

            (i)   November 26, 2023, or  

            (ii)  the first day of the calendar year immediately
following the year in which Grantee terminates;  

                    except that  

  (c)  the restricted periods will
automatically expire with respect to all shares on the death of Grantee.  

5.          
     No
Obligation to Credit Units    . 
The Corporation will have no obligation to credit any units and will have no
other obligation to Grantee with respect to the subject matter of this
Agreement if Grantee fails to accept the award on or before March 7, 2014.  In
addition, whether or not Grantee has accepted the award, the Corporation will
have no obligation to credit any units and will have no other obligation to
Grantee with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement if, before the
units are credited:   

  (a)   Grantee terminates (other
than by death) before standard retirement time within the meaning of the
Program, except to the extent the administrative authority of the Program
determines Grantee may receive units under this Agreement; or   

  (b)   Grantee is determined to
have engaged in detrimental activity within the meaning of the Program; or   

  (c)   Grantee fails to provide
the Corporation with cash for any required taxes due upon crediting the units,
if Grantee is required to do so under section 7.    

6.          
     Forfeiture
of Units After Crediting    . 
Until the applicable restricted period specified in section 4 has expired, the
units under restriction will be forfeited or subject to forfeiture in the
following circumstances:  

    Termination    

  If Grantee terminates (other than by death) before standard retirement
time within the meaning of the Program, all units for which the applicable
restricted periods have not expired will be automatically forfeited as of the     date of termination,
except to the extent the administrative authority determines Grantee may retain
units issued under this Agreement.   

    Detrimental
activity    

  If Grantee is determined to have engaged in detrimental activity
within the meaning of the Program, either before or after termination, all
units for which the applicable restricted periods have not expired will be
automatically forfeited as of the date of such determination.  

1  

Attempted
transfer    

  The units are subject to forfeiture in the discretion of the
administrative authority if Grantee attempts to sell, assign, transfer, pledge,
or otherwise dispose of or encumber them during the applicable restricted
periods.  

Applicable law    

  The units
are subject to forfeiture in whole or in part as the administrative authority
deems necessary in order to comply with applicable law.   

7.          
     Taxes    .  Notwithstanding the
restrictions on transfer that otherwise apply, the Corporation in its sole
discretion may withhold units or shares, either at the time of issuance, at the
time the applicable restricted periods expire, or at any other time in order to
satisfy any required withholding, social security, and similar taxes or
contributions (collectively,  required taxes ).  Withheld units or
shares may be retained by the Corporation or sold on behalf of Grantee.  If the
Corporation does not withhold units or shares to satisfy required taxes, in the
alternative the Corporation may require Grantee to deposit with the Corporation
cash in an amount determined by the Corporation to be necessary to satisfy
required taxes.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the
Corporation will be under no obligation to credit units or to deliver shares to
Grantee in settlement of any units if Grantee fails timely to deposit such
amount with the Corporation.  The Corporation in its sole discretion may also
withhold any required taxes from dividends paid on the units.  

8.          
     Form
of Units; No Shareholder Status    . 
The units will be represented by book-entry credits in records maintained by or
on behalf of the Corporation.  Units will be unfunded and unsecured promises by
the Corporation to deliver shares in the future upon the terms and subject to
the conditions of this Agreement.  Grantee will not be a shareholder of the
Corporation with respect to units prior to the time shares are actually
registered in Grantee's name in settlement of such units in accordance with
section 9.  

9.          
     Settlement
of Units    . 
If and when the applicable restricted period expires with respect to any units,
subject to section 7, the Corporation will issue shares, free of restriction
and registered in the name of Grantee, in settlement of such units.  Such
shares will be delivered promptly after such expiration to or for the account
of Grantee either in certificated form or by book-entry transfer in accordance
with the procedures of the administrative authority in effect at the time.  

10.          
     Change
in Capitalization    . 
If during the applicable restricted periods a stock split, stock dividend, or
other relevant change in capitalization of the Corporation occurs, the
administrative authority will make such adjustments in the number of units
credited to Grantee, or in the number and type of securities deliverable to
Grantee in settlement of such units and used in determining dividend equivalent
amounts, as the administrative authority may determine to be appropriate. Any
resulting new units or securities credited with respect to previously credited
units that are still restricted under this Agreement will be delivered to and
held by or on behalf of the Corporation and will be subject to the same
provisions, restrictions, and requirements as those previously credited units.  

11.          
     Limits
on the Corporation's Obligations    . 
Notwithstanding anything else contained in this Agreement, under no
circumstances will the Corporation be required to credit any units or issue or
deliver any shares in settlement of units if doing so would violate any law or
listing requirement that the administrative authority determines to be
applicable, or if Grantee has failed to provide for required taxes pursuant to
section 7.    

12.          
     Receipt
or Access to Program    . 
Grantee acknowledges receipt of or access to the full text of the Program.  

13.          
     Dividend
Equivalents    . 
The Corporation will pay to Grantee cash with respect to each credited unit
corresponding in amount, currency, and timing to cash dividends that would be
payable with respect to a share of common stock outstanding on each record date
that occurs during the applicable restricted period.  Alternatively, the
administrative authority may determine to reinvest such dividend equivalents in
additional units which will be held subject to all the terms and conditions
otherwise applicable to units under this Agreement.  

14.          
     Addresses
for Communications    . 
To facilitate communications regarding this Agreement, Grantee agrees to notify
the Corporation promptly of changes in current mailing and email addresses. 
Communications to the Corporation in connection with this Agreement should be
directed to the Incentive Processing Office, or to such other address as the
Corporation may designate by further notice to Grantee.  

2  

15.             Transfer of Personal Data    .  The administration of the
Program and this Agreement, including any subsequent ownership of shares,
involve the collection, use, and transfer of personal data about Grantee
between and among the Corporation, selected subsidiaries and other affiliates
of the Corporation, and third-party service providers such as Morgan Stanley
and Computershare (the Corporation's transfer agent), as well as various
regulatory and tax authorities around the world.  This data includes Grantee's
name, age, date of birth, contact information, work location, employment
status, tax status, social security number, salary, nationality, job title,
share ownership, and details of incentive awards granted, cancelled, vested or
unvested, and related information.  By accepting this award, Grantee authorizes
such collection, use, and transfer of this data.  Grantee may, at any time and
without charge, view such data and require necessary corrections to it.  Such
data will at all times be held in accordance with applicable laws, regulations,
and agreements.  

16.          
     No
Employment Contract or Entitlement to Other or Future Awards    .  This Agreement, the
Corporation's incentive programs, and Grantee's selection for incentive awards
do not imply or form a part of any contract or assurance of employment, and
they do not in any way limit or restrict the ability of Grantee's employer to
terminate Grantee's employment.  Grantee acknowledges that the Corporation
maintains and administers its incentive programs entirely in its discretion and
that Grantee is not entitled to any other or future incentive awards of any
kind in addition to those that have already been granted.  

17.          
     Governing
Law and Consent to Jurisdiction    . 
This Agreement and the Program are governed by the laws of the State of New York without regard to any conflict of law rules.  Any dispute arising out of or
relating to this Agreement or the Program may be resolved in any state or
federal court located within Dallas County, Texas, U.S.A.  Grantee accepts that
venue and submits to the personal jurisdiction of any such court.  Similarly,
the Corporation accepts such venue and submits to such jurisdiction.  

18.          
     Entire
Agreement    . 
This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding between Grantee and the
Corporation with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement.  

3  

</EX-10.(III) (A3)>

<EX-10.(III) (A4)>
 3
 xom10iiia4.htm
 STANDARD PROVISIONS FOR RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENTS-SETTLEMENT IN CASH

EXHIBIT 10(iii)(a.4)   

November 24, 2009    

   Exxon Mobil
Corporation   

    Standard         Provisions          for          Restr    i    cted          Stock          Unit          Agre    e    ments          -          Settlement          in          Cash     

1.             Effective Date and Credit             of Restricted Stock Units    .  If Grantee   ac  cep  t  s
the award on   o  r be  f  ore M  a  rch
9,     2010, this A  g  ree  m  ent
will     become effective the date the
Corp  o  rat  i  on r  e  ceiv  e  s the award   a  ccepta  n  ce.      After this A  g  re  e  ment      becom  e  s
effective, the Corp  o  ration will
credit to Grantee the number of res  t  ricted      stock u  n  its
specified in the award     package.      Subject to the terms and conditions of
this     Agreement,      each res  t  ric  t  ed s  t  ock
unit ( unit ) will entitle Grantee   t  o
receive in settlement of     the unit an   a  mount in c  a  sh equal to the     f  a  ir market value of one     share of the Corp  o  rati  o  n's com  m  on st  oc  k
as   d  e  sc  rib  e  d in s  e  ction   9  .   

2.             Conditions    .  If credited, t  h  e units will   b  e      subj  e  c  t
to the provis  i  o  n  s
of this Agre  e  ment, and to s  u  ch r  e  gulat  i  ons   a  nd
requ  i  re  m  ents      as the adm  i  n  i  s  trative auth  o  rity of the Program may   e  s  t  ablish
from time to time.     T  he units will be credit  e  d to Grant  e  e only on the condition that Grant  e  e acc  e  pts s  u  ch   p  ro  v  isio  n  s  , re  g  ul  a  tions, and requ  i  re  m  ents.   

3.             Restrictions and Risk of
Forfeiture    . 
Dur  i  ng the a  p  plic  a  ble r  e  str  i  cted
p  e  rio  d  s      sp  e  c  ified
in     section 4 of th  i  s Agr  e  ement,   

  (a)     the uni  t  s und  e  r r  e  str  i  ction may not be sold,   a  ss  i  gned,
tra  n  sferr  e  d, pledg  e  d, or
otherw  i  se d  i  sposed of or e  n  cu  m  bered, and any   a  ttempt to do so will be null  
  and void; and  

  (b)     the uni  t  s und  e  r r  e  str  i  ction may be f  o  rfeited as provided in secti  o  n
6.  

4.             Restricted Periods    .  The r  e  str  i  cted      perio  d  s
will     comme  n  c  e      w  h  en
the units     a  re credit  e  d to Grant  e  e and,  
  unl  e  ss the   un  its have been forfeit  e  d      earli  e  r un  d  er
secti  o  n 6, wi  l  l expire as     fol  l  ows, whet  h  er or not Gr  a  ntee is
still an   e  mployee:    

  (a)     with      r  e  s  p  ect
to 50% of the units, on     Novem  b  er   24  ,      2012; and  

  (b)     with      r  e  s  p  ect
to the re  m  aining   u  n  its,
on Nove  m  b  e  r      24, 2016, except
that  

  (c)     the restricted periods     will
automatica  l  ly expire with respe  c  t to all units on the death of Grantee.  

5.             No O      b      ligation to Credit Uni      t      s    .  The C  o  r  p  orat  i  on will have   n  o obligation   t  o cr  e  dit any units and     will   h  ave no other     obligation to     Grant  e  e with     re  s  pe  c  t      to      the      s  ubje  c  t      matter   
  of      this Agreement     if Grant  e  e
fails     to accept the aw  a  rd on   o  r
  b  efore March 9, 20  1  0.      In
addition, whether   o  r   n  ot Grant  e  e      h  a  s
acc  e  pted t  h  e aw  a  rd, the Corp  o  ration   
  will have no obligation to     cr  e  dit any un  i  ts and will   hav  e no
other     o  bligation to   G  rantee      with r  e  sp  e  c  t
to the subj  e  c  t matter of this Agree  m  ent
if, before the   u  nits are     credi  t  ed:   

  (a)     G  rant  e  e termi  n  ates
(other than by   d  eath) bef  o  re      stan  d  ard      retirement
time within the me  a  ning of the
Program, except to the extent   t  he
admi  n  istrative aut  h  ority of   t  he Progr  a  m determines     Gr  a  nt  e  e may receive units     und  e  r
this A  g  ree  m  ent; or  

  (b)     G  rant  e  e is determin  e  d to have eng  a  ged in
detr  i  m  ental activity within the m  e  aning
of the     Program.   

6.             Forf      e      it      u      re              of              Units              After              Cr      e      diting    .  Until the appl  i  c  ab  l  e r  e  str  i  cted per  i  od
sp  e  c  ified
in sec  ti  on 4 h  a  s exp  i  red,
the units     und  e  r r  e  str  i  ction will be forfeited or     s  u  bject
to forfei  t  ure in the fol  l  owi  n  g
circ  um  sta  n  c  e  s:   

Termination    

  If Grantee terminates     (oth  e  r
than by dea  t  h) bef  o  re st  a  ndard
retire  m  ent time within the meani  n  g of the Program, all units for     which the appl  i  c  a  ble r  e  str  i  cted      peri  o  ds   h  ave
not expired     will be automa  t  ically forfeited as of     the date of term  i  nati  o  n, except to the
extent   t  he administrative au  t  hority determ  i  nes Grant  e  e may
retain uni  t  s issu  e  d un  d  er
t  h  is Agr  e  emen  t  .   

Detrimental activity    

  If Grantee is     determ  i  ned
to     have eng  a  g  e  d in detrim  e  ntal      activity
within the mean  i  ng of the Pr  o  gram, either bef  o  re      or after term  i  nation, all un  i  ts for wh  i  c  h   t  he
appl  i  c  ab  l  e      restr  i  cted
  p  eriods   h  ave not     expired will
be automat  ic  ally forfeited as of     the date  
  of such   d  etermination.   

Attempted             transfer     

  The units   a  re      sub  j  ect to for  f  eiture in the   d  iscretion      of t  h  e
admin  i  s  trat  iv  e authority if
Grant  e  e attempts to sell, assi  g  n, transf  e  r, pled  g  e, or otherw  i  se dis  p  ose      of or e  n  cu  m  ber      them
dur  i  ng the appl  i  c  ab  l  e      restr  i  cted peri  o  ds.   

1  

7.             Taxes    .  Notwit  h  s  ta  n  d  i  ng
the r  e  str  i  ctions   o  n t  r  a  n  sfer
that otherwise a  p  ply, the C  o  r  p  oration
  i  n its sole d  i  scretion may withho  l  d
units, or c  a  sh oth  e  rw  i  s  e pay  a  ble      in settlement     of      units, either at
the time of crediti  n  g, at the time
of settlement,     or at any other time
in or  d  er to sat  i  sfy any requ  i  red      withholding,      s  o  cial
security, and simi  l  ar taxes or     contributio  n  s (coll  e  ctively,
 requ  i  red taxes     ).  If the Corp  o  ra  t  ion
do  e  s not     withho  l  d units or c  a  sh to satisfy r  e  quired taxes, in the alter  n  ative
the Cor  p  oration may re  q  uire Gran  t  ee to dep  o  sit with
the Corp  o  ration      cash in   a  n
a  m  ount determi  n  ed by the Corpo  r  ati  o  n to be     nec  es  sary
to     satisfy re  q  uired taxes. Notwit  h  s  ta  n  d  i  ng any other     provis  i  on of this
Agree  m  e  nt, the Corp  or  ation
will be   u  nder   n  o obli  g  ation
to cr  e  dit units   o  r      to
pay cash   t  o Gran  t  ee in settlement     of      any units if Grantee
fai  l  s timely to dep  o  sit s  u  ch
amount with   t  he C  o  rp  o  rati  o  n.       The
Cor  p  oration in i  t  s      sole
d  i  screti  o  n may also w  i  thhold
any r  e  quir  e  d taxes from divide  n  d      equivalen  t  s payable   o  n the
units.  

8.             Form of Units; No             Sharehol      d      er
Status    .  The
units     will be re  p  r  e  s  e  nted
by bo  o  k-  e  ntry cr  e  dits in     rec  o  r  d  s mai  n  tained
by or   o  n behalf of the Corporation.     Units      will
be     unfunded,      unsecured pro  m  ises by
the Corpora  t  ion to pay cash in the
future upon the terms and     sub  je  c  t
to the con  d  itions of this Agree  m  ent.      Grant  e  e will   n  ot
be a sh  a  r  e  hold  e  r of the
Corporation     with      re  s  pe  c  t      to      unit  s  .   

9.             Set      t      le      m      ent              of              Uni      t      s    . If and when   t  he
appl  i  c  ab  l  e      restr  i  cted
  p  eriod expir  e  s w  i  th res  p  ect to  
  any units, the     Cor  p  oration   
  will pay to or for the   a  c  count of Gr  a  ntee pr  o  mptly after
s  u  ch exp  i  ration an   a  m  o  unt in c  a  sh
  e  qual to the fair market value on
the     expiration   d  ate of one s  h  are per unit, net     of
required taxes in   a  c  corda  n  ce
with     s  e  ction 7. Fair m  a  rket
value of s  h  ar  e  s will be   d  etermined
and p  a  yments will   b  e made in   ac  corda  n  ce      with the pr  o  c  e  d  ures of  
  the adminis  t  r  ative      authori  t  y in effect at the time.  

10.          Dividend Equivalents    .  The C  o  r  p  orat  i  on will pay to Grant  e  e c  a  sh      with r  e  sp  e  c  t
to each     cr  e  dited unit c  o  rrespond  i  ng in   a  mount,
curr  e  ncy, and     timing to cash dividen  d  s
that wou  l  d      be      payable      with resp  e  c  t to a share of     com  m  on st  o  ck outsta  n  ding   o  n each r  e  c  o  rd      date that occurs   d  ur  i  ng t  h  e      applicable
r  e  str  i  cted p  e  ri  o  d.      Alternatively,
the admin  i  s  trati  v  e authority   m  ay determi  n  e to reinvest     s  u  ch divid  e  nd
  e  quivalen  t  s in additio  n  al un  i  ts wh  i  c  h will be held     sub  je  c  t to all the terms   a  nd con  d  itions oth  e  rw  i  s  e a  p  plicable      to units un  d  er this Agree  m  ent.   

11.          Change in Capit      a      lization    .  If during the   a  pplicable res  t  ricted   p  er  i  o  d  s
a stock split, stock divid  en  d, or
other     re  l  evant ch  a  nge      in capital  i  zation      of the
Corporation occurs,     the admin  i  s  trative
authori  t  y   w  ill make such adjustments in the numb  e  r of un  i  ts credited
to     Grant  e  e, or in     the numb  e  r      and
type of sec  u  rities   u  s  e  d in determ  i  n  i  ng the c  a  sh settlement v  a  lue of units or dividend e  qu  ivalent
amo  u  n  t  s, as the a  d  ministrative
authority may determ  i  ne to be ap  p  ro  p  ria  t  e.   

12.          Limits              on the Corporation's Obligations    .  Notwit  h  s  ta  n  d  i  ng
anything   e  lse contai  n  ed      in
this     Agre  e  ment, und  e  r no circ  u  mst  a  nc  e  s will the     Corp  o  ration be re  q  uired to cr  e  dit any units or m  a  ke      any paymen  t  s      in settlem  e  nt of units if doing so w  o  uld      violate
any law or l  i  sting requirem  e  nt that the admin  i  s  trative auth  o  rity determin  e  s to be appl  ic  able.   

13.          Receipt or Access to Program    .  Grant  e  e ack  n  owl  e  dg  e  s
r  e  ceipt of or acc  e  ss to     the      full      text      of the  
  Program.   

14.          Addresses for Communications    .  To facilitate commun  i  cations regardi  n  g this Agreement, Grantee agrees to     notify the Corporation pro  m  ptly
of cha  n  g  e  s in     current mail  i  ng and e  m  ail
address  e  s.  Com  m  un  i  cat  i  ons to the C  o  rp  o  ration in     conn  e  ction
with this Agr  e  ement s  h  ould      be
dir  e  cted to the Incenti  v  e      Processi  n  g Office, or to such ot  h  er a  dd  ress
  a  s the Corp  o  ration      may desi  g  na  t  e
by further   n  otice to Gran  t  ee.   

15.          Transfer of Personal Data    .  The adm  i  nistration of the Pro  g  ram
a  n  d this Ag  r  eem  e  nt involves the
trans  f  er of perso  n  al data  
  about Grant  e  e between a  n  d am  o  ng
the C  o  rp  o  ration, sel  e  ct  e  d affiliates of the Corp  o  rat  i  on,
and thir  d-  party serv  i  c  e
  p  rov  i  ders s  u  ch   a  s      Mor  g  an Stan  l  ey
Smith Barney and Co  m  putersh  a  re (  t  he
C  o  rp  o  rati  o  n's tr  a  nsf  e  r
agent).     Th  i  s data inc  l  ud  e  s Grant  e  e's
  na  me, age, con  t  a  c  t
infor  m  ati  o  n, work location, employ  m  ent
status, tax status, a  n  d related inf  o  rmation.   
  By   ac  cepting t  h  i  s
aw  a  rd, Gran  t  ee auth  o  rizes the
transf  e  r of this data.  

16.          No Emplo      y      ment Contract or E      n      titlement
to Other or Future       A      w      ards    .  This A  g  ree  m  ent, the Cor  p  oratio  n  's i  n  c  e  ntive
pro  g  ra  m  s  , and   G  rant  e  e's      sel  e  ction
for incentive   a  wards   d  o not imply or form a p  a  rt of any contract     or ass  u  r  a  nce of employm  e  nt, and they do not in any way limit or res  t  rict the a  b  ility of Grantee's e  m  ployer      to termina  t  e      Grant  e  e  '  s
e  m  ployment.      Grantee   a  c  kn  o  wle  d  g  e  s
that the Corp  o  rat  i  on maintai  n  s      and adm  i  nis  t  ers
i  t  s inc  e  ntive pro  g  ra  m  s entirely in its discreti  o  n a  n  d
that Grant  e  e is n  o  t entitled to any other or f  u  ture incen  t  ive      awards of a  n  y kind in addi  t  ion to those   t  hat have
alre  a  dy been     grant  e  d.   

2  

17.          Governing L      a      w              and
Consent to Jurisdiction    . 
This A  g  ree  m  ent and the   P  ro  g  ram   a  re
  g  overn  e  d by the     laws of the
State of New     York      without regard to any confl  i  ct of law rul  e  s.      Any dispute   a  r  i  s  ing   o  ut
of     or relating to th  i  s Agr  e  ement      or the Pro  g  r  a  m may be resolved
in   a  ny state or f  e  deral      co  u  rt l  o  cated      within      Dall  a  s Coun  t  y,
Texas, U.S.A.     Grantee accep  t  s that venue a  n  d s  u  bmits to the   p  ersonal j  u  r  i  s  d  iction of any such     co  u  rt.      Similarly, the Corp  o  rati  o  n
accep  t  s s  u  ch venue a  n  d s  u  bmits to s  u  ch      jurisd  i  c  tion.   

18.          Entire Agreeme      n      t    .  This A  g  ree  m  ent co  n  s  titut  e  s
the entire   u  ndersta  n  d  i  ng      betw  e  en
Gr  a  ntee and the     Corp  o  ration      with r  e  sp  e  c  t
to the subject matter of this Agreement.  

3  

</EX-10.(III) (A4)>

<EX-10.(III) (B1)>
 4
 xom10iiib1.htm
 SHORT TERM INCENTIVE PROGRAM, AS AMENDED

EXHIBIT 10(iii)(b.1)   

EXXON MOBIL
CORPORATION   

SHORT TERM
INCENTIVE PROGRAM   

  (as amended November 24, 2009)  

I. 
Purposes   

The
Short Term Incentive Program is intended to help reward, retain, and motivate
selected employees of the Corporation and its affiliates by recognizing efforts
and accomplishments which contribute materially to the success of the
Corporation's business interests.  

II. 
Definitions   

In
this Program, except where the context otherwise indicates, the following
definitions apply:  

(1)        Administrative
authority  means the Board, a committee designated by the Board, the
Chairman of the Board, or the Chairman's delegates authorized to administer
outstanding awards under this Program, establish requirements and procedures
for the operation of the Program, and to exercise other powers assigned to the
administrative authority under this Program.  

(2)        Affiliate 
means a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or other entity in
which the Corporation, directly or indirectly, owns an equity interest and
which the administrative authority determines to be an affiliate for purposes
of this Program (including for purposes of determining whether a change of
employment constitutes a termination).  

(3)        Award 
means a bonus, bonus unit, or other award under this Program.  

(4)        Board 
means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.  

(5)        Bonus 
means a cash award specific in amount.  

(6)        Bonus
unit  means a potential cash award whose amount is based upon specified
measurement criteria.  The term bonus unit includes, but is not limited to,
earnings bonus units.  

(7)        Compensation
Committee  means the committee of the Board so designated.  

(8)        Corporation 
means Exxon Mobil Corporation, a New Jersey corporation, or its successors.  

(9)        Designated
beneficiary  means a person designated by the grantee of an award pursuant
to Section XIII to be entitled, on the death of the grantee, to any remaining
rights arising out of such award.  

(10)      Detrimental
activity  of a grantee means activity at any time, during or after
employment with the Corporation or an affiliate, that is determined in
individual cases by the administrative authority to be (a) a material violation
of applicable standards, policies, or procedures of the Corporation or an
affiliate; or (b) a material breach of legal or other duties owed by the
grantee to the Corporation or an affiliate; or (c) a material breach of any
contract between the grantee and the Corporation or an affiliate; or (d)
acceptance by grantee of duties to a third party under circumstances that
create a material conflict of interest, or the appearance of a material
conflict of interest, with respect to the grantee's retention of outstanding
awards under this Program.  Detrimental activity includes, without limitation,
activity that would be a basis for termination of employment for cause under
applicable law in the United States, or a comparable standard under applicable
law of another jurisdiction.  With respect to material conflict of interest or the
appearance of material conflict of interest, such conflict or appearance might
occur when, for example and without limitation, a grantee holding an
outstanding award becomes employed or otherwise engaged by an entity that
regulates, deals with, or competes with the Corporation or an affiliate.  

1    

(11)        Earnings
bonus unit  or  EBU  means an award of the potential right to
receive from the Corporation at the settlement date specified in the award
instrument, or at any later payment dates so specified, an amount of cash, up
to the specified maximum settlement value, equal to the Corporation's
cumulative earnings per common share, as reflected in its quarterly earnings
statements as initially filed in its quarterly or annual reports with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, commencing with earnings for the first full
quarter after the date of grant through the last full quarter preceding the
settlement date.  

(12)      Employee 
means an employee of the Corporation or an affiliate, including a part-time employee
or an employee on military, family, or other approved temporary leave.  

(13)      Exchange
Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as in effect from time to
time.  

(14)      Grantee 
means a recipient of an award under this Program.  

(15)      Granting
authority  means the Board or any appropriate committee authorized to
grant and amend awards under this Program and to exercise other powers assigned
to the granting authority.  

(16)      Net
Income Per Common Share (Basic)  means net income per common share or
earnings per share, as applicable.  

(17)      Program 
means this Short Term Incentive Program, as amended from time to time.  

(18)      Reporting
person  means a person subject to the reporting requirements of Section
16(a) of the Exchange Act.  

(19)      Resign 
means to terminate at the initiative of the employee before standard retirement
time.  Resignation includes, without limitation, early retirement at the
initiative of the employee.  The time or date of a resignation for purposes of
this Program is not necessarily the employee's last day on the payroll.  See
Section XI(2).  

(20)      Section
16  means Section 16 of the Exchange Act, together with the rules and
interpretations thereunder, as in effect from time to time.  

(21)      Standard
retirement time  means (a) for each US-dollar payroll employee, the first
day of the month immediately following the month in which the employee attains
age 65; and (b) for each other employee, the comparable age in that employee's
payroll country as determined by the administrative authority with reference to
local law, custom, and affiliate policies regarding retirement.  

(22)      Terminate 
means cease to be an employee for any reason, whether at the initiative of the
employee, the employer, or otherwise.  That reason could include, without
limitation, resignation or retirement by the employee; discharge of the
employee by the employer, with or without cause; death; transfer of employment
to an entity that is a not an affiliate; or a sale, divestiture, or other transaction
as a result of which an employer ceases to be an affiliate.  A change of
employment from the Corporation or one affiliate to another affiliate, or to
the Corporation, is not a termination.  The time or date of termination is not
necessarily the employee's last day on the payroll.  See Section XI(2).  

(23)      Year 
means calendar year.  

III.  Administration   

The
Board is the ultimate administrative authority for this Program, with the power
to interpret and administer its provisions.  The Board may delegate its
authority to a committee which, except in the case of the Compensation
Committee, need not be a committee of the Board.  Subject to the authority of
the Board or an authorized committee, the Chairman and his delegates will serve
as the administrative authority for purposes of establishing requirements and
procedures for the operation of this Program; making final determinations and
interpretations with respect to outstanding awards; and exercising other powers
assigned to the administrative authority under this Program.  

2    

IV.  No Equity-Security Awards   

It
is intended that this Program not be subject to the provisions of Section 16
and that awards granted hereunder not be considered equity securities of the
Corporation within the meaning of Section 16.  Accordingly, no award under this
Program will be payable in any equity security of the Corporation.  In the
event an award to a reporting person under this Program should be deemed to be
an equity security of the Corporation within the meaning of Section 16, such
award may, to the extent permitted by law and deemed advisable by the granting
authority, be amended so as not to constitute such an equity security, or may
be annulled.  Each award to a reporting person under this Program will be
deemed issued subject to the foregoing qualification.  

V. 
Annual Ceiling   

In
respect to each year under this Program, the Compensation Committee will,
pursuant to authority delegated by the Board, establish a ceiling on the
aggregate dollar amount that can be awarded under this Program.  With respect
to bonuses and bonus units granted in a particular year under this Program, the
sum of (1) the aggregate amount of bonuses, and (2) the aggregate maximum
settlement value of bonus units will not exceed such ceiling.  The Compensation
Committee may revise the ceiling from time to time as it deems appropriate.  

VI. 
Right to Grant Awards; Reserved Powers; Eligibility   

(1)       The
Board is the ultimate granting authority for this Program, with the power to
select eligible persons for participation and to make all decisions concerning
the grant or amendment of awards.  The Board may delegate this authority in
whole or in part (a) in the case of reporting persons, to the Compensation
Committee; and (b) in the case of employees who are not reporting persons, to a
committee of two or more persons who may, but need not, be directors of the Corporation.  

(2)       The
granting authority has sole discretion to select persons for awards under this
Program, except that grants may be made only to persons who at the time of
grant are, or within the immediately preceding 12 months have been, employees
of the Corporation or of an affiliate in which the Corporation directly or
indirectly holds a 50 percent or greater equity interest.  No person is
entitled to an award as a matter of right, and the grant of an award under this
Program does not entitle a grantee to any future or additional awards.  

(3)       No
award may be granted to a member of the Compensation Committee.  

VII.  Term   

This
Program will continue until terminated by the Board.  

VIII. 
Form of Bonus   

A
bonus may be granted either wholly in cash, wholly in bonus units, or partly in
each.  

IX. 
Settlement of Bonuses   

Each
grant will specify the time and method of settlement as determined by the
granting authority.  Each grant, any portion of which is in bonus units, will
specify as the regular time of settlement for that portion a settlement date,
which may be accelerated to an earlier time specified in the award instrument.  

X.  Deferred and Installment
Settlement; Interest Equivalents   

(1)       The granting authority
may permit or require settlement of any award under this Program to be deferred
and to be made in one or more installments upon such terms and conditions as
the granting authority may determine at the time the award is granted or by
amendment of the award, provided that settlement may not be made later than the
tenth anniversary of the grantee's date of termination.  

3    

(2)       An
award that is to be settled in whole or in part in cash on a deferred basis may
provide for interest equivalents to be credited with respect to the deferred
cash payment or payments upon such terms and conditions as the granting
authority determines.  Interest equivalents may be paid currently or may be
added to the balance of the award amount and compounded, as specified in the
award instrument.  Compounded interest equivalents will be paid in cash upon
settlement or payment of the underlying award and will expire or be forfeited
or cancelled upon the same conditions as the underlying award.  The granting
authority may delegate to the administrative authority the right to determine
the rate or rates at which interest equivalents will accrue.  

(3)       Credits
of interest equivalents on outstanding awards are not new grants with reference
to the eligibility provisions of Section VI(2).   

(4)       Credits
of interest equivalents will not be included in any computation to establish
compliance with a ceiling established by the Compensation Committee pursuant to
Section V.  

XI.  Termination; Detrimental
Activity   

(1)       If a
grantee terminates before standard retirement time, other than by reason of
death, all outstanding awards of the grantee under this Program (including
bonuses, bonus units, EBUs, and other awards not yet paid or settled) will
automatically expire and be forfeited as of the date of termination except to
the extent the administrative authority (which, in the case of reporting
persons, must be the Compensation Committee) determines otherwise.  

(2)       For
purposes of this Program, the administrative authority may determine that the
time or date an employee resigns or otherwise terminates is the time or date
the employee gives notice of resignation, accepts employment with another
employer, otherwise indicates an intent to resign, or is discharged.  The time
or date of termination for this purpose is not necessarily the employee's last
day on the payroll.  

(3)       If the
administrative authority (which, in the case of reporting persons, must be the
Compensation Committee) determines that a grantee has engaged in detrimental
activity, whether or not the grantee is still an employee, then the
administrative authority may, effective as of the time of such determination,
cancel and cause to expire all or part of the grantee's outstanding awards
under this Program (including bonuses, bonus units, EBUs, and other awards not
yet paid or settled).  

(4)       If the
administrative authority is advised or has reason to believe that a grantee (a)
may have engaged in detrimental activity; or (b) may have accepted employment
with another employer or otherwise indicated an intent to resign, the authority
may suspend the exercise, delivery, or settlement of all or any specified
portion of such grantee's outstanding awards pending an investigation of the
matter.  

XII.  Material Negative
Restatement   

(1)       If the
Corporation's reported financial or operating results become subject to a
material negative restatement, the Compensation Committee may require any
current or former reporting person, as defined in Section II(18), to pay to the
Corporation an amount corresponding to each award to that person under this
Program, or portion of such award, that the Compensation Committee determines
would not have been granted or paid if the Corporation's results as originally
published had been equal to the Corporation's results as subsequently restated,
provided       that (a) any requirement or claim under this Section XII will
apply only with respect to grantees who were reporting persons at the time the
applicable amounts were awarded or paid; and (b) any requirement or claim under
this Section XII must be made, if at all, within five years after the date the
amount claimed was originally paid by the Corporation.    

(2)       The
obligations of reporting persons to make payments under this Section XII are
independent of any involvement by those reporting persons in events that led to
the restatement.  The provisions of this Section XII are in addition to, not in
lieu of, any remedies that the Corporation may have against any persons whose
misconduct caused or contributed to a need to restate the Corporation's
reported results.  

4    

XIII.  Death; Beneficiary
Designation   

Any
rights and obligations of a grantee under this Program in effect at that
grantee's death will apply to that grantee's designated beneficiary or, if
there is no designated beneficiary, to that grantee's estate representative or
lawful heirs, as demonstrated to the satisfaction of the administrative
authority.  Beneficiary designations must be made in writing and in accordance
with such requirements and procedures as the administrative authority may establish. 
Unless specified otherwise in the award instrument, if a grantee dies, the
administrative authority may accelerate or otherwise alter the settlement of
deferred awards to that grantee.  

XIV. 
Amendments to this Program and Outstanding Awards   

(1)       The Board may from time
to time amend this Program.  An amendment of this Program will, unless the
amendment provides otherwise, be immediately and automatically effective for
all outstanding awards.  

(2)       Without
amending this Program, the granting authority may amend any one or more
outstanding awards under this Program to incorporate in those awards any terms
that could be incorporated in a new award under this Program.  An award as
amended must satisfy any conditions or limitations applicable to the particular
type of award under the terms of this Program.  

XV.  Withholding Taxes   

The
Corporation has the right, in its sole discretion, to deduct or withhold at any
time cash otherwise payable or deliverable in order to satisfy any required
withholding, social security, and similar taxes and contributions with respect
to awards under this Program.   

XVI. 
Non-US Awards   

Subject
to the limitations contained in this Program, the granting authority may
establish different terms and conditions for awards to persons who are
residents or nationals of countries other than the United States in order to
accommodate the local laws, tax policies, or customs of such countries.  The
granting authority may adopt one or more supplements or sub-plans under this
Program to implement those different terms and conditions.  

XVII. 
General Provisions   

(1)       An
award under this Program is not transferable except by will or the laws of
descent and distribution, and is not subject to attachment, execution, or levy
of any kind.  The designation by a grantee of a designated beneficiary is not a
transfer for this purpose.  

(2)       A
particular form of award may be granted to a grantee either alone or in
addition to other awards hereunder.  The provisions of particular forms of
award need not be the same for each grantee.  

(3)       An
award may be granted for no consideration, for the minimum consideration
required by applicable law, or for such other consideration as the granting
authority may determine.  

(4)       An
award may be evidenced in such manner as the administrative authority
determines, including by physical instrument, by electronic communication, or
by book entry.  In the event of any dispute or discrepancy regarding the terms
of an award, the records of the administrative authority will be determinative.  

(5)       The
grant of an award under this Program does not constitute or imply a contract of
employment and does not in any way limit or restrict the ability of the
employer to terminate the grantee's employment, with or without cause, even if
such termination results in the expiration, cancellation, or forfeiture of outstanding
awards.  

(6)       A
grantee will have only a contractual right to the amounts, if any, payable in
settlement of an award under this Program, unsecured by any assets of the
Corporation or any other entity.  

(7)       This
Program will be governed by the laws of the State of New York and the United
States of America, without regard to any conflict of law rules.  

5    

</EX-10.(III) (B1)>

<EX-10.(III) (B2)>
 5
 xom10iiib2.htm
 EARNINGS BONUS UNIT INSTRUMENT

EXHIBIT 10(iii)(b.2)   

EXXON
MOBIL CORPORATION   

  EARNINGS BONUS UNIT AWARD  

Maximum  

Maximum  

Settlement  

Settlement  

EBU  

Number  

Value Per  

Value of  

Number   

Name of Grantee   

of EBUs   

EBU   

Award   

$6.25  

This    EARNINGS BONUS UNIT AWARD   
is granted in Dallas County, Texas by Exxon Mobil Corporation
(the Corporation ) effective November 26, 2013 (the  date of
grant ), pursuant to the Short Term Incentive Program adopted by the Board
of Directors of the Corporation on October 27, 1993, as amended (the
 Program ).  This award is subject to the provisions of this
instrument and the Program and to such regulations and requirements as may be
stipulated from time to time by the administrative authority defined in the
Program and is granted on the condition that Grantee accepts such provisions,
regulations and requirements.  This instrument incorporates by reference the
provisions of the Program, as it may be amended from time to time, including
without limitation the definitions of terms used in this instrument and defined
in the Program.  

1.        Award   .  The
Corporation has granted to Grantee the number of earnings bonus units
( EBUs ) set forth above, with each EBU having the maximum settlement
value set forth above.  Subject to the other terms of this award, Grantee has
the right, for each of these EBUs, to receive from the Corporation, promptly
after the settlement date defined below, an amount of cash equal to the
Corporation's cumulative earnings per common share (assuming dilution) as
reflected in its quarterly earnings statements as initially filed in its
quarterly or annual reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 
commencing with earnings for the first full quarter following the date of grant
to and including the last full quarter preceding the settlement date; provided,
however, that the amount of such settlement will not exceed the maximum
settlement value specified above.  

2.        Settlement Date   . 
The settlement date of these EBUs will be the earlier of  (i) the date of
publication of the Corporation's quarterly earnings statement for the twelfth
(12th) full quarter following the date of grant, or (ii) the date of
publication of the Corporation's quarterly earnings statement which brings the
cumulative earnings per common share (assuming dilution) as initially filed in
its quarterly or annual reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission commencing with the first full quarter following the date of grant
to an amount at least equal to the maximum settlement value per EBU specified
above.    

3.        Annulment   .  This
award is provisional until the Corporation actually pays cash in settlement of
the award.  

(a) If, before the
Corporation pays such cash, Grantee terminates (other than by death) before
standard retirement time within the meaning of the Program, this award will
automatically expire as of the date of termination, except to the extent the
administrative authority determines Grantee may retain this award.  

          (b) If, before the
Corporation pays such cash, Grantee is determined to have engaged in
detrimental activity within the meaning of the Program, this award will
automatically expire as of the date of such determination.  

4.        Adjustments   .  The
number of EBUs covered by this award and the meaning of the term  common
share  will be adjusted by the administrative authority as it deems
appropriate to give effect to any stock split, stock dividend or other relevant
change in capitalization of the Corporation after the date of grant and prior
to the settlement date.  

5.        Governing Law and
Consent to Jurisdiction   .  This award and the Program are governed by the
laws of the State of New York without regard to any conflict of law rules.  Any
dispute arising out of or relating to this award or the Program may be resolved
in any state or federal court located within Dallas County, Texas, U.S.A.  This
award is issued on the condition that Grantee accepts such venue and submits to
the personal jurisdiction of any such court.  Similarly, the Corporation
accepts such venue and submits to such jurisdiction.  

EXXON
  MOBIL CORPORATION   

</EX-10.(III) (B2)>

<EX-10.(III) (C1)>
 6
 xom10iiic1.htm
 EXXONMOBIL SUPPLEMENTAL SAVINGS PLAN

EXHIBIT 10(iii)(c.1)   

EXXONMOBIL SUPPLEMENTAL SAVINGS PLAN   

   (including Key Employee Supplemental
Savings Plan)   

1.    Purpose    

The purpose of this Plan is to provide a
payment of approximately equivalent value from the general assets of Exxon
Mobil Corporation ( Corporation ) to a person participating in the ExxonMobil
Savings Plan ( Savings Plan ) who, because of the application of United States
Internal Revenue Code ( Code ) sections 415 and 401(a)(17) is precluded from
receiving employer contributions to the person's Savings Plan account to which
the person would otherwise be entitled.  

2.    Benefits    

2.1             Benefit Formula   

  (A)             In
General   

  As to any specific Savings Plan participant the total amount of
payment under this Plan is an amount that is in general determined by
notionally crediting on a monthly basis the amount of employer contributions
that cannot be made to the Savings Plan for that person as a result of
application to that person of Code sections 415 and 401(a)(17); except that,
for those persons who, as of December 31, 1993, are classified at level 36 and
are age 50 and above, only notional employer contributions made after such date
are taken into account.  This amount is enhanced in each instance by 120
percent of the long-term Applicable Federal Rate, compounded monthly, as of the
last month of each calendar quarter as published by the Internal Revenue
Service, and is then reduced, but not below zero, by the amount, if any, of the
actuarial lump-sum value of the amount payable to the participant under the
ExxonMobil Key Employee Additional Payments Plan that is not applied as an
offset against the participant's benefit under the ExxonMobil Additional
Payments Plan or the ExxonMobil Supplemental Pension Plan.  For this
purpose, the actuarial lump-sum value shall be determined using the mortality
and interest rate assumptions set out in the ExxonMobil Pension Accounts Instrument.  

  (B)             Notional Interest Rate for Key Employees after
Termination or Retirement   

  As to a participant who, immediately prior to his or her
termination or retirement, has a Classification Level of 36 or above ( Key
Employee ),  120 percent of the long-term Applicable Federal Rate,
compounded monthly, as of the last month of each calendar quarter as published
by the Internal Revenue Service  in paragraph (A) above shall be replaced
with  Citibank Prime Lending Rate as of the last business day of each
calendar quarter  for the period between date of termination or retirement
and date of payment.   

2.2             Calculation Methodology   

  The exact methodology used in determining such monthly credits and
interest thereon will be established from time to time by the Plan Administrator.
 General guidelines to be followed are:   

  (A)             Required
Participant Contributions   

  To the extent determined by those administering this Plan, a
person is required to make regular employee contributions to the person's
Savings Plan account up to the maximum permitted by the Code to receive credits
under this Plan.  

  (B)             Discretionary
Employee Contributions   

  Prior to July 1, 2002, a person may not enhance the amounts
credited under this Plan by making discretionary employee contributions to the
person's Savings Plan account.  

3.    Payment of Benefits   

Payment of the benefit determined under
article 2 above shall be made in a lump sum as soon as practicable following
the latest of the following times:  

  (A)          the participant s termination
of employment or retirement from ExxonMobil;  

  (B)          In the case of a Key
Employee, the six-month anniversary of the participant's termination of
employment or retirement;   

  (C)          In the case of a participant
whose Savings Plan account is transferred to a savings plan sponsored by
Infineum USA Inc. or any of its affiliates ( Infineum ), the
participant s termination of employment from Infineum; or  

1    

(D)          In the case of a participant
whose Savings Plan account is transferred to a savings plan sponsored by
Tenneco, Inc. or any of its affiliates ( Tenneco ), the participant s
termination of employment from Tenneco.  

4.    Payment Upon Death   

4.1             In General   

  If a person dies before his benefit under this Plan is distributed
to him, then such benefit shall be distributed as soon as practicable after
death to the person s beneficiary determined under section 4.2 below.  

4.2             Designation of Beneficiaries   

  (A)             In
General   

  A person entitled to receive a payment under this Plan may name
one or more designated beneficiaries to receive such payment in the event of
the person's death.  Beneficiary designations shall be made in accordance
with such procedures as the Plan Administrator may establish.  Spousal
consent to any designation is not required.  

  (B)             Default
Beneficiaries   

  (1)              In
General   

  If no specific designation is in effect, the deceased s
beneficiary is the person or persons in the first of the following classes of
successive beneficiaries living at the time of death of the deceased:  

  (a)           spouse;  

  (b)           children who survive the
participant or who die before the participant leaving children of their own who
survive the participant;  

  (c)           parents;  

  (d)           brothers and sisters who
survive the participant or who die before the participant leaving children of
their own who survive the participant.  

  If there are no members of any class of such beneficiaries,
payment is made to the deceased s executors or administrators.  

  (2)              Allocation
among Default Beneficiaries   

  If the same class of beneficiaries under paragraph (1) above
contains two or more persons, they share equally, with further subdivision of
such equal shares as next provided.  In class (b), where a child dies
before the participant leaving children who survive the participant, such
child's share is subdivided equally among those children.  In class (d),
where a brother or sister dies before the participant leaving children who
survive the participant, such brother or sister's share is subdivided equally
among those children.  

  (3)              Definitions    

  For purposes of this Section 4.2,  child  means a
person's son or daughter by legitimate blood relationship or legal adoption;
 parent  means a person's father or mother by legitimate blood
relationship or legal adoption;  brother  or  sister  means
another child of either or both of one's parents.  

5.    Miscellaneous    

5.1             Administration of Plan   

  The Plan Administrator shall be the Manager, Compensation, Benefit
Plans and Policies, Human Resources Department, Exxon Mobil Corporation.
 The Plan Administrator shall have the right and authority to conclusively
interpret this Plan for all purposes, including the determination of any
person s eligibility for benefits hereunder and the resolution of any and all
appeals relating to claims by participants or beneficiaries, with any such
interpretation being conclusive for all participants and beneficiaries.  

5.2             Nature of Payments   

  Payments provided under this Plan are considered general
obligations of the Corporation.  

5.3             Assignment or Alienation   

  Except as provided in section 5.5 below, payments provided under
this Plan may not be assigned or otherwise alienated or pledged.  

2    

5.4             Amendment or Termination   

  The Corporation reserves the right to amend or terminate this
plan, in whole or in part, including the right at any time to reduce or
eliminate any accrued benefits hereunder and to alter or amend the benefit
formula set out herein.  

5.5             Forfeiture of Benefits   

  No person shall be entitled to receive payments under this Plan
and any payments received under this Plan shall be forfeited and returned if it
is determined by the Corporation in its sole discretion, acting through its
chief executive or such person or committee as the chief executive may
designate, that a person otherwise entitled to a payment under this Plan or who
has commenced receiving payments under this Plan:  

  (A)          engaged in gross misconduct
harmful to the Corporation,   

  (B)          committed a criminal
violation harmful to the Corporation,  

  (C)          had concealed actions
described in paragraph (A) or (B) above which would have brought about
termination from employment thereby making the person ineligible for benefits
under this Plan,   

  (D)          separated from service prior
to attaining age 65 without having received from the Corporation or its
delegatee prior written approval for such termination, given in the sole
discretion of the Corporation or its delegatee   

  and in the context of recognition that benefits under this Plan
would not be forfeited upon such termination, or  

  (E)           had been terminated for
cause.  

EXXONMOBIL KEY
EMPLOYEE SUPPLEMENTAL SAVINGS PLAN  

K1.    Purpose    

This Plan provides a payment from the
general assets of Exxon Mobil Corporation ( Corporation ) to a person who, as
of December 31, 1993,  

  (A)          was classified at level 36 or above,   

  (B)          was age 50 or above,  

  (C)          was a participant in the
Thrift Plan of Exxon Corporation ( Thrift Plan ), and  

  (D)          had been precluded from
receiving employer contributions to the person's account within the Thrift Plan
to which the person would otherwise be entitled, because of the application of
United States Internal Revenue Code ( Code ) sections 415 and 401(a)(17).  

  This plan expresses the Corporation's
commitment to make such a payment at the time payment is made to the
participant under the ExxonMobil Supplemental Savings Plan, and sets forth the
method for doing so.  

K2.    Benefits    

K2.1          Benefit Formula   

  (A)             In General   

  As to a participant, the total amount of payment under this Plan
shall be an amount that has been in general determined by notionally crediting
on a monthly basis the amount of employer contributions that could not have
been made to the Thrift Plan account of that person as a result of application
to that person of Code sections 415 and 401(a)(17) from the date the person
otherwise would have been an eligible participant in the Exxon Supplemental
Thrift Plan until December 30, 1993. This amount shall be enhanced in each
instance by 120 percent of the long-term Applicable Federal Rate, compounded
monthly, as of the last month of each calendar quarter as published by the
Internal Revenue Service.  A participant in this Plan shall have a non-forfeitable
right to this amount credited as of December 31, 1993 plus all enhancements.  

  (B)             Notional Interest Rate for Key Employees after
Termination or Retirement   

  As to a participant who, immediately prior to his or her
termination or retirement, has a Classification Level of 36 or above,  120
percent of the long-term Applicable Federal Rate, compounded monthly, as of the
last month of each calendar quarter as published by the Internal Revenue
Service  in paragraph (A) above shall be replaced with  Citibank
Prime Lending Rate as of the last business day of each calendar quarter 
for the period between date of termination or retirement and date of payment.  

K2.2          Calculation Methodology   

  The exact methodology for such notional credits and interest
thereon shall be determined by the Plan Administrator.    

3    

K3.    Payment
of Benefits   

K3.1          Form of Payment   

  Payments under this Plan are made in the form of a lump sum single
payment.  

K3.2          Timing of Payment   

  Payment shall be made under this Plan at the same time as payment
is made to the participant under the ExxonMobil Supplemental Savings Plan.  

K4.    Beneficiaries    

K4.1          Designation of Beneficiaries   

  A person entitled to receive a payment under this Plan may name
one or more designees to receive such payment in the event of the person's
death.  Beneficiary designations shall be made in accordance with such
procedures as the Plan Administrator may establish.  Spousal consent to
any designation is not required.    

K4.2          Default Beneficiaries   

  (A)             In General   

  If no specific designation is in effect, the deceased s
beneficiary is the person or persons in the first of the following classes of
successive beneficiaries living at the time of death of the deceased:  

  (1)           spouse;  

  (2)           children who survive the
participant or who die before the participant leaving children of their own who
survive the participant;  

  (3)           parents;  

  (4)           brothers and sisters who
survive the participant or who die before the participant leaving children of
their own who survive the participant.  

  If there are no members of any class of such beneficiaries,
payment is made to the deceased's executors or administrators.  

  (B)             Allocation among Default Beneficiaries   

  If the same class of beneficiaries under paragraph (A) above
contains two or more persons, they share equally, with further subdivision of
such equal shares as next provided.  In class (2), where a child dies
before the participant leaving children who survive the participant, such
child's share shall be subdivided equally among those children.  In class
(4), where a brother or sister dies before the participant leaving children who
survive the participant, such brother or sister's share shall be subdivided
equally among those children.  

  (C)             Definitions    

  For purposes of this Section K4.2,  child  means a person's
son or daughter by legitimate blood relationship or legal adoption;
 parent  means a person's father or mother by legitimate blood
relationship or legal adoption;  brother  or  sister  means
another child of either or both of one's parents.  

K5.    Miscellaneous    

K5.1          Administration of Plan   

  The Plan Administrator shall be the Manager, Compensation, Benefit
Plans and Policies, Human Resources Department, ExxonMobil Corporation.
 The Plan Administrator shall have the right and authority to conclusively
interpret this Plan for all purposes, including the determination of any
person s eligibility for benefits hereunder and the resolution of any and all
appeals relating to claims by participants or beneficiaries, with any such
interpretation being conclusive for all participants and beneficiaries.  

K5.2          Nature of Payments   

  Payments provided under this Plan shall be considered general
obligations of the Corporation.  

K5.3          Assignment or Alienation   

  Payments provided under this Plan may not be assigned or otherwise
alienated or pledged.  

K5.4          Amendment or Termination   

  The Corporation may at any time amend or terminate this Plan, in
whole or in part, so long as the amendment does not deprive any person of the
non-forfeitable right to benefits specifically granted in this Plan.  

4    

</EX-10.(III) (C1)>

<EX-10.(III) (C2)>
 7
 xom10iiic2.htm
 EXXONMOBIL SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN

EXHIBIT 10(iii)(c.2)   

EXXONMOBIL
SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN   

   (Including
Key Employee Supplemental Pension Plan)   

1.    Purpose    

The purpose of this Plan is to provide payments of equivalent
value from the general assets of Exxon Mobil Corporation ( Corporation ) to
those participants in the ExxonMobil Pension Plan ( Pension Plan ) who, because
of the application of United States Internal Revenue Code ( Code ) sections 415
and 401(a)(17), are precluded from receiving from Pension Plan funded assets all
the payments to which they would otherwise be entitled under the Pension Plan's
formula.    

2.    Benefits    

2.1             Benefit Formula   

  (A)             In
General   

  Except as provided in
paragraph (B) below with respect to former Mobil employees, as defined in the
ExxonMobil Common Provisions, ( Former Mobil Employees ), as to any Pension
Plan participant eligible for payment under this Plan, the value of the
payments under this Plan is an amount that when added to the normal form amount
that can be paid to the participant from the Pension Plan's qualified funded
assets, produces a sum equal to the total normal form amount to which the
participant would be entitled computed under the Pension Plan formula
applicable to that participant disregarding any reductions, restrictions, or
limitations brought about by the application of Code sections 415 and
401(a)(17), reduced, but not below zero, by the following amounts:  

  (1)           the
amount, if any, payable to the participant under the ExxonMobil Key Employee
Supplemental Pension Plan, and  

  (2)           the
amount, if any, payable to the participant under the ExxonMobil Key Employee
Additional Payments Plan that is not applied as an offset against the
participant's benefit under the ExxonMobil Additional Payments Plan.  

  Where relevant, this
computation is performed after taking into account any entitlement the
participant may have under the Overseas Contributory Annuity Plan.  The
resulting benefit is expressed in the form of a monthly five-year-certain and
life annuity for the life of the participant commencing at the participant s
age 65 ( Normal Retirement Age ).  

  (B)             Benefit
Formula for Former Mobil Employee   

  The payments under
this Plan for Former Mobil Employees who retire with eligibility for Incentive
Pension Benefits under the ExxonMobil Additional Payments Plan shall be the
amounts determined under paragraph (1) below and, if applicable, paragraph (2)
below.  

(1)              In
General   

  The amount benefit
determined under this paragraph (1) shall be the lesser of:  

  (a)           the
amount of the person s benefit otherwise determined under paragraph (A) above,
or  

  (b)           the
excess if any of the person s Overall Benefit Objective as described in section
2.3(B) of the ExxonMobil Additional Payments Plan, over the sum of the person s
benefit under the ExxonMobil Pension Plan (including any Pre-Social Security
Benefit) and the person s Incentive Pension Benefit and Nonqualified PSSP
Benefit, if any, as determined under the ExxonMobil Additional Payments Plan,  

  expressed in the form
of a monthly five-year-certain and life annuity for the life of the participant
commencing at the participant s Normal Retirement Age.   

  (2)              Nonqualified
PSSP Benefits   

  The amount of a
person s benefit determined under this paragraph (2) shall be the amount, if
any, of any Nonqualified PSSP Benefit determined for such person under the
terms of the ExxonMobil Additional Payments Plan.  

2.2             Offsets for Other Pension Benefits   

  A person s benefit
determined under section 2.1 shall be offset, but not below zero, by any
benefit payable to the person under (A) an offsetting pension that is not
qualified under the terms of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, (B) a separation
payment offset, or (C) a non-U.S. governmental pension offset, as such terms
are defined under the ExxonMobil Pension Plan.  

1    

2.3             Plan Administrator Discretion   

  The procedure for
calculating the benefit for former Mobil employees under section 2.1 above, and
for determining the application of the offsets for other pension benefits under
section 2.2 above, shall be determined in the sole and exclusive discretion of
the Plan Administrator.  

3.    Payment of Benefits   

3.1             Timing of Payment   

  (A)             In
General   

  Except as provided in
paragraph (B) or (C) below, payment of the benefit described in article 2 above
shall occur as soon as practicable following the later to occur of the
following:  

  (1)           the
person s termination of employment or retirement from ExxonMobil;  

  (2)           in the
case of a person who, immediately prior to his or her termination or
retirement, has a Classification Level of 36 or above ( Key Employee ), the
six-month anniversary of the person s termination of employment or retirement;  

  (B)             Retirement
Prior to Age 55   

  In the case of a
person who retires from ExxonMobil on account of long-term disability prior to
the first of the month in which the person attains age 55, payment of the
benefit described in article 2 above shall occur on the first of the month in
which the person attains age 55, or as soon as practicable thereafter.  

  (C)             Termination
Prior to Age 50   

  In the case of a
person who terminates employment from ExxonMobil prior to the first of the
month in which the person attains age 50, payment of the benefit described in
article 2 above shall occur on the first of the month in which the person
attains age 50, or as soon as practicable thereafter.   

3.2             Reduction for Early Commencement   

  If payments under
this Plan commence prior to the month in which the person reaches Normal
Retirement Age, they are reduced by applying the early commencement factors
specified under the Pension Plan for a benefit commencing at the person s then
age.    

3.3             Form of Payment   

  Payment of the
benefit described in article 2 above shall be made in a lump sum that is the
actuarial equivalent of the five-year-certain and life annuity calculated under
section 2.1(A) or 2.1(B)(1) or the actuarial equivalent of the PSSP benefit
calculated under 2.1(B)(2).  For this purpose, actuarial equivalence shall
be determined by the Plan Administrator using the factors and procedures that
are used for the calculation of the lump-sum payment option under the Pension
Plan.  

3.4             Adjustment for Key Employees   

  If payment of a Key
Employee s benefit is delayed for six months following termination or
retirement because of the requirement set out in section 3.1(A)(2) above, then
instead of the lump-sum benefit calculated under section 3.3 above, the person
shall receive a lump-sum benefit equal to the greater of the following:  

  (A)          The
lump-sum payment that would otherwise have been calculated for the person under
section 3.3 above as if he were not a Key Employee, based on the payment date
that would have applied to the individual if he were not a Key employee and on
the actuarial factors applicable as of such date under the ExxonMobil Pension
Plan, plus interest for the period of delayed payment; or  

  (B)          A lump-sum
that is the actuarial equivalent of the person s five-year-certain and life
annuity calculated as of the delayed payment date and using the actuarial
factors applicable as of the six-month anniversary of the person s retirement
date.  

  Interest shall be credited
under paragraph (A) above, at a rate equal to the Citibank prime lending rate
in effect on the date the person separates from employment.  

2    

4.    Death Benefit   

4.1             Benefits Payable On Account of Death   

  (A)             In
General   

  In the event a
portion of a pension death benefit or a  career annuity subject to deferred
commencement that commences by reason of death  that becomes payable under the
terms of the Pension Plan on account of the death of a participant cannot be
paid from the Pension Plan because of the application of Code sections 415 and
401(a)(17), a lump-sum death benefit of equivalent value shall be paid to the
participant s beneficiary (as determined under section 4.2 below) under this
Plan.  For this purpose, equivalent value shall be determined by the Plan
Administrator using the factors and procedures that are used for the
calculation of similar benefits under the Pension Plan.  

  (B)             Excluded
Benefits   

  Neither the Qualified
Joint and Survivor Annuity payment option, nor the Surviving Spouse Annuity
benefit, as such are provided for under the Pension Plan, are provided as
benefits under this Plan.  

4.2             Designation of Beneficiaries   

  (A)             In
General   

  A person may name one
or more designated beneficiaries to receive the benefits payable under this
Plan under section 4.1 above in the event of the person's death.
 Beneficiary designations shall be made in accordance with such procedures
as the Plan Administrator may establish.  Spousal consent to any
designation is not required.  

  (B)             Default
Beneficiaries   

  (1)              In
General   

  If no specific
designation is in effect, the deceased s beneficiary is the person or persons
in the first of the following classes of successive beneficiaries living at the
time of death of the deceased:  

  (a)           spouse;  

  (b)           children
who survive the participant or who die before the participant leaving children
of their own who survive the participant;  

  (c)           parents;  

  (d)           brothers
and sisters who survive the participant or who die before the participant
leaving children of their own who survive the participant.  

  If there are no
members of any class of such beneficiaries, payment is made to the deceased's
executors or administrators.  

(2)              Allocation
among Default Beneficiaries   

  If the same class of
beneficiaries under paragraph (1) above contains two or more persons, they
share equally, with further subdivision of such equal shares as next provided.
 In class (b), where a child dies before the participant leaving children
who survive the participant, such child's share is subdivided equally among those
children. In class (d), where a brother or sister dies before the participant
leaving children who survive the participant, such brother or sister's share is
subdivided equally among those children.  

  (3)              Definitions    

  For purposes of this
section 4.2,  child  means a person's son or daughter by legitimate
blood relationship or legal adoption;  parent  means a person's
father or mother by legitimate blood relationship or legal adoption;
 brother  or  sister  means another child of either or both
of one's parents.  

5.    Miscellaneous    

5.1             Administration of Plan   

  The Plan
Administrator shall be the Manager, Compensation, Benefit Plans and Policies,
Human Resources Department, Exxon Mobil Corporation.  The Plan
Administrator shall have the right and authority to conclusively interpret this
Plan for all purposes, including the determination of any person s eligibility
for benefits hereunder and the resolution of any and all appeals relating to
claims by participants or beneficiaries, with any such interpretation being conclusive
for all participants and beneficiaries.  

5.2             Nature of Payments   

  Payments provided
under this Plan are considered general obligations of the Corporation.  

3    

5.3             Assignment or Alienation   

  Except as provided in
section 5.5 below, payments provided under this Plan may not be assigned or
otherwise alienated or pledged.  

5.4             Amendment or Termination   

  The Corporation
reserves the right to amend or terminate this Plan, in whole or in part,
including the right at any time to reduce or eliminate any accrued benefits
hereunder and to alter or amend the benefit formula set out herein.  

5.5             Forfeiture of Benefits   

  No person shall be
entitled to receive payments under this Plan and any payments received under
this Plan shall be forfeited and returned if it is determined by the
Corporation in its sole discretion, acting through its chief executive or such
person or committee as the chief executive may designate, that a person
otherwise entitled to a payment under this Plan or who has commenced receiving
payments under this Plan:  

  (A)          engaged
in gross misconduct harmful to the Corporation,   

  (B)          committed
a criminal violation harmful to the Corporation,   

  (C)          had
concealed actions described in paragraph (A) or (B) above which would have
brought about termination from employment thereby making the person ineligible
for benefits under this Plan,   

  (D)          separated
from service prior to attaining Normal Retirement Age without having received
from the Corporation or its delegatee prior written approval for such
termination, given in the sole discretion of the Corporation or its delegatee
and in the context of recognition that benefits under this Plan would not be
forfeited upon such termination, or  

  (E)           had
been terminated for cause.  

KEY EMPLOYEE
SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN   

K1.    Purpose    

This Plan provides payments from the general assets of Exxon Mobil
Corporation ( Corporation ) to those persons who, as of December 31, 1993,  

  (A)          were
classified at level 36 or above,  

  (B)          were age
50 and above, and   

  (C)          were
participants in the Annuity Plan of Exxon Corporation ( Annuity Plan ) and who,
because of the application of United States Internal Revenue Code ( Code )
sections 415 and 401(a)(17), would have been precluded from receiving from
Annuity Plan funded assets all the payments to which they would otherwise be
entitled under the Annuity Plan's formula.    

  This Plan expresses the Corporation's commitment to provide such
equivalent payments and sets forth the method for doing so.  

K2.    Benefits    

K2.1          Benefit Formula   

  As to any participant
eligible for payment under this Plan, the value of such payments shall be an
amount that when added to the normal form amount that could have been paid to
the participant from the Annuity Plan's qualified funded assets, produces a sum
equal to the total normal form amount to which the participant would have been
entitled computed under the Annuity Plan formula applicable to that participant
as of December 31, 1993, disregarding any reductions, restrictions, or
limitations brought about by Code sections 415 and 401(a)(17).  Where
relevant, all computations will take into account any entitlement the
participant may have under the Overseas Contributory Annuity Plan.  A
participant in this Plan shall have a non-forfeitable right to this amount.  

K2.2          Benefit Payable On Account of Death   

  (A)             Death
Benefit   

  In the event a
pension death benefit is payable under the terms of the ExxonMobil Pension Plan
( Pension Plan ) on account of the death of a participant, a death benefit
shall be payable under this Plan equal to the lump-sum value of the benefit
that would have been payable under section K2.1 above to the participant if the
participant had not died but had terminated employment and had elected to
commence his or her benefit as of the date of death.   

4    

(B)             Deferred
Annuity Death Benefit   

  In the event a
 Career Annuity subject to deferred commencement that commences by reason of
death  is payable under the terms of the Pension Plan on account of the death
of a participant, a similar benefit shall be payable under this Plan based on
the benefit that would have been payable under section K2.1 above to the
participant if the participant had not died.  

  (C)             Calculation
Methodology   

  The exact nature and
amounts of any benefit payable under paragraph (A) or (B) shall be determined
under a methodology established from time to time by the Plan Administrator.  

  (D)             Excluded
Benefits   

  Specifically excluded
from coverage and entitlement under this Plan are:  

  (1)           the
legally mandated Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity, and   

  (2)           the
right to elect a Surviving Spouse Annuity  

  as such are
established for married participants in the Pension Plan.  

K3.    Beneficiaries    

K3.1          Designation of Beneficiaries   

  A person entitled to
receive benefits under this Plan may name one or more designated beneficiaries
to receive the benefits payable under this Plan under section K2.2 above in the
event of the person's death in accordance with such procedures as the Plan
Administrator may establish.  Spousal consent to any designation in not required.  

K3.2          Default Beneficiaries   

  (A)             In
General   

  If no specific
designation is in effect, the deceased s beneficiary is the person or persons
in the first of the following classes of successive beneficiaries living at the
time of death of the deceased:  

  (1)           spouse;  

  (2)           children
who survive the participant or who die before the participant leaving children
of their own who survive the participant;  

  (3)           parents;  

  (4)           brothers
and sisters who survive the participant or who die before the participant
leaving children of their own who survive the participant.  

  If there are no
members of any class of such beneficiaries, payment is made to the deceased's
executors or administrators.  

  (B)             Allocation
among Default Beneficiaries   

  If the same class of
beneficiaries under paragraph (A) above contains two or more persons, they
share equally, with further subdivision of such equal shares as next provided.
 In class (2), where a child dies before the participant leaving children
who survive the participant, such child's share shall be subdivided equally
among those children. In class (4), where a brother or sister dies before the
participant leaving children who survive the participant, such brother or
sister's share shall be subdivided equally among those children.  

  (C)             Definitions    

  For purposes of this
section K3.2,  child  means a person's son or daughter by legitimate
blood relationship or legal adoption;  parent  means a person's
father or mother by legitimate blood relationship or legal adoption;
 brother  or  sister  means another child of either or both
of one's parents.  

K4.    Payment of Benefits   

K4.1          Commencement of Benefits   

  (A)             In
General   

  Payments under this
Plan occur at the same time as payments under the ExxonMobil Supplemental
Pension Plan commence.   

  (B)             Reduction
for Early Commencement   

  If payments under
this Plan commence prior to the month in which the person reaches age 65, they
are reduced by applying the early commencement factors for retirees set forth
in the Pension Plan for a normal maturity age of 65.  For all actuarial
purposes, this monthly amount paid as a five-year certain life annuity is
deemed the normal form amount.    

5    

K4.2          Form of Payment   

  Payments under this
Plan shall be made in the form of a lump sum that is the actuarial equivalent
of the five-year-certain and life annuity in which the normal form of benefit
is expressed.  For this purpose, actuarial equivalency shall be determined
by the Plan Administrator using the factors used for comparable determinations
under the Pension Plan.  

K5.    Miscellaneous    

K5.1          Administration of Plan   

  The Plan
Administrator shall be the Manager, Compensation, Benefit Plans and Policies,
Human Resources Department, ExxonMobil Corporation.  The Plan
Administrator shall have the right and authority to conclusively interpret this
Plan for all purposes, including the determination of any person s eligibility
for benefits hereunder and the resolution of any and all appeals relating to
claims by participants or beneficiaries, with any such interpretation being
conclusive for all participants and beneficiaries.  

K5.2          Nature of Payments   

  Payments provided
under this Plan shall be considered general obligations of the Corporation.  

K5.3          Assignment or Alienation   

  Payments provided
under this Plan may not be assigned or otherwise alienated or pledged.  

K5.4          Amendment or Termination   

  The Corporation
reserves the right to amend or terminate this Plan, in whole or in part, so
long as the amendment does not deprive any person of the non-forfeitable right
to benefits specifically granted in this Plan.  

6    

</EX-10.(III) (C2)>

<EX-10.(III) (C3)>
 8
 xom10iiic3.htm
 EXXONMOBIL ADDITIONAL PAYMENTS PLAN

EXHIBIT 10(iii)(c.3)   

EXXONMOBIL
ADDITIONAL PAYMENTS PLAN    

1.    Purpose    

The purpose of this Plan is to provide
additional payments from the general assets of Exxon Mobil Corporation (the
 Corporation ) to certain persons.  The benefits payable under this Plan
consist of two types of pension benefits and a disability benefit.  The
first pension benefit is a benefit based upon the person s final average
incentive compensation ( Incentive Pension Benefit ).  The second pension
benefit restores certain benefits that are accrued under a pension plan
sponsored by a non-U.S. affiliate of the Corporation but which are not paid
( Overseas Makeup Benefit ).  The disability benefit is based on incentive
compensation and is paid in the event of a long-term disability ( Disability
Benefit ).  

2.    Incentive
Pension Benefits   

2.1             Eligibility    

  A person is eligible
to receive Incentive Pension Benefits only if the person satisfies at either of
the following requirements:  

  (A)          the person becomes a retiree within the meaning of
the ExxonMobil Common Provisions ( retiree  or  

  (B)          in the case of an individual who after terminating
employment from the Corporation or any of its affiliates continues employment
with Infineum USA Inc. or one of its affiliates (collectively,  Infineum ),
becomes a qualified plans retiree within the meaning of the ExxonMobil Common
Provisions ( qualified plans retiree ).  

2.2             Benefit Formula   

  (A)             In
General   

  Except as provided in
section 2.3 below with respect to former Mobil employees, as defined in the
ExxonMobil Common Provisions ( Former Mobil Employees ), the amount of a
person s Incentive Pension Benefit is determined by multiplying 1.6% of the
person s final average incentive compensation by the person s years of
pensionable service as determined under the ExxonMobil Pension Plan (reduced,
but not below zero, by the equivalent amount, if any, determined with respect
to the person under the ExxonMobil Key Employee Additional Payments Plan), and
dividing the amount so derived by twelve.  The amount so derived is
expressed in the form of a monthly five-year certain and life annuity for the
life of the person commencing at the person s age 65 ( Normal Retirement Age ).  

  (B)             Final
Average Incentive Compensation   

  For the purposes of
paragraph (A) above, a person's  final average incentive compensation  shall be
determined in accordance with this paragraph (B).  

  (1)              Calculation    

  (a)              In
General   

  If a person s
eligibility for Incentive Pension Benefits arises from section 2.1(A) above,
the person's final average incentive compensation is the average of the
person's three highest annual bonus awards (including awards of zero, if any)
under the Corporation's Incentive Programs awarded on any of the five most
recent annual award dates immediately preceding the person s termination of
employment.  

  (b)              Corporate
Acquisitions   

  For purposes of
applying paragraph (A) above to a person who commences employment with the
Corporation or one of its affiliates in connection with a corporate
acquisition, incentive compensation paid by the person s former employer that
is the equivalent of bonus awards payable under the Corporation s Incentive
Program may be taken into account as determined by the management of the
Corporation in its sole discretion.  Management shall have the discretion
to exclude any and all prior employer compensation for purposes of this
paragraph (b).  

  (2)              Infineum
Participants   

  If a person s
eligibility for Incentive Pension Benefits arises from Section 2.1(B) above,
the person's final average incentive compensation is the sum of the three
highest annual bonus awards under the Corporation's Incentive Programs, if any,
during the five-year period immediately prior to the person's termination of
employment from Infineum, divided by three.  

1    

(3)              Annual
Bonus Award   

  (a)              Items
Used in Calculation   

  For purposes of this
paragraph (B), in determining the amount of a person's annual bonus award, only
awards granted under the short-term incentive part of the Incentive Programs as
cash and bonus units are considered.  

  (b)              Item
Excluded From Calculation   

  For purposes of this
paragraph (B), in determining the amount of a person's annual bonus award, an
award to a person characterized by the granting authority as a special one-time
bonus is disregarded, unless deemed specifically includable by the granting
authority at the time of grant.  

  (c)              Calculation of Annual Bonus Award   

  If an annual bonus
award is granted as bonus units, the maximum settlement value obtainable at the
time of the grant shall be used in calculating the value of the award.  

2.3             Benefit Formula for
Former Mobil Employee   

  (A)             In
General   

  Incentive Pension
Benefits for Former Mobil Employees who retire with eligibility for Incentive
Pension Benefits under section 2.1 above shall be determined under this section
2.3.  The amount of a person s Incentive Pension Benefit calculated under
this section 2.3 is the smaller of   

  (1)           the amount of the person s Incentive Pension Benefit
otherwise determined under section 2.2 above based on all of the person s
pensionable service under the ExxonMobil Pension Plan, or  

  (2)           the amount determined by first calculating the
person s Overall Benefit Objective under paragraph (B) below, then subtracting
therefrom the person s Qualified Benefit Objective calculated under paragraph
(C) below and the person s nonqualified PSSP benefit, if any, determined under
paragraph (D) below.    

  The resulting amount
is expressed as a monthly five-year certain and life annuity for the life of
the person commencing at the person s Normal Retirement Age.  

  (B)             Overall
Benefit Objective   

  (1)              In
General   

  A person s Overall
Benefit Objective is the greater of   

  (a)           the sum of the person s Mobil Benefit described in
paragraph (2) below and the person s Post-Mobil Benefit described in paragraph
(3) below, or  

  (b)           the person s Overall ExxonMobil Benefit described in
paragraph (4) below.  

  (2)              Mobil Benefit   

  A person s Mobil
Benefit is the person s accrued benefit under the Retirement Plan of Mobil Oil
Corporation and the Supplemental Pension and Annuity Program of Mobil Oil
Corporation up through the date the person becomes a participant in the ExxonMobil
Pension Plan, based on service and compensation up through the date the person
becomes a participant in the ExxonMobil Pension Plan.  

  (3)              Post-Mobil Benefit    

  A person s Post-Mobil
Benefit is the person s accrued benefit described in paragraph (4) below based
only on the person s pensionable service after the person becomes a participant
in the ExxonMobil Pension Plan.  

  (4)              Overall ExxonMobil Benefit   

  A person s Overall ExxonMobil Benefit is the sum of   

  (a)           the person s accrued benefit under the ExxonMobil
Pension Plan (including the Pre-Social Security Pension benefit) without any
application of the limits under Code section 415 or 401(a)(17), and   

  (b)           the amount of the person s Incentive Pension Benefit
otherwise determined under section 2.2 above,  

  based on all of the
person s pensionable service under the ExxonMobil Pension Plan.  

  (5)              Rules for Calculation   

  In calculating a
person s Mobil Benefit, Post-Mobil Benefit and Overall ExxonMobil Benefit, the
Plan administrator shall apply rules similar to those contained in section 2.7
of the ExxonMobil Pension Plan for purposes of calculating the person s frozen
Mobil benefit, post-Mobil benefit, and ExxonMobil benefit, respectively.  

  (C)             Qualified
Benefit Objective   

  A person s Qualified
Benefit Objective is the person s accrued benefit under the ExxonMobil Pension
Plan, including the person s Pre-Social Security Pension.  

2    

(D)             Nonqualified PSSP Benefit   

  A person s
Nonqualified PSSP Benefit is the excess, if any, of  

  (1)           the amount of the person s Pre-Social Security
Pension benefit calculated in connection with the person s Overall Benefit
Objective under paragraph (B) above, over  

  (2)           the amount of the person s Pre-Social Security
Pension benefit or the equivalent thereof under Part 2 of the ExxonMobil
Pension Plan calculated in connection with the person s Qualified Benefit
Objective under paragraph (C) above.  

  (E)              Plan
Administrator Discretion   

  The procedure for
calculating the Incentive Pension Benefit for former Mobil employees under this
section 2.3, including the calculation of the benefit comparisons, offsets and
reductions, shall be determined in the sole and exclusive discretion of the
Plan Administrator.  To the extent applicable, the Plan Administrator shall
follow the procedures established under the ExxonMobil Pension Plan for
performing similar benefit calculations.  

2.4             Offset for Similar
Benefits   

  If a participant
under this Plan is also entitled to payments comparable to the Incentive
Pension Benefit for any portion of the same years of pensionable service under
a plan of a service-oriented employer, as defined in the ExxonMobil Common
Provisions, other than the Corporation, the amount of the Incentive Pension
Benefit is reduced by the respective amount of such comparable payments.
 In any given case, the Plan Administrator may determine the precise
amount of this offset and if a conversion of currency computation is required,
may follow the process established under the ExxonMobil Pension Plan.  

2.5             Lapse of Incentive
Pension Benefit   

  The portion of any
Incentive Pension Benefit deriving from a provisionally granted bonus that is
subsequently annulled lapses as of the date of such annulment.  

3.    Overseas Makeup
Benefit   

3.1             Eligibility    

  A person is eligible
to receive an Overseas Makeup Benefit if the following conditions are met as
determined by the Plan Administrator:  

  (A)          the person accrues a benefit under a pension plan
( non-U.S. plan ) sponsored by a non-U.S. affiliate of the Corporation;  

  (B)          the person terminates active participation in the
non-U.S. plan and simultaneously becomes a participant in the ExxonMobil
Pension Plan or predecessor plan;  

  (C)          as a result of terminating active participant status
under the non-U.S. plan, the person loses eligibility for all or a portion of
the benefit under the non-U.S. plan accrued prior to termination; and   

  (D)          the amount of the lost benefit is not provided under
the terms of the ExxonMobil Pension Plan, the ExxonMobil Supplemental Pension
Plan, or otherwise under this Plan.  

3.2             Benefit Formula   

  The amount of the
Overseas Makeup Benefit is the amount, expressed as a monthly benefit in the
form of a five-year certain and life annuity, that is the actuarial equivalent
of the lost benefit under the non-U.S. plan.  Such amount shall be
conclusively determined by the Plan Administrator.  

4.    Payment of
Pension Benefits   

4.1             Timing of Payment   

  (A)             In
General   

  Except as provided
under paragraph (B) below, payment of a person s Incentive Pension Benefit and,
if applicable, Overseas Makeup Benefit shall occur as soon as practicable
following the later to occur of the following:  

  (1)           The
person s retirement from ExxonMobil; or   

  (2)           In the case of a person who, immediately prior to
his or her retirement, has a Classification Level of 36 or above ( Key
Employee ), the six-month anniversary of the person s retirement.  

  (B)             Exception for Disability Retirees   

  In the case of a
person who retires with eligibility for Disability Benefits under article 6
below prior to the first of the month in which the person attains age 55,
payment of such benefit shall occur as of the first of the month in which the
person attains age 55, or as soon as practicable thereafter.   

3    

4.2             Reduction for Early
Commencement   

  If a payment under
section 4.1 above occurs prior to the month in which the person reaches Normal
Retirement Age, it is reduced by applying the early commencement factors
specified under the ExxonMobil Pension Plan for a benefit commencing at the
person s then age.   

4.3             Form of Payment   

  Payment of a person s
Incentive Pension Benefit or Overseas Makeup Benefit shall be made in a lump
sum that is the actuarial equivalent of the five-year-certain and life annuity.
 For this purpose, actuarial equivalence shall be determined by the Plan
Administrator using the factors and procedures that are used for the
calculation of the lump-sum payment option under the ExxonMobil Pension Plan.  

4.4             Adjustment for Key
Employees   

  If payment of a Key
Employee s Incentive Pension Benefit and/or Overseas Makeup Benefit is delayed
for six months following retirement because of the requirement set out in
section 4.1(A)(2) above, then instead of the lump-sum benefit calculated under
section 4.3 above, the person shall receive a lump-sum benefit equal to the
greater of the following:  

  (A)          The lump-sum payment that would otherwise have been
calculated for the person under section 4.3 above as if he were not a Key
Employee, based on the payment date that would have applied to the individual
if he were not a Key employee and on the actuarial factors applicable as of
such date under the ExxonMobil Pension Plan, plus interest for the period of
delayed payment; or  

  (B)          A lump-sum that is the actuarial equivalent of the
person s five-year-certain and life annuity calculated as of the delayed
payment date and using the actuarial factors applicable as of the six-month
anniversary of the person s retirement date.   

  Interest shall be
credited under paragraph (A) above, at a rate equal to the Citibank prime
lending rate in effect on the date the person separates from employment.  

5.    Death Benefit   

5.1             In General   

  If a person dies who,
at the time of his death,   

  (A)          is an active employee with 15 or more years of
Benefit Plan Service, as determined under the ExxonMobil Common Provisions, or  

  (B)          had retired with eligibility for an Incentive Pension
Benefit and/or a Overseas Makeup Benefit and had not received such benefit, a
lump-sum death benefit shall be payable to the person s beneficiary (as
determined under section 5.2 below).  The death benefit payable to the
person s beneficiary shall be the lump-sum equivalent value of the amount of
the Pension Benefit and Overseas Makeup Benefit to which the person was or
would have been entitled.  For this purpose, equivalent value shall be
determined by the Plan Administrator using the factors and procedures that are
used for the calculation of similar benefits under the ExxonMobil Pension Plan.  

5.2             Designation of
Beneficiaries   

  (A)             In
General   

  A person may name one
or more designated beneficiaries to receive payment of the death benefits
payable under section 5.1  above in the event of the person's death.
 Beneficiary designations shall be made in accordance with such procedures
as the Plan Administrator may establish.  Spousal consent to any such
designation is not required.  

  (B)             Default
Beneficiaries   

  (1)              In
General   

  If no specific
designation is in effect, the deceased s beneficiary is the person or persons
in the first of the following classes of successive beneficiaries living at the
time of death of the deceased:  

  (a)           spouse;  

  (b)           children who survive the deceased or who die before
the deceased leaving children of their own who survive the deceased;  

  (c)           parents;  

  (d)           brothers and sisters who survive the deceased or who
die before the deceased leaving children of their own who survive the deceased.  

  If there are no
members of any class of  such beneficiaries, payment is made to the deceased's
executors or administrators.  

4    

(2)              Allocation
Among Default Beneficiaries   

  If the same class of
beneficiaries under paragraph (1) above contains two or more persons, they
share equally, with further subdivision of such equal shares as next provided.
 In class (b), where a child dies before the deceased leaving children who
survive the deceased, such child's share is subdivided equally among those
children.  In class (d), where a brother or sister dies before the
deceased leaving children who survive the deceased, such brother or sister's
share is subdivided equally among those children.  

  (3)              Definitions    

  For purposes of this
section 5.4,  child  means a person's son or daughter by legitimate
blood relationship or legal adoption;  parent  means a person's
father or mother by legitimate blood relationship or legal adoption;
 brother  or  sister  means another child of either or both
of one's parents.  

6.    Disability
Benefit   

6.1             Nature of Disability
Benefits   

  The benefits provided
under this article 6 ( Disability Benefits ) are in the nature of long-term
disability benefits, payable on account of and for the duration of a person s
incapacity on account of disability.  These Disability Benefits are
intended to qualify as employee welfare benefits under ERISA and as  disability
pay  under section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and its supporting
regulations, thereby being exempt from the scope and application of section
409A.  

6.2             Payment of Disability
Benefit   

  If a person who
becomes a retiree also becomes entitled to long-term disability benefits under
the ExxonMobil Disability Plan, the person shall receive monthly Disability
Benefits under this Plan.  Such Disability Benefits shall commence at the
time the person commences long-term disability benefits under the ExxonMobil
Disability Plan and shall continue as long as entitlement to long-term
disability or transition benefits under such plan continues.    

6.3             Benefit Formula   

  (A)             In
General   

  The amount of each
monthly Disability Benefit payable to a person is determined by dividing
one-half of the person s final average incentive compensation, determined under
section 2.2(B) above, by 12 and deducting therefrom the offset described in
paragraph (B) below.  

  (B)             Offset    

  Commencing with the
month in which a person s Incentive Pension Benefit is paid, the amount of the
person s monthly Disability Benefit shall be reduced by the monthly amount of
the person s Incentive Pension Benefit and/or Overseas Makeup Benefit
(expressed as a five-year-certain and life annuity).  In the case of a Key
Employee, the offset provided under this paragraph (B) shall be applied
beginning with the month his or her Incentive Pension Benefit would have been
paid if he or she were not a Key Employee.  

6.4             Offset for Similar
Benefit   

  If a person receiving
Disability Benefits hereunder is also entitled to comparable payments under a
plan of a service-oriented employer (as defined in the ExxonMobil Common
Provisions) other than the Corporation under circumstances where the Plan
Administrator determines that such benefits are duplicative of the Disability
Benefits payable hereunder, then such Disability Benefits shall be reduced by
the amount of such comparable payment.  In any given case, the Plan
Administrator may determine the precise amount of this offset and if a
conversion of currency computation is required, may follow the process
established under the ExxonMobil Pension Plan.  

6.5             Disability Death Benefit   

  (A)             Death During Employment   

  If a person dies as
an active employee with 15 or more years of Benefit Plan Service, as determined
under the ExxonMobil Common Provisions, then the person s beneficiary (as
determined under section 5.2 above) shall receive a disability death benefit
equal to the present value of 60 monthly installments of the person s
Disability Benefit, calculated as if the person had become eligible for
Disability Benefit payments on the day prior to death.  For purposes of
this paragraph (A), the value of the person s Disability Benefit installments
shall be      

5    

determined by applying the offset under
section 6.3(B) above as if the person s Incentive Pension Benefit and/or
Overseas Makeup Benefit were payable at the time of death.  

  (B)             Death After Commencement of Disability Retirement
Payments   

  If a person dies
while receiving Disability Benefits under this article 6 but before the receipt
of 60 monthly installments, the person s beneficiary (as determined under
section 5.2 above) shall receive the lump-sum equivalent value of the remaining
60 monthly installments.  If at the time of death the person s Incentive
Pension Benefit had not been paid, then the value of the person s remaining
Disability Benefit installments shall be determined by applying the offset
under section 6.3(B) above as if the person s Incentive Pension Benefit and/or
Overseas Makeup Benefit were paid at the time of death.  

7.    Miscellaneous    

7.1             Plan Administrator   

  The Plan
Administrator shall be the Manager, Compensation, Benefit Plans and Policies,
Human Resources Department, Exxon Mobil Corporation.  The Plan
Administrator shall have the right and authority to conclusively interpret this
Plan for all purposes, including the determination of any person s eligibility
for benefits hereunder and the resolution of any and all appeals relating to
claims by participants or beneficiaries, with any such interpretation being
conclusive for all participants and beneficiaries.  

7.2             Nature of Payments   

  Payments provided
under this Plan are considered general obligations of the Corporation.  

7.3             Assignment or Alienation   

  Except as provided in
section 7.5 below, payments provided under this Plan may not be assigned or
otherwise alienated or pledged.  

7.4             Amendment or Termination   

  The Corporation
reserves the right to amend or terminate this Plan, in whole or in part, including
the right at any time to reduce or eliminate any accrued benefits hereunder and
to alter or amend the benefit formula set out herein.  

7.5             Forfeiture Of Benefits   

  No person shall be
entitled to receive payments under this Plan, and any payments received under
this Plan shall be forfeited and returned, if it is determined by the
Corporation in its sole discretion, acting through its chief executive or such
person or committee as the chief executive may designate, that a person
otherwise entitled to a payment under this Plan or who has commenced receiving
payments under this Plan:  

  (A)          engaged in gross misconduct harmful to the
Corporation,   

  (B)          committed a criminal violation harmful to the
Corporation,   

  (C)          had concealed actions described in (A) or (B) above
which would have brought about termination from employment thereby making the
person ineligible for benefits under this Plan,   

  (D)          separated from service prior to attaining Normal
Retirement Age without having received from the Corporation or its delegatee
prior written approval for such termination, given in the sole discretion of
the Corporation or its delegatee and in the context of recognition that
benefits under this Plan would not be forfeited upon such termination, or  

  (E)           had been terminated for cause.  

6    

</EX-10.(III) (C3)>

<EX-10.(III) (F1)>
 9
 xom10iiif1.htm
 2004 NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR RESTRICTED STOCK PLAN

EXHIBIT 10(iii)(f.1)   

2004 NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR RESTRICTED STOCK PLAN   

I.             Purposes   

This Plan is intended to help the
Corporation attract and retain highly qualified individuals to serve as
non-employee directors of the Corporation and to align further the interests of
the non-employee directors with the interests of the Corporation's shareholders
by paying a substantial portion of non-employee director compensation in the
form of restricted stock or restricted stock units.  

II.            Definitions   

The following definitions apply:  

(1)            Administrator 
means the Secretary of the Corporation.  

(2)            Award 
means a grant of restricted stock or restricted stock units under this Plan.  

(3)            Board 
means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.  

(4)            Corporation 
means Exxon Mobil Corporation, a New Jersey corporation, or its successors.  

(5)            Non-employee
director  means any member of the Board who is not an employee of the
Corporation or any affiliate of the Corporation.  

(6)            Participant 
means each non-employee director to whom an award is granted under this Plan.  

(7)            Plan 
means this Exxon Mobil Corporation 2004 Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock
Plan, as it may be amended from time to time.  

(8)            Restricted
period  means the period of time an award is subject to restrictions as
set forth in Section VII.  

(9)            Restricted
stock  means shares granted under this Plan subject to restrictions on
transfer and potential forfeiture during the applicable restricted period.  

(10)          Restricted
stock unit  means a stock unit granted under this Plan with a value equal
to the value of a share and subject to restrictions on transfer and potential
forfeiture during the applicable restricted period.  

(11)          Retirement
age  means the age after which a non-employee director is no longer
eligible to stand for election in accordance with the Corporation's Corporate
Governance Guidelines.  

(12)          Share 
means a share of common stock of the Corporation, no par value.  

III.          Administration   

The Board has ultimate authority
to administer this Plan, including authority to grant or amend awards; to
determine, subject to the limitations contained in this Plan, the terms and
conditions of awards; and to construe and interpret Plan provisions.  Subject
to the oversight of the Board, the administrator has authority to establish
procedures and forms, and to take other actions assigned to the administrator
under this Plan.  

1    

IV.          Effective
Date; Term   

This Plan will become effective
when approved by the shareholders of the Corporation and will terminate when
there are no longer any outstanding awards under the Plan.  

V.            Available Shares   

(1)           The
maximum number of shares issued pursuant to awards under this Plan may not
exceed 1,000,000.  

(2)           If
an award is forfeited, the shares subject to that award will not be considered
to have been issued and will not count against the Plan maximum under clause
(1) of this Section.  

VI.          Grants of Awards;
Eligibility   

Subject to the terms and
conditions of this Plan, the Board may grant restricted stock or restricted
stock units under this Plan at such times, in such amounts, and upon such terms
and conditions as the Board determines.  The Board may establish standing
resolutions for this purpose.  Awards under this Plan may only be made to a
person who, at the time of grant, is serving as a non-employee director.  

VII.         Restrictions on
Transfer; Forfeiture   

(1)           Unless
the Board specifies otherwise in an award, the restricted period for an award
under this Plan will commence on the date the award is granted and will expire
on the earliest to occur of the following:  

(a)           the
participant leaves the Board after reaching retirement age;  

(b)           the
participant leaves the Board before reaching retirement age and the Board, with
the participant abstaining, votes to lift the restrictions on the participant's
awards; or  

(c)           the
participant dies.  

(2)           During
the restricted period, awards may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged,
or otherwise disposed of or encumbered.  The designation of a beneficiary
pursuant to Section XII will not be considered a disposition or encumbrance for
this purpose.  

(3)           If
the participant ceases to be a member of the Board and the restricted period
for the participant's awards does not expire as provided in paragraph (1) of
this Section, all the participant's awards under this Plan will be forfeited
and all right, title, and interest of the participant to receive any shares or
amounts in connection with such awards will terminate without further
obligation on the part of the Corporation.  

VIII.       Shareholder
Status; Dividends and Dividend Equivalents   

(1)           During
the restricted period, a participant to whom restricted stock is issued will
have customary rights of a shareholder with respect to such shares, including
the rights to vote the shares and receive cash dividends (subject to the
applicable restrictions on transfer and events of forfeiture).  Cash dividends
on restricted stock will be paid currently or, if the Board so determines,
reinvested in additional shares of restricted stock.  

2    

(2)           During
the restricted period, a participant to whom restricted stock units are
credited will not be a shareholder of the Corporation with respect to such
units.  However, the Corporation will credit each restricted stock unit with
dividend equivalents corresponding in amount and timing to cash dividends that
would be payable with respect to an outstanding share.  Dividend equivalents
will be paid currently or, if the Board so determines, will be deemed to be
reinvested in additional restricted stock units.  

IX.          Form
of Awards   

(1)           During
the restricted period, shares of restricted stock will be registered in the
name of the participant but will be held by or on behalf of the Corporation in
certificate or book-entry form as the administrator determines.  Each
participant agrees by accepting an award of restricted stock that the
Corporation may give stop transfer instructions to its transfer agent or
custodian with respect to the restricted stock and that, during the restricted
period, any restricted stock issued in certificate form may bear an appropriate
legend noting the restrictions, risk of forfeiture, and other conditions.  If
required by the administrator, awards of restricted stock may be subject to
execution by the participant of a stock power with respect to such shares in
favor of the Corporation.  

(2)           During
the restricted period, restricted stock units will be evidenced by book-entry
credits in records maintained by or on behalf of the Corporation.  Restricted
stock units will represent only an unfunded and unsecured contractual right to
receive shares or cash, if any, payable in settlement of the award.  

X.            Settlement
of Awards   

(1)           If
and when the restricted period expires with respect to an award of restricted
stock, the Corporation will, subject to Section XIII, deliver shares free of
restriction to or for the account of the participant, or the participant's
estate, or designated beneficiary, if applicable.  

(2)           Restricted
stock units will be settled in shares or, if so provided in the award, in
cash.  If and when the restricted period expires with respect to an award of
restricted stock units, the Corporation will, subject to Section XIII, deliver
one share free of restriction or pay an amount in cash equal to the fair market
value of one share in settlement of each unit to or for the account of the
participant, or the participant's estate, or designated beneficiary, if
applicable.  

(3)           Shares
will be delivered in certificate or book-entry form and cash (including
dividends or dividend equivalents) will be paid by check, wire transfer, or
direct deposit, in each case in accordance with the procedures of the
administrator in effect at the time.  

(4)           The
issuance or delivery of any shares may be postponed by the Corporation for such
period as may in the determination of the administrator be required to comply
with any applicable requirements under the federal securities laws (including,
without limitation, the exemptions provided in Rule 16b-3 under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934), any applicable listing requirements of any national
securities exchange, or any other requirements or exemptions  applicable to the
issuance or delivery of such shares.  The Corporation will not be obligated to
issue or deliver any shares if the issuance or delivery would constitute a
violation of any provision of any law or of any regulation of any governmental
authority or any national securities exchange.  

3    

XI.          Change
in Capitalization; Adjustments   

If a stock split, stock dividend,
merger, or other relevant change in capitalization occurs,  the administrator
will adjust the terms of outstanding awards, including the number of restricted
stock units credited to a participant's account or the securities issuable in
settlement of such units, as well as the maximum number of shares issuable
under Section V, as appropriate to prevent dilution or enlargement of the
rights of non-employee directors under this Plan.  Any new shares or securities
issued with respect to outstanding restricted stock will be delivered to and held
by or on behalf of the Corporation, and will be subject to the same provisions,
restrictions, and requirements as such restricted stock.  

XII.        Beneficiary
Designation   

Participants may designate a
beneficiary to whom shares or cash in settlement of outstanding awards under
this Plan may be delivered or paid on the death of the participant,    provided    
that such designation will only be given effect if the designation is expressly
authorized as a non-testamentary transfer under applicable laws of descent and distribution
as determined by the administrator.  Beneficiary designations will be subject
to such forms, requirements, and procedures as the administrator may establish.  

XIII.       Withholding Taxes   

The Corporation has the right, in
its sole discretion, to deduct or withhold at any time shares or cash subject
to or otherwise deliverable or payable in connection with an award (including
cash payable as dividends or dividend equivalents) as may in the determination
of the administrator be necessary to satisfy any required withholding or
similar taxes with respect to such awards.  Withheld shares may be retained by
the Corporation or sold on behalf of the participant.  

XIV.       Amendments to the
Plan; Shareholder Approval   

(1)           The
Board may from time to time amend or cease granting awards under this Plan;     provided    
that approval of the shareholders of the Corporation will be required for any
amendment:  

(a)           To
increase the total number of shares issuable under the Plan under Section V
(except for adjustments under Section XI); or  

(b)           That
would otherwise constitute a  material revision  within the meaning
of applicable rules of the New York Stock Exchange in effect at the time.  

(2)           An
amendment of this Plan will, unless the amendment provides otherwise, be
immediately and automatically effective for all outstanding awards.  

(3)           The
Board may also amend any outstanding award under this Plan, provided the award,
as amended, contains only such terms and conditions as would be permitted or
required for a new award under this Plan.  

XV.         General Provisions   

(1)           Shares
subject to awards under this Plan may either be authorized but unissued shares
or previously issued shares that have been reacquired by the Corporation.  

(2)           The
administrator is authorized to establish forms of agreement between the
Corporation and each participant to evidence awards under this Plan, and to
require execution of such agreements as a condition to a participant's receipt
of an award.  

4    

(3)           The
grant of an award under this Plan does not give a participant any right to
remain a director of the Corporation.  

(4)           This
Plan will be governed by the laws of the State of New York and the United
States of America, without regard to any conflict of law rules.  

5    

</EX-10.(III) (F1)>

<EX-12>
 10
 xomexhibit12.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

EXHIBIT
12   

</EX-12>

<EX-14>
 11
 xomexhibit14.htm
 CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT

EXHIBIT 14   

CODE OF ETHICS
AND BUSINESS CONDUCT   

Ethics
Policy   

The
policy of Exxon Mobil Corporation is to comply with all governmental laws,
rules, and regulations applicable to its business.  

The
Corporation's Ethics policy does not stop there.  Even where the law is
permissive, the Corporation chooses the course of highest integrity.  Local
customs, traditions, and mores differ from place to place, and this must be
recognized.  But honesty is not subject to criticism in any culture.  Shades of
dishonesty simply invite demoralizing and reprehensible judgments.  A
well-founded reputation for scrupulous dealing is itself a priceless corporate
asset.  

The
Corporation cares how results are obtained, not just that they are obtained. 
Directors, officers, and employees should deal fairly with each other and with
the Corporation's suppliers, customers, competitors, and other third parties.    

The
Corporation expects compliance with its standard of integrity throughout the
organization and will not tolerate employees who achieve results at the cost of
violation of law or who deal unscrupulously.  The Corporation's directors and
officers support, and expect the Corporation's employees to support, any
employee who passes up an opportunity or advantage that would sacrifice ethical
standards.  

It
is the Corporation's policy that all transactions will be accurately reflected
in its books and records.  This, of course, means that falsification of books
and records and the creation or maintenance of any off-the-record bank accounts
are strictly prohibited.  Employees are expected to record all transactions
accurately in the Corporation's books and records, and to be honest and
forthcoming with the Corporation's internal and independent auditors.   

The
Corporation expects candor from employees at all levels and adherence to its
policies and internal controls.  One harm which results when employees conceal
information from higher management or the auditors is that other employees
think they are being given a signal that the Corporation's policies and
internal controls can be ignored when they are inconvenient.  That can result
in corruption and demoralization of an organization.  The Corporation's system
of management will not work without honesty, including honest bookkeeping,
honest budget proposals, and honest economic evaluation of projects.  

It
is the Corporation's policy to make full, fair, accurate, timely, and
understandable disclosure in reports and documents that the Corporation files
with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, and in other public
communications.  All employees are responsible for reporting material
information known to them to higher management so that the information will be
available to senior executives responsible for making disclosure decisions.  

Conflicts of Interest Policy   

It
is the policy of Exxon Mobil Corporation that directors, officers, and
employees are expected to avoid any actual or apparent conflict between their
own personal interests and the interests of the Corporation.  A conflict of
interest can arise when a director, officer, or employee takes actions or has
personal interests that may interfere with his or her objective and effective
performance of work for the Corporation.  For example, directors, officers, and
employees are expected to avoid actual or apparent conflict in dealings with
suppliers, customers, competitors, and other third parties.  Directors,
officers, and employees are expected to refrain from taking for themselves
opportunities discovered through their use of corporate assets or through their
positions with the Corporation.  Directors, officers, and employees are
expected to avoid securities transactions based on material, nonpublic
information learned through their positions with the Corporation.  Directors,
officers, and employees are expected to refrain from competing with the
Corporation.    

1    

Corporate
Assets Policy   

It
is the policy of Exxon Mobil Corporation that directors, officers, and
employees are expected to protect the assets of the Corporation and use them
efficiently to advance the interests of the Corporation.  Those assets include
tangible assets and intangible assets, such as confidential information of the
Corporation.  No director, officer, or employee should use or disclose at any
time during or subsequent to employment or other service to the Corporation,
without proper authority or mandate, confidential information obtained from any
source in the course of the Corporation's business.  Examples of confidential
information include nonpublic information about the Corporation's plans,
earnings, financial forecasts, business forecasts, discoveries, competitive
bids, technologies, and personnel.  

Directorships
Policy   

It
is the policy of Exxon Mobil Corporation to restrict the holding by officers
and employees of directorships in nonaffiliated, for-profit organizations and
to prohibit the acceptance by any officer or employee of such directorships
that would involve a conflict of interest with, or interfere with, the
discharge of the officer's or employee's duties to the Corporation.  Any
officer or employee may hold directorships in nonaffiliated, nonprofit
organizations, unless such directorships would involve a conflict of interest
with, or interfere with, the discharge of the officer's or employee's duties to
the Corporation, or obligate the Corporation to provide support to the
nonaffiliated, nonprofit organizations.  Officers and employees may serve as
directors of affiliated companies and such service may be part of their normal
work assignments.  

All
directorships in public companies held by directors of the Corporation are
subject to review and approval by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. 
In all other cases, directorships in nonaffiliated, for-profit organizations
are subject to review and approval by the management of the Corporation, as
directed by the Chairman.   

Procedures and Open Door
Communication   

Exxon
Mobil Corporation encourages employees to ask questions, voice concerns, and
make appropriate suggestions regarding the business practices of the
Corporation.  Employees are expected to report promptly to management suspected
violations of law, the Corporation's policies, and the Corporation's internal
controls, so that management can take appropriate corrective action.  The
Corporation promptly investigates reports of suspected violations of law,
policies, and internal control procedures.    

Management
is ultimately responsible for the investigation of and appropriate response to
reports of suspected violations of law, policies, and internal control
procedures.  Internal Audit has primary responsibility for investigating
violations of the Corporation's internal controls, with assistance from others,
depending on the subject matter of the inquiry.  The persons who investigate
suspected violations are expected to exercise independent and objective
judgment.  

Normally,
an employee should discuss such matters with the employee's immediate
supervisor.  Each supervisor is expected to be available to subordinates for
that purpose.  If an employee is dissatisfied following review with the
employee's immediate supervisor, that employee is encouraged to request further
reviews, in the presence of the supervisor or otherwise.  Reviews should
continue to the level of management appropriate to resolve the issue.  

Depending
on the subject matter of the question, concern, or suggestion, each employee
has access to alternative channels of communication, for example, the
Controller's Department; Internal Audit; the Human Resources Department; the
Law Department; the Safety, Health and Environment Department; the Security
Department; and the Treasurer's Department.  

Suspected
violations of law or the Corporation's policies involving a director or
executive officer, as well as any concern regarding questionable accounting or
auditing matters, should be referred directly to the General Auditor of the
Corporation.  The Board Affairs Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation will initially review all issues involving directors or executive
officers, and will then refer all such issues to the Board of Directors of the
Corporation.  

Employees
may also address communications to individual nonemployee directors or to the
nonemployee directors as a group by writing them at Exxon Mobil Corporation,
5959 Las Colinas Boulevard, Irving, Texas 75039, U.S.A., or such other
addresses as the Corporation may designate and publish from time to time.  

2    

Employees
wishing to make complaints without identifying themselves may do so by
telephoning 1 800 963 9966 or 1 972 444 1990,
or by writing the Global Security Manager, Exxon Mobil Corporation, P.O. Box
142106, Irving, Texas 75014, U.S.A., or such other telephone numbers and
addresses as the Corporation may designate and publish from time to time.  All
complaints to those telephone numbers and addresses concerning accounting,
internal accounting controls, or auditing matters will be referred to the Audit
Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation.  

All
persons responding to employees' questions, concerns, complaints, and
suggestions are expected to use appropriate discretion regarding anonymity and
confidentiality, although the preservation of anonymity and confidentiality may
or may not be practical, depending on the circumstances.  For example,
investigations of significant complaints typically necessitate revealing to
others information about the complaint and complainant.  Similarly, disclosure
can result from government investigations and litigation.  

No
action may be taken or threatened against any employee for asking questions,
voicing concerns, or making complaints or suggestions in conformity with the
procedures described above, unless the employee acts with willful disregard of
the truth.  

Failure
to behave honestly, and failure to comply with law, the Corporation's policies,
and the Corporation's internal controls may result in disciplinary action, up
to and including separation.  

No
one in the Corporation has the authority to make exceptions or grant waivers to
the Corporation's foundation policies.  It is recognized that there will be
questions about the application of the policies to specific activities and
situations.  In cases of doubt, directors, officers, and employees are expected
to seek clarification and guidance.  In those instances where the Corporation,
after review, approves an activity or situation, the Corporation is not
granting an exception or waiver but is determining that there is no policy
violation.  If the Corporation determines that there is or would be a policy
violation, appropriate action is taken.  

3    

</EX-14>

<EX-21>
 12
 xomexhibit21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

EXHIBIT
21   

   Subsidiaries of the Registrant
(1), (2) and (3)   at December 31, 2013   

Percentage
  of  
    Voting
  Securities  
    Owned
  Directly  
    or
  Indirectly by Registrant  

State or  
    Country
  of Organization  

Abu Dhabi Petroleum Company Limited (5)  

23.75  

United Kingdom  

Aera Energy LLC (5)  

48.2  

California  

AKG Marketing Company Limited   

87.5  

Bahamas  

Al-Jubail Petrochemical Company (4) (5)   

50  

Saudi Arabia  

Ampolex (CEPU) Pte Ltd  

100  

Singapore  

Ancon Insurance Company, Inc.   

100  

Vermont  

Barnett Gathering, LLC   

100  

Texas  

Barzan Gas Company Limited (5)   

7  

Qatar  

BEB Erdgas und Erdoel GmbH   Co. KG (4) (5)  

50   

Germany  

Cameroon Oil Transportation Company S.A. (5)   

41.06  

Cameroon  

Canada Imperial Oil Limited  

69.6  

Canada  

Caspian Pipeline Consortium (5)    

7.5  

Russia/Kazakhstan  

Castle Peak Power Company Limited (5)    

60  

Hong Kong  

Chalmette Refining, LLC (4) (5)    

50  

Delaware  

Cross Timbers Energy, LLC (4) (5)  

50   

Delaware  

Cross Timbers Energy Services, Inc.   

100   

Texas  

Ellora Energy Inc.   

100   

Delaware  

Esso Australia Resources Pty Ltd   

100  

Australia  

Esso Caribbean Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

Esso Deutschland GmbH   

100  

Germany  

Esso Erdgas Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH   

100  

Germany  

Esso Exploration and Production Chad Inc.   

100  

Bahamas  

Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria (Deepwater)
  Limited  

100  

Nigeria  

Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria (Offshore
  East) Limited  

100  

Nigeria  

Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria Limited  

100  

Nigeria  

Esso Exploration and Production UK Limited   

100  

United Kingdom  

Esso Exploration Angola (Block 15) Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

Esso Exploration Angola (Block 17) Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

Esso Italiana S.r.l.   

100   

Italy  

Esso Nederland B.V.   

100  

Netherlands  

Esso Norge AS    

100  

Norway  

Esso Petroleum Company, Limited   

100  

United Kingdom  

Esso Pipeline Investments Limited   

100  

Bahamas  

Esso Raffinage    

82.89  

France  

Esso Societe Anonyme Francaise   

82.89  

France  

Esso (Thailand) Public Company Limited    

65.99  

Thailand  

Esso Trading Company of Abu Dhabi    

100  

Delaware  

Exxon Azerbaijan Limited    

100  

Bahamas  

Exxon Chemical Arabia Inc.   

100  

Delaware  

Exxon Mobile Bay Limited Partnership  

100  

Delaware  

Exxon Neftegas Limited    

100  

Bahamas  

Exxon Overseas Corporation   

100  

Delaware  

Exxon Overseas Investment Corporation   

100  

Delaware  

1  

Percentage
  of  
    Voting
  Securities  
    Owned
  Directly  
    or
  Indirectly by Registrant  

State or  
    Country
  of Organization  

Exxon Ventures Holding, Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Abu Dhabi Offshore Petroleum Company
  Limited   

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Alaska Production Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Asia International Limited Liability
  Company, SARL  

100  

Luxembourg  

ExxonMobil Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.    

100  

Singapore  

ExxonMobil Belgium Finance  

100  

Belgium  

ExxonMobil Business Finance Company   

100  

Nevada  

ExxonMobil Canada Energy    

100  

Canada  

ExxonMobil Canada Ltd.    

100  

Canada  

ExxonMobil Canada Properties    

100  

Canada  

ExxonMobil Canada Resources Compa  ny    

100  

Canada  

ExxonMobil Capital Netherlands B.V.   

100  

Netherlands  

ExxonMobil Central Europe Holding GmbH   

100  

Germany  

ExxonMobil Chemical France     

99.77  

France  

ExxonMobil Chemical Holland B.V.    

100  

Netherlands  

ExxonMobil Chemical Limited    

100  

United Kingdom  

ExxonMobil China Petroleum   Petrochemical Company
  Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil de Colombia S.A.  

99.7   

Colombia  

ExxonMobil Development Company   

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Energy Limited    

100  

Hong Kong  

ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Malaysia Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Norway AS    

100  

Norway  

ExxonMobil Finance Company Limited   

100  

United Kingdom  

ExxonMobil Financial Services B.V.    

100  

Netherlands  

ExxonMobil Gas Marketing Deutschland GmbH   Co.
  KG    

50  

Germany  

ExxonMobil Gas Marketing Europe Limited    

100  

United Kingdom  

ExxonMobil Global Services Company    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Holding Company Holland LLC    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Holding Norway AS    

100  

Norway  

ExxonMobil Hong Kong Limited    

100  

Hong Kong  

ExxonMobil International Finance Company    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil International Holdings Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil International Services   

100  

Luxembourg  

ExxonMobil Iraq Limited   

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Italiana Gas S.r.l.    

100   

Italy  

ExxonMobil Kazakhstan Inc.  

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Kazakhstan Ventures Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Kurdistan Region of Iraq Limited    

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Marine Limited    

100  

United Kingdom  

ExxonMobil Oil Corporation    

100  

New York  

ExxonMobil Petroleum   Chemical   

100  

Belgium  

ExxonMobil Pipeline Company    
    ExxonMobil PNG Limited  

100  
            100  

Delaware  
    Papua New Guinea  

ExxonMobil Producing Netherlands B.V.   

100  

Netherlands  

ExxonMobil Production Deutschland GmbH    

100  

Germany  

ExxonMobil Production Norway Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Qatargas Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Qatargas (II) Limited    

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Qatargas (II) Terminal Company Limited    

100  

Bahamas  

2  

Percentage
  of  
    Voting
  Securities  
    Owned
  Directly  
    or
  Indirectly by Registrant  

State or  
    Country
  of Organization  

ExxonMobil Ras Laffan (III) Limited    

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Rasgas Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Research and Engineering Company  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Sales and Supply LLC    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Southwest Holdings Inc.                 

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Technology Finance Company                 

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Ventures Funding Ltd.                 

100  

Bahamas  

Fujian Refining   Petrochemical Co. Ltd. (5)    

25  

China  

Golden Pass LNG Terminal Investments LLC  

100  

Delaware  

Golden Pass LNG Terminal LLC (5)    

17.6  

Delaware  

Imperial Oil Limited    

69.6  

Canada  

Imperial Oil (an Ontario General Partnership)  

69.6  

Canada  

Imperial Oil Resources (an Alberta limited
  partnership)    

69.6  

Canada  

Imperial Oil Resources Limited    

69.6  

Canada  

Imperial Oil Resources N.W.T. Limited    

69.6  

Canada  

Imperial Oil Resources Ventures Limited  

69.6  

Canada  

Infineum Holdings B.V. (5)    

49.96  

Netherlands  

Infineum USA L.P. (5)   

49.71  

Delaware  

Karmorneftegaz Holding SARL (5)   

33.33  

Luxembourg  

LLC Arctic Research and Design Center For Continental
  Shelf Development (5)  

33.33  

Russia  

Mobil Australia Resources Company Pty Limited   

100  

Australia  

Mobil California Exploration   Producing Asset
  Company   

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Caspian Pipeline Company    

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Cepu Ltd.    

100  

Bermuda  

Mobil Cerro Negro, Ltd.    

100  

Bahamas  

Mobil Corporation    

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Equatorial Guinea Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Erdgas-Erdoel GmbH    

100  

Germany  

Mobil Exploration Indonesia Inc.    

100  

Cayman Islands  

Mobil Oil Australia Pty Ltd   

100  

Australia  

Mobil Oil Exploration   Producing Southeast Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Oil New Zealand Limited   

100  

New Zealand  

Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited    

100  

Nigeria  

Mobil Producing Texas   New Mexico Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Refining Australia Pty. Ltd.    

100  

Australia  

Mobil Services (Bahamas) Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

Mobil Yanbu Petrochemical Company Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Yanbu Refining Company Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

Mountain Gathering, LLC    

100  

Delaware  

Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij B.V. (4) (5)    

50  

Netherlands  

Palmetto Transoceanic LLC   

100  

Delaware  

Papua New Guinea Liquefied Natural Gas Global Company
  LDC (5)   

33.2  

Bahamas  

Phillips Exploration, Inc.    

100  

Pennsylvania  

Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (5)   

10  

Qatar  

Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (2) (5)  

24.15  

Qatar  

Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company
  Limited         (5)   

24.999  

Qatar  

3  

Percentage
  of  
    Voting
  Securities  
    Owned
  Directly  
    or
  Indirectly by Registrant  

State or  
    Country
  of Organization  

Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited
  (II)   (5)    

30.517  

Qatar  

Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited
  (3)    (5)  

30  

Qatar  

Saudi Aramco Mobil Refinery Company Ltd. (4) (5)    

50  

Saudi Arabia  

Saudi Yanbu Petrochemical Co. (4) (5)  

50  

Saudi Arabia  

Societa a responsabilita limitata Raffineria Padana
  Olii Minerali - S.A.R.P.O.M. S.r.l.   

75.51   

Italy  

South Hook LNG Terminal Company Limited (5)  

24.15  

United Kingdom  

Tengizchevroil, LLP (5)  

25  

Kazakhstan  

Terminale GNL Adriatico S.r.l (5)    

70.678   

Italy  

TonenGeneral Sekiyu K.K. (5)  

22.218  

Japan  

Trend Gathering   Treating, LLC  

100  

Texas  

Trizneft Pilot SARL (5)  

49  

Luxembourg  

Tuapsemorneftegaz Holding SARL (5)  

33.33  

Luxembourg  

Wolverine Pipe Line Company   

53.39  

Delaware  

XH, LLC   

100  

Delaware  

XTO Energy Canada  

84.80  

Canada  

XTO Energy Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

______________  

  NOTES:  

(1)  

For the purposes of
  this list, if the registrant owns directly or indirectly approximately 50
  percent of the voting securities of any person and approximately 50 percent
  of the voting securities of such person is owned directly or indirectly by another
  interest, or if the registrant includes its share of net income of any other
  unconsolidated person in consolidated net income, such person is deemed to be
  a subsidiary.  

(2)  

With respect to
  certain companies, shares in names of nominees and qualifying shares in names
  of directors are included in the above percentages.  

(3)

The names of other
  subsidiaries have been omitted from the above list since considered in the
  aggregate, they would not constitute a significant subsidiary under Securities
  and Exchange Commission Regulation S-X, Rule 1-02(w).  

(4)  

The registrant owns
  directly or indirectly approximately 50 percent of the securities of this
  person and approximately 50 percent of the voting securities of this person
  is owned directly or indirectly by another single interest.  

(5)  

The investment in
  this unconsolidated person is represented by the registrant's percentage
  interest in the underlying net assets of such person.  The accounting for
  these unconsolidated persons is referred to as the equity method of
  accounting.  

4  

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 13
 xomexhibit23.htm
 CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

EXHIBIT 23   

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

We hereby
consent to the incorporation by reference in the following   Exxon Mobil Corporation Registration Statements on:   

Form S-3
(No. 333-167787)                   XTO Energy Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan;  

Form S-8 (Nos. 333-101175,                  1993
Incentive Program of Exxon Mobil Corporation;  

                          333-38917,                             

                          33-51107,

333-75659)                             

Form S-8
(Nos. 333-145188,                  2003 Incentive Program of Exxon Mobil
Corporation;  

                          333-110494,  

                          333-183012)  

Form S-8
(Nos. 333-72955                     ExxonMobil Savings Plan;  

                          and
333-166576)  

Form S-8
(No. 333-117980)                   2004 Non-employee Director Restricted Stock
Plan;  

Form S-8 (No. 333-164620)                   Post-effective
amendment no. 1 on Form S-8 to Form S-4  

                                                                          relating
to XTO Energy Inc. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan and  

                                                                          2004
Incentive Plan  

of our
report dated February 26, 2014, relating to the financial statements and the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in
this Form 10-K.  

/s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  

Dallas,
Texas  

  February 26,
2014  

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 14
 xomexhibit311.htm
 CERTIFICATION (PURSUANT TO SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13A-14(A)) BY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

EXHIBIT 31.1   

Certification by Rex W. Tillerson   

   Pursuant to Securities Exchange
Act Rule 13a-    14(a)    

I, Rex W.
Tillerson, certify that:  

1.        
  I have
reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Exxon Mobil Corporation;  

2.        
  Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.        
  Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.        
  The
registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant
and have:  

(a)      
  Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)         Designed such internal control
over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;  

(c)      
  Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)      
  Disclosed in
this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and  

5.        
  The
registrant's other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  

(a)      
  All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and  

(b)      
  Any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: February 26, 2014    

/s/  REX
  W. TILLERSON  

Rex W.
  Tillerson  

Chief
  Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 15
 xomexhibit312.htm
 CERTIFICATION (PURSUANT TO SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13A-14(A)) BY PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

EXHIBIT 31.2   

Certification by Andrew P. Swiger   

   Pursuant to Securities Exchange
Act Rule 13a-    14(a)    

I, Andrew
P. Swiger, certify that:  

1.        
  I have
reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Exxon Mobil Corporation;  

2.        
  Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.        
  Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.        
  The
registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant
and have:  

(a)      
  Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)         Designed such internal control
over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;  

(c)      
  Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)      
  Disclosed in
this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and  

5.        
  The
registrant's other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  

(a)      
  All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and  

(b)      
  Any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.  

Date:
  February 26, 2014    

/s/  ANDREW P. SWIGER  

Andrew P. Swiger   

Senior Vice President  

(Principal Financial Officer)  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-31.3>
 16
 xomexhibit313.htm
 CERTIFICATION (PURSUANT TO SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13A-14(A)) BY PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER

EXHIBIT 31.3   

Certification by Patrick T. Mulva   

   Pursuant to Securities Exchange
Act Rule 13a-    14(a)    

I, Patrick
T. Mulva, certify that:  

1.        
  I have
reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Exxon Mobil Corporation;  

2.        
  Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

3.        
  Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report;   

4.        
  The
registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant
and have:   

(a)      
  Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)         Designed such internal control
over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;  

(c)      
  Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)      
  Disclosed in
this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and   

5.        
  The
registrant's other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  

(a)      
  All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and  

(b)      
  Any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: February 26, 2014   

/s/  PATRICK T. MULVA  

Patrick T. Mulva  

Vice President and Controller  

(Principal Accounting Officer)  

</EX-31.3>

<EX-32.1>
 17
 xomexhibit321.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION (PURSUANT TO SARBANES-OXLEY SECTION 906) BY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

EXHIBIT 32.1   

Certification of
Periodic Financial Report   

   Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350   

For purposes of 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned, Rex
W. Tillerson, the chief executive officer of Exxon Mobil Corporation (the
 Company ), hereby certifies that, to his knowledge:  

(i)           the Annual Report on
Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2013, as filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ) fully
complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and   

(ii)      
  the
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

Date:
  February 26, 2014  

/s/  REX W. TILLERSON  

Rex W. Tillerson  

Chief Executive Officer  

A signed original of this written statement required by Section
906 has been provided to Exxon Mobil Corporation and will be retained by Exxon
Mobil Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or
its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 18
 xomexhibit322.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION (PURSUANT TO SARBANES-OXLEY SECTION 906) BY PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

EXHIBIT 32.2   

Certification of
Periodic Financial Report   

   Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350   

For purposes of 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned,
Andrew P. Swiger, the principal financial officer of Exxon Mobil Corporation
(the  Company ), hereby certifies that, to his knowledge:   

(i)           the Annual Report on
Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2013, as filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ) fully
complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and   

(ii)      
  the
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

Date: February 26, 2014    

/s/  ANDREW P. SWIGER  

Andrew P. Swiger  

Senior Vice President  

(Principal Financial Officer)  

A signed original of this written statement required by Section
906 has been provided to Exxon Mobil Corporation and will be retained by Exxon
Mobil Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or
its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.2>

<EX-32.3>
 19
 xomexhibit323.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION (PURSUANT TO SARBANES-OXLEY SECTION 906) BY PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER

EXHIBIT 32.3   

Certification of
Periodic Financial Report   

   Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350   

For purposes of 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned,
Patrick T. Mulva, the principal accounting officer of Exxon Mobil Corporation
(the  Company ), hereby certifies that, to his knowledge:   

(i)           the Annual Report on
Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2013, as filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ) fully
complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and   

(ii)      
  the
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

Date: February 26, 2014    

/s/  PATRICK T. MULVA  

Patrick T. Mulva  

Vice President and Controller  

(Principal Accounting Officer)  

A signed original of this written statement required by Section
906 has been provided to Exxon Mobil Corporation and will be retained by Exxon
Mobil Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or
its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.3>

<EX-101.INS>
 26
 xom-20131231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 27
 xom-20131231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 28
 xom-20131231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 29
 xom-20131231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 30
 xom-20131231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 31
 xom-20131231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

