<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20150225_10-K_edgar_data_34088_0000034088-15-000013_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>26917781</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>357186</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>5228106</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>8574025</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>6846546</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3394562</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>109</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>20</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000034088-15-000013.hdr.sgml : 20150225
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20150225162623
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000034088-15-000013
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		26
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20141231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20150225
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20150225

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			EXXON MOBIL CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000034088
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PETROLEUM REFINING [2911]
		IRS NUMBER:				135409005
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NJ
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02256
		FILM NUMBER:		15648169

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5959 LAS COLINAS BLVD
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75039-2298
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9724441000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5959 LAS COLINAS BLVD
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75039-2298

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	EXXON CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	STANDARD OIL CO OF NEW JERSEY
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19721123

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000034088-15-000013.txt : 20150225

10-K
 1
 xom10k2014.htm
 FORM 10-K

2014    

UNITED STATES    

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION    

   WASHINGTON,
 D.C. 20549    

FORM 10-K    

            ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF    

   THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934    

  For the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2014   

  or   

            TRANSITION
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF    

   THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934    

  For the transition period from
              
to

Commission File Number 1-2256   

   EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION    

  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

NEW JERSEY   

13-5409005   

(State or other jurisdiction of  
    incorporation or organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer  
    Identification Number)  

5959 LAS COLINAS BOULEVARD, IRVING, TEXAS 75039-2298    

  (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)   

   (972) 444-1000    

  (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)   

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act:   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a
well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes              No         

  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not
required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes            No             

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes  
           No             

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has
submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every
Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405
of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes              No         

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.             

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a
smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer, 
 accelerated filer,  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated
filer                  
   Accelerated filer             

  Non-accelerated filer                    Smaller
reporting company             

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
shell company (as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).    Yes             No             

  The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant on June 30, 2014, the last business day
of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, based on the
closing price on that date of $100.68 on the New York Stock Exchange composite
tape, was in excess of $429 billion.   

   Documents Incorporated by Reference:  Proxy
Statement for the 2015 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (Part III)    

EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION    

   FORM
10-K    

   FOR
THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2014    

   TABLE OF CONTENTS    

PART I   

Item 1.  

Business  

1    

Item 1A.  

Risk Factors  

2    

Item 1B.  

Unresolved Staff Comments  

4    

Item 2.  

Properties  

5    

Item 3.  

Legal Proceedings  

26    

Item 4.  

Mine Safety Disclosures  

26    

Executive Officers of the Registrant [pursuant to
  Instruction 3 to Regulation S-K, Item 401(b)]  

27    

PART II   

Item 5.  

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
  Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

30    

Item 6.  

Selected Financial Data  

30    

Item 7.  

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
  Condition and Results of Operations  

30    

Item 7A.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
  Market Risk  

30    

Item 8.  

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  

31    

Item 9.  

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
  Accounting and Financial Disclosure  

31    

Item 9A.  

Controls and Procedures  

31    

Item 9B.  

Other Information  

31    

PART III   

Item 10.  

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
  Governance  

32     

Item 11.  

Executive Compensation  

32     

Item 12.  

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
  Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

32     

Item 13.  

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and
  Director Independence  

33     

Item 14.  

Principal Accounting Fees and Services  

33     

PART IV   

Item 15.  

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  

33     

Financial Section  

34     

Signatures  

113     

Index to Exhibits  

115     

Exhibit 12   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to
  Fixed Charges  

Exhibits 31 and 32   Certifications  

PART I    

    ITEM 1.       BUSINESS     

   Exxon Mobil Corporation was incorporated in the State of
New Jersey in 1882. Divisions and affiliated companies of ExxonMobil operate or
market products in the United States and most other countries of the world.
Their principal business is energy, involving exploration for, and production
of, crude oil and natural gas, manufacture of petroleum products and
transportation and sale of crude oil, natural gas and petroleum products.
ExxonMobil is a major manufacturer and marketer of commodity petrochemicals, including
olefins, aromatics, polyethylene and polypropylene plastics and a wide variety of
specialty products. Affiliates of ExxonMobil conduct extensive research
programs in support of these businesses.    

   Exxon Mobil Corporation has several
divisions and hundreds of affiliates, many with names that include    ExxonMobil   ,
   Exxon   ,    Esso, Mobil    or    XTO   . For convenience and simplicity,
in this report the terms    ExxonMobil, Exxon, Esso, Mobil    and    XTO   ,
as well as terms like    Corporation   ,    Company   ,    our   ,    we    
and    its   , are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific
affiliates or groups of affiliates. The precise meaning depends on the context
in question.    

   Throughout ExxonMobil s businesses, new
and ongoing measures are taken to prevent and minimize the impact of our
operations on air, water and ground. These include a significant investment in
refining infrastructure and technology to manufacture clean fuels, as well as
projects to monitor and reduce nitrogen oxide, sulfur oxide and greenhouse gas
emissions, and expenditures for asset retirement obligations. Using definitions
and guidelines established by the American Petroleum Institute, ExxonMobil s
2014 worldwide environmental expenditures for all such preventative and
remediation steps, including ExxonMobil s share of equity company expenditures,
were $6.2 billion, of which $3.5 billion were included in expenses
with the remainder in capital expenditures. The total cost for such activities
is expected to remain in this range in 2015 and 2016 (with capital expenditures
approximately 40 percent of the total).    

   The energy and petrochemical industries
are highly competitive. There is competition within the industries and also
with other industries in supplying the energy, fuel and chemical needs of both
industrial and individual consumers. The Corporation competes with other firms
in the sale or purchase of needed goods and services in many national and international
markets and employs all methods of competition which are lawful and appropriate
for such purposes.    

   Operating data and industry segment
information for the Corporation are contained in the Financial Section of this
report under the following:  Quarterly Information ,  Note 18: Disclosures
about Segments and Related Information  and  Operating Summary . Information on
oil and gas reserves is contained in the  Oil and Gas Reserves  part of the
 Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities 
portion of the Financial Section of this report.   

   ExxonMobil has a long standing
commitment to the development of proprietary technology. We have a wide array
of research programs designed to meet the needs identified in each of our
business segments. Information on Company-sponsored research and development
spending is contained in  Note 3: Miscellaneous Financial Information  of
the Financial Section of this report. ExxonMobil held approximately 11 thousand
active patents worldwide at the end of 2014. For technology licensed to third
parties, revenues totaled approximately $148 million in 2014. Although
technology is an important contributor to the overall operations and results of
our Company, the profitability of each business segment is not dependent on any
individual patent, trade secret, trademark, license, franchise or concession.   

   The number of regular employees was 75.3 thousand,
75.0 thousand, and 76.9 thousand at years ended 2014, 2013 and 2012,
respectively. Regular employees are defined as active executive, management,
professional, technical and wage employees who work full time or part time for
the Corporation and are covered by the Corporation s benefit plans and
programs. Regular employees do not include employees of the company-operated retail
sites (CORS). The number of CORS employees was 8.4 thousand, 9.8 thousand,
and 11.1 thousand at years ended 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.    

   Information concerning the source and
availability of raw materials used in the Corporation s business, the extent of
seasonality in the business, the possibility of renegotiation of profits or
termination of contracts at the election of governments and risks attendant to
foreign operations may be found in  Item 1A Risk Factors  and  Item
2 Properties  in this report.    

   ExxonMobil maintains a website at
exxonmobil.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports
filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 are made available through our website as soon as reasonably practical
after we electronically file or furnish the reports to the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Also available on the Corporation s website are the
Company s Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Ethics and Business
Conduct, as well as the charters of the audit, compensation and nominating
committees of the Board of Directors. Information on our website is not
incorporated into this report.   

1       

ITEM 1A.       RISK FACTORS   

  ExxonMobil s financial and operating
results are subject to a variety of risks inherent in the global oil, gas, and
petrochemical businesses. Many of these risk factors are not within the
Company s control and could adversely affect our business, our financial and
operating results or our financial condition. These risk factors include:   

   Supply and Demand    

  The oil, gas, and petrochemical businesses are
fundamentally commodity businesses. This means ExxonMobil s operations and
earnings may be significantly affected by changes in oil, gas and petrochemical
prices and by changes in margins on refined products. Oil, gas, petrochemical
and product prices and margins in turn depend on local, regional and global
events or conditions that affect supply and demand for the relevant commodity.   

   Economic conditions.    The demand for energy and petrochemicals correlates closely with
general economic growth rates. The occurrence of recessions or other periods of
low or negative economic growth will typically have a direct adverse impact on
our results. Other factors that affect general economic conditions in the world
or in a major region, such as changes in population growth rates, periods of
civil unrest, government austerity programs, or currency exchange rate
fluctuations, can also impact the demand for energy and petrochemicals.
Sovereign debt downgrades, defaults, inability to access debt markets due to
credit or legal constraints, liquidity crises, the breakup or restructuring of
fiscal, monetary, or political systems such as the European Union, and other
events or conditions that impair the functioning of financial markets and
institutions also pose risks to ExxonMobil, including risks to the safety of
our financial assets and to the ability of our partners and customers to
fulfill their commitments to ExxonMobil.   

   Other demand-related factors.    Other factors that may affect the demand for oil, gas
and petrochemicals, and therefore impact our results, include technological
improvements in energy efficiency; seasonal weather patterns, which affect the
demand for energy associated with heating and cooling; increased
competitiveness of alternative energy sources that have so far generally not
been competitive with oil and gas without the benefit of government subsidies
or mandates; and changes in technology or consumer preferences that alter fuel
choices, such as toward alternative fueled vehicles.   

   Other supply-related factors.    Commodity prices and margins also vary depending on a
number of factors affecting supply. For example, increased supply from the
development of new oil and gas supply sources and technologies to enhance
recovery from existing sources tend to reduce commodity prices to the extent such
supply increases are not offset by commensurate growth in demand. Similarly,
increases in industry refining or petrochemical manufacturing capacity tend to
reduce margins on the affected products. World oil, gas, and petrochemical
supply levels can also be affected by factors that reduce available supplies,
such as adherence by member countries to OPEC production quotas and the
occurrence of wars, hostile actions, natural disasters, disruptions in
competitors  operations, or unexpected unavailability of distribution channels
that may disrupt supplies. Technological change can also alter the relative
costs for competitors to find, produce, and refine oil and gas and to
manufacture petrochemicals.   

   Other market factors.    ExxonMobil s business results are also exposed to
potential negative impacts due to changes in interest rates, inflation,
currency exchange rates, and other local or regional market conditions. We
generally do not use financial instruments to hedge market exposures.   

   Government and Political Factors    

  ExxonMobil s results can be adversely affected by
political or regulatory developments affecting our operations.   

   Access limitations.    A number of countries limit access to their oil and gas resources, or
may place resources off-limits from development altogether. Restrictions on
foreign investment in the oil and gas sector tend to increase in times of high
commodity prices, when national governments may have less need of outside
sources of private capital. Many countries also restrict the import or export
of certain products based on point of origin.   

   Restrictions on doing business.    ExxonMobil is subject to laws and sanctions imposed
by the U.S. or by other jurisdictions where we do business that may prohibit
ExxonMobil or certain of its affiliates from doing business in certain
countries, or restricting the kind of business that may be conducted. Such
restrictions may provide a competitive advantage to competitors who may not be
subject to comparable restrictions.   

   Lack of legal certainty.    Some countries in which we do business lack
well-developed legal systems, or have not yet adopted clear regulatory
frameworks for oil and gas development. Lack of legal certainty exposes our
operations to increased risk of adverse or unpredictable actions by government
officials, and also makes it more difficult for us to enforce our contracts. In
some cases these risks can be partially offset by agreements to arbitrate
disputes in an international forum, but the adequacy of this remedy may still
depend on the local legal system to enforce an award.   

2       

Regulatory and litigation risks.    Even in countries with well-developed legal
systems where ExxonMobil does business, we remain exposed to changes in law
(including changes that result from international treaties and accords) that
could adversely affect our results, such as:   

increases in taxes or government royalty rates
  (including retroactive claims);  

price controls;  

changes in environmental regulations or other laws
  that increase our cost of compliance or reduce or delay available business
  opportunities (including changes in laws related to offshore drilling
  operations, water use, or hydraulic fracturing);  

adoption of regulations mandating the use of
  alternative fuels or uncompetitive fuel components;  

adoption of government payment transparency
  regulations that could require us to disclose competitively sensitive
  commercial information, or that could cause us to violate the non-disclosure
  laws of other countries; and  

government actions to cancel contracts,
  re-denominate the official currency, renounce or default on obligations,
  renegotiate terms unilaterally, or expropriate assets.  

Legal remedies available to compensate us for
expropriation or other takings may be inadequate.   

  We also may be adversely affected by the outcome of
litigation, especially in countries such as the United States in which very
large and unpredictable punitive damage awards may occur, or by government
enforcement proceedings alleging non-compliance with applicable laws or
regulations.   

   Security concerns.    Successful operation of particular facilities or projects may be
disrupted by civil unrest, acts of sabotage or terrorism, and other local
security concerns. Such concerns may require us to incur greater costs for
security or to shut down operations for a period of time.   

   Climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions.    Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a
number of countries have adopted, or are considering the adoption of,
regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These include
adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, restrictive permitting,
increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable
energy. These requirements could make our products more expensive, lengthen
project implementation times, and reduce demand for hydrocarbons, as well as
shift hydrocarbon demand toward relatively lower-carbon sources such as natural
gas. Current and pending greenhouse gas regulations may also increase our
compliance costs, such as for monitoring or sequestering emissions.   

   Government sponsorship of alternative energy.    Many governments are providing tax advantages and
other subsidies to support alternative energy sources or are mandating the use
of specific fuels or technologies. Governments are also promoting research into
new technologies to reduce the cost and increase the scalability of alternative
energy sources. We are conducting our own research efforts into alternative
energy, such as through sponsorship of the Global Climate and Energy Project at
Stanford University and research into liquid products from algae and biomass
that can be further converted to transportation fuels. Our future results may
depend in part on the success of our research efforts and on our ability to
adapt and apply the strengths of our current business model to providing the energy
products of the future in a cost-competitive manner. See  Management
Effectiveness  below.   

   Management Effectiveness    

  In addition to external economic and political
factors, our future business results also depend on our ability to manage
successfully those factors that are at least in part within our control. The
extent to which we manage these factors will impact our performance relative to
competition. For projects in which we are not the operator, we depend on the
management effectiveness of one or more co-venturers whom we do not control.   

   Exploration and development program.    Our ability to maintain and grow our oil and gas
production depends on the success of our exploration and development efforts.
Among other factors, we must continuously improve our ability to identify the
most promising resource prospects and apply our project management expertise to
bring discovered resources on line on schedule and within budget.   

   Project management.    The success of ExxonMobil s Upstream, Downstream, and Chemical
businesses depends on complex, long-term, capital intensive projects. These
projects in turn require a high degree of project management expertise to
maximize efficiency. Specific factors that can affect the performance of major
projects include our ability to: negotiate successfully with joint venturers,
partners, governments, suppliers, customers, or others; model and optimize
reservoir performance; develop markets for project outputs, whether through long-term
contracts or the development of effective spot markets; manage changes in
operating conditions and costs, including costs of third party equipment or
services such as drilling rigs and shipping; prevent, to the extent possible,
and respond effectively to unforeseen technical difficulties that could delay
project startup or cause unscheduled project downtime; and influence the
performance of project operators where ExxonMobil does not perform that role.   

3       

The term  project  as used
in this report can refer to a variety of different activities and does not
necessarily have the same meaning as in any government payment transparency
reports.   

   Operational efficiency.    An important component of ExxonMobil s competitive
performance, especially given the commodity-based nature of many of our
businesses, is our ability to operate efficiently, including our ability to
manage expenses and improve production yields on an ongoing basis. This
requires continuous management focus, including technology improvements, cost
control, productivity enhancements, regular reappraisal of our asset portfolio,
and the recruitment, development and retention of high caliber employees.   

   Research and development.    To maintain our competitive position, especially in
light of the technological nature of our businesses and the need for continuous
efficiency improvement, ExxonMobil s research and development organizations
must be successful and able to adapt to a changing market and policy
environment.   

   Safety, business controls, and environmental risk
management.    Our results depend on
management s ability to minimize the inherent risks of oil, gas, and
petrochemical operations, to control effectively our business activities and to
minimize the potential for human error. We apply rigorous management systems
and continuous focus to workplace safety and to avoiding spills or other
adverse environmental events. For example, we work to minimize spills through a
combined program of effective operations integrity management, ongoing
upgrades, key equipment replacements, and comprehensive inspection and
surveillance. Similarly, we are implementing cost-effective new technologies
and adopting new operating practices to reduce air emissions, not only in
response to government requirements but also to address community priorities.
We also maintain a disciplined framework of internal controls and apply a
controls management system for monitoring compliance with this framework.
Substantial liabilities and other adverse impacts could result if our management
systems and controls do not function as intended. The ability to insure against
such risks is limited by the capacity of the applicable insurance markets,
which may not be sufficient.   

  Business risks also include the risk of cybersecurity
breaches. If our systems for protecting against cybersecurity risks prove not
to be sufficient, ExxonMobil could be adversely affected such as by having its
business systems compromised, its proprietary information altered, lost or
stolen, or its business operations disrupted.   

   Preparedness.   
Our operations may be disrupted by severe weather events, natural disasters,
human error, and similar events. For example, hurricanes may damage our
offshore production facilities or coastal refining and petrochemical plants in
vulnerable areas. Our ability to mitigate the adverse impacts of these events
depends in part upon the effectiveness of our rigorous disaster preparedness
and response planning, as well as business continuity planning.   

  Projections, estimates and descriptions of
ExxonMobil s plans and objectives included or incorporated in Items 1, 1A, 2, 7
and 7A of this report are forward-looking statements. Actual future results,
including project completion dates, production rates, capital expenditures,
costs and business plans could differ materially due to, among other things,
the factors discussed above and elsewhere in this report.   

ITEM 1B.  UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS    

   None.    

4       

Item 2.       Properties    

    Information with regard to oil and gas
producing activities follows:     

1. Disclosure of Reserves     

    A. Summary of Oil and Gas Reserves at
Year-End 2014     

   The table below summarizes the oil-equivalent proved
reserves in each geographic area and by product type for consolidated
subsidiaries and equity companies. The Corporation has reported proved reserves
on the basis of the average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month
during the last 12-month period. Gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at
six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels. No major discovery or other
favorable or adverse event has occurred since December 31, 2014, that would
cause a significant change in the estimated proved reserves as of that date.    

(1)   South America includes proved
developed reserves of 0.2 million barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids
and 39 billion cubic feet of natural gas and proved undeveloped reserves of 7 billion
cubic feet of natural gas.     

5       

In the preceding reserves information, consolidated subsidiary and
equity company reserves are reported separately. However, the Corporation
operates its business with the same view of equity company reserves as it has
for reserves from consolidated subsidiaries.    

   The Corporation s overall volume capacity
outlook, based on projects coming on stream as anticipated, is for production
capacity to grow over the coming years. However, actual volumes will vary from
year to year due to the timing of individual project start-ups, operational
outages, reservoir performance, regulatory changes, the impact of fiscal and
commercial terms, asset sales, weather events, price effects on production sharing
contracts and other factors as described in Item 1A Risk Factors of this
report.    

   The estimation of proved reserves, which
is based on the requirement of reasonable certainty, is an ongoing process
based on rigorous technical evaluations, commercial and market assessments and
detailed analysis of well and reservoir information such as flow rates and
reservoir pressure declines. Furthermore, the Corporation only records proved
reserves for projects which have received significant funding commitments by
management made toward the development of the reserves. Although the
Corporation is reasonably certain that proved reserves will be produced, the
timing and amount recovered can be affected by a number of factors including
completion of development projects, reservoir performance, regulatory approvals
and significant changes in projections of long-term oil and gas price levels.    

    B. Technologies Used in
Establishing Proved Reserves Additions in 2014     

   Additions to ExxonMobil s proved reserves in 2014 were
based on estimates generated through the integration of available and appropriate
geological, engineering and production data, utilizing well-established
technologies that have been demonstrated in the field to yield repeatable and
consistent results.    

   Data used in these integrated assessments
included information obtained directly from the subsurface via wellbores, such
as well logs, reservoir core samples, fluid samples, static and dynamic
pressure information, production test data, and surveillance and performance
information. The data utilized also included subsurface information obtained
through indirect measurements including high-quality 3-D and 4-D seismic data,
calibrated with available well control information. The tools used to interpret
the data included proprietary seismic processing software, proprietary
reservoir modeling and simulation software, and commercially available data
analysis packages.    

   In some circumstances, where appropriate
analog reservoirs were available, reservoir parameters from these analogs were
used to increase the quality of and confidence in the reserves estimates.    

    C. Qualifications of
Reserves Technical Oversight Group and Internal Controls over Proved Reserves     

   ExxonMobil has a dedicated Global Reserves group that
provides technical oversight and is separate from the operating organization.
Primary responsibilities of this group include oversight of the reserves
estimation process for compliance with Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
rules and regulations, review of annual changes in reserves estimates, and the
reporting of ExxonMobil s proved reserves. This group also maintains the
official company reserves estimates for ExxonMobil s proved reserves of crude
and natural gas liquids, bitumen, synthetic oil and natural gas. In addition,
the group provides training to personnel involved in the reserves estimation
and reporting process within ExxonMobil and its affiliates. The Manager of the
Global Reserves group has more than 30 years of experience in reservoir
engineering and reserves assessment and has a degree in Engineering. He is an
active member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) and previously served
on the SPE Oil and Gas Reserves Committee. The group is managed by and staffed
with individuals that have an average of more than 20 years of technical
experience in the petroleum industry, including expertise in the classification
and categorization of reserves under the SEC guidelines. This group includes
individuals who hold advanced degrees in either Engineering or Geology. Several
members of the group hold professional registrations in their field of expertise,
and members have served on the SPE Oil and Gas Reserves Committee.    

   The Global Reserves group maintains a
central database containing the official company reserves estimates.
Appropriate controls, including limitations on database access and update
capabilities, are in place to ensure data integrity within this central
database. An annual review of the system s controls is performed by internal
audit. Key components of the reserves estimation process include technical
evaluations and analysis of well and field performance and a rigorous peer
review. No changes may be made to the reserves estimates in the central
database, including additions of any new initial reserves estimates or
subsequent revisions, unless these changes have been thoroughly reviewed and
evaluated by duly authorized personnel within the operating organization. In
addition, changes to reserves estimates that exceed certain thresholds require
further review and approval of the appropriate level of management within the
operating organization before the changes may be made in the central database.
Endorsement by the Global Reserves group for all proved reserves changes is a
mandatory component of this review process. After all changes are made, reviews
are held with senior management for final endorsement.    

6       

2. Proved Undeveloped Reserves     

   At year-end 2014, approximately 8.8 billion oil-equivalent
barrels (GOEB) of ExxonMobil s proved reserves were classified as proved
undeveloped. This represents 35 percent of the 25.3 GOEB reported in proved
reserves. This compares to the 8.5 GOEB of proved undeveloped reserves reported
at the end of 2013. During the year, ExxonMobil conducted development
activities in over 100 fields that resulted in the transfer of approximately
0.8 GOEB from proved undeveloped to proved developed reserves by year-end. The
largest transfers were related to Papua New Guinea (PNG) LNG start-up and
drilling activity in the United States.    

   One of ExxonMobil s requirements for
reporting proved reserves is that management has made significant funding
commitments toward the development of the reserves. ExxonMobil has a
disciplined investment strategy and many major fields require long lead-time in
order to be developed. Development projects typically take two to four years
from the time of recording  proved undeveloped reserves to the start of
production. However, the development time for large and complex projects can
exceed five years. During 2014, discoveries and extensions related to new
projects added approximately 0.6 GOEB of proved undeveloped reserves. The
largest of these additions were related to planned drilling in the United
States and project funding in Angola, Russia and Kazakhstan. Overall,
investments of $24.2 billion were made by the Corporation during 2014 to
progress the development of reported proved undeveloped reserves, including $22.4
billion for oil and gas producing activities and an additional $1.8 billion for
other non-oil and gas producing activities such as the construction of support
infrastructure and other related facilities. These investments represented 74
percent of the $32.7 billion in total reported Upstream capital and exploration
expenditures.    

   Proved undeveloped reserves in Australia,
the United States, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, and the Netherlands have remained
undeveloped for five years or more primarily due to constraints on the capacity
of infrastructure, the pace of co-venturer/government funding, as well as the time
required to complete development for very large projects. The Corporation is
reasonably certain that these proved reserves will be produced; however, the
timing and amount recovered can be affected by a number of factors including
completion of development projects, reservoir performance, regulatory
approvals, and significant changes in long-term oil and gas price levels. Of
the proved undeveloped reserves that have been reported for five or more years,
84 percent are contained in the aforementioned countries. The largest of these
is related to LNG/Gas projects in Australia, where construction of the Gorgon
LNG project is under way. In Kazakhstan, the proved undeveloped reserves are
related to the remainder of the initial development of the offshore Kashagan
field which is included in the North Caspian Production Sharing Agreement and
the Tengizchevroil joint venture which includes a production license in the
Tengiz   Korolev field complex. The Tengizchevroil joint venture is producing,
and proved undeveloped reserves will continue to move to proved developed as
approved development phases progress. In the Netherlands, the Groningen gas
field has proved undeveloped reserves reported that are related to installation
of future stages of compression. These reserves will move to proved developed
when the additional stages of compression are installed to maintain field
delivery pressure.   

7       

3. Oil and Gas Production, Production
Prices and Production Costs     

    A. Oil and Gas Production     

   The table below summarizes production by
final product sold and by geographic area for the last three years.    

(1)   South America includes liquids
production for 2012 of one thousand barrels daily and natural gas production
available for sale for 2014, 2013 and 2012 of 21 million, 28 million,
and 38 million cubic feet daily, respectively.     

8       

B. Production Prices and Production Costs     

   The table below summarizes average
production prices and average production costs by geographic area and by
product type for the last three years.    

9       

Average production prices have been calculated by using
sales quantities from the Corporation s own production as the divisor. Average
production costs have been computed by using net production quantities for the
divisor. The volumes of crude oil and natural gas liquids (NGL) production used
for this computation are shown in the oil and gas production table in section
3.A. The volumes of natural gas used in the calculation are the production
volumes of natural gas available for sale and are also shown in section 3.A.
The natural gas available for sale volumes are different from those shown in
the reserves table in the  Oil and Gas Reserves  part of the  Supplemental
Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities  portion of
the Financial Section of this report due to volumes consumed or flared. Gas is
converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet per one thousand
barrels.    

10       

4. Drilling and Other Exploratory and
Development Activities     

    A. Number of Net Productive and Dry Wells
Drilled     

11       

12       

B. Exploratory and Development Activities Regarding Oil and Gas
Resources Extracted by Mining Technologies     

    Syncrude Operations.      Syncrude is a joint venture established to
recover shallow deposits of oil sands using open-pit mining methods to extract
the crude bitumen, and then upgrade it to produce a high-quality, light (32
degrees API), sweet, synthetic crude oil. Imperial Oil Limited is the owner of
a 25 percent interest in the joint venture. Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6
percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited. In 2014, the company s share of net
production of synthetic crude oil was about 60 thousand barrels per day and
share of net acreage was about 63 thousand acres in the Athabasca oil
sands deposit.    

    Kearl Project.      The Kearl project is a joint venture
established to recover shallow deposits of oil sands using open-pit mining
methods to extract the crude bitumen. Imperial Oil Limited holds a 70.96
percent interest in the joint venture and ExxonMobil Canada Properties holds
the other 29.04 percent. Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6 percent interest in
Imperial Oil Limited and a 100 percent interest in ExxonMobil Canada
Properties. Kearl is comprised of six oil sands leases covering about 48
thousand acres in the Athabasca oil sands deposit.    

   The Kearl project is located approximately
40 miles north of Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada. Bitumen is extracted from oil
sands produced from open-pit mining operations, and processed through a bitumen
extraction and froth treatment train. The product, a blend of bitumen and
diluent, is shipped to our refineries and to other third parties. Diluent is
natural gas condensate or other light hydrocarbons added to the crude bitumen
to facilitate transportation by pipeline. During 2014, average net production
at Kearl was 66 thousand barrels per day. The Kearl Expansion project was
essentially complete at the end of 2014, and the commissioning of facilities
commenced in preparation for start-up.    

5. Present
Activities     

    A. Wells Drilling     

B. Review of Principal
Ongoing Activities     

     UNITED STATES      

   ExxonMobil s year-end 2014 acreage holdings totaled 14.6 million
net acres, of     which 1.7
million   net acres were offshore. ExxonMobil was
active in areas onshore and offshore in the lower 48 states and in Alaska    .    

   During the year, 1,048.3 net exploration and development
wells were completed in the inland lower 48 states. Development activities
focused on liquids-rich opportunities in the onshore U.S., primarily in the
Permian Basin of West Texas and New Mexico, the Bakken oil play in North Dakota
and Montana, and the Woodford and Caney Shales in the Ardmore and Marietta
basins of Oklahoma. In addition, gas development activities continued in the Marcellus
Shale of Pennsylvania and West Virginia, the Utica Shale of Ohio, the Haynesville
Shale of Texas and Louisiana, the Barnett Shale of North Texas, and the
Fayetteville Shale of Arkansas.    

   ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Gulf of Mexico
at year-end 2014 was 1.5 million acres. A     total of 2.6     net exploration and development wells were completed during
the year. Development activities were completed on the deepwater Hadrian South
project and the non-operated Lucius project. ExxonMobil continued development
activities on the     Heidelberg
and Julia Phase 1 projects. Offshore California 5.0 net development wells were
completed.         

13       

Participation
in Alaska production and development continued with a total of 18.3 net
development wells completed. Development activities continued on the Point
Thomson project    .    

     CANADA / SOUTH AMERICA             

    Canada     

    Oil and Gas Operations:           ExxonMobil s
year-end 2014 acreage holdings totaled 5.4 million net acres, of which 1.0
million net acres were offshore. A total of 89.2 net development wells were completed
during the year.         

    In Situ Bitumen Operations:             ExxonMobil s year-end 2014 in situ bitumen acreage holdings
totaled 0.7 million net onshore acres. A total of 90.0 net development wells
were completed during the year    .   

    Argentina     

   ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 0.9 million onshore acres
at year-end 2014, and there were 4.6 net exploration and development wells
completed during the year    .    

     EUROPE      

    Germany     

   A total of 4.9 million net onshore acres were held by
ExxonMobil at year-end 2014, with 2.6 net exploration and development wells
completed during the year    .    

    Netherlands     

   ExxonMobil s net interest in licenses totaled approximately
1.5 million acres at year-end 2014, of which 1.2 million acres were onshore. A
total of 5.1 net exploration and development wells were completed during the
year    .    

    Norway     

   ExxonMobil s net interest in licenses at year-end 2014
totaled approximately 0.4 million acres, all offshore. A total of 4.9 net
exploration and development wells were completed in 2014    .    

    United Kingdom     

   ExxonMobil s net interest in licenses at
year-end 2014 totaled approximately 0.6 million acres, all offshore. A total of
2.1 net development wells were completed during the year.         

     AFRICA      

    Angola     

   ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 0.4 million offshore acres
at year-end 2014, with 6.7 net exploration and development wells completed
during the year. On Block 15, development activities continued at Kizomba
Satellites Phase 2. The Kaombo project on Block 32 was funded in 2014. The
Cravo-Lirio-Orquidea-Violeta project, on the non-operated Block 17, started up
in 2014.         

    Chad     

   ExxonMobil s net year-end 2014 acreage holdings
consisted of 46 thousand onshore acres, with 30.0 net development wells
completed during the year    .    

    Equatorial Guinea     

   ExxonMobil s acreage totaled 0.1 million net offshore acres
at year-end 2014    , with 1.5
net development wells completed during the year.    

    Nigeria     

   ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 0.8 million offshore acres
at year-end 2014, with 3.6 net exploration and development wells completed
during the year. In 2014, ExxonMobil continued development drilling on the
deepwater Usan and Erha North Phase 2 projects. Satellite Field Development
Phase 1 development drilling was completed, and t    he Bonga Northwest deepwater project started up in 2014.   

14       

ASIA

Azerbaijan     

   At year-end 2014, ExxonMobil s net acreage
totaled 9 thousand offshore acres. A total of 0.9 net development wells were
completed during the year. The Chirag Oil project was completed, and the sixth
producing platform, West Chirag, started up in 2014    .    

    Indonesia     

   At year-end 2014, ExxonMobil
had 1.7 million net acres, 1.3 million net acres offshore and 0.4 million net
acres onshore, with 7.7 net development wells completed during the year.         

    Iraq     

   At year-end 2014, ExxonMobil s onshore
acreage was 0.7 million net acres. A total of 3.0 net development wells
were completed at the West Qurna Phase I oil field during the year. Field
rehabilitation activities continued during 2014 and     across
the life of this project will include drilling of new wells, working over of
existing wells, and optimization and debottlenecking of existing facilities.     In the Kurdistan Region of Iraq,
ExxonMobil continued its seismic program and exploration drilling until
operations were temporarily suspended due to security concerns in the region.         

    Kazakhstan     

   ExxonMobil s net acreage   totaled
0.1 million acres onshore and 0.2 million acres offshore at year-end 2014. A
total of 1.2 net development wells were completed during 2014. Following a
brief production period in 2013, Kashagan operations were suspended due to a
leak in the onshore section of the gas pipeline. Working with our partners,
activities are under way to replace both the oil and gas pipelines.         

    Malaysia     

   ExxonMobil has interests in production sharing contracts
covering 0.2 million net acres offshore at year-end 2014. During the year, a
total of 4.5 net development wells were completed. The Tapis Enhanced Oil
Recovery and Damar projects started up in 2014.         

    Qatar     

   Through our joint ventures with Qatar Petroleum,
ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 65 thousand acres offshore at year-end 2014.
During the year, a total of 0.3 net development wells were completed.
ExxonMobil participated in 61.8 million tonnes per year gross liquefied natural
gas capacity and 2.0 billion cubic feet per day of flowing gas capacity at year
end. Development activities continued on the Barzan project    .    

    Republic of Yemen     

   ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Republic of Yemen
production sharing areas totaled 10 thousand acres onshore at year-end 2014.    

Russia     

   ExxonMobil s net acreage holdings in Sakhalin at year-end
2014 were 85 thousand acres, all offshore. A total of 1.2 net development wells
were completed. Development activities continued on the Arkutun-Dagi project,
and the Odoptu Stage 2 project was funded in 2014.   

            At
year-end 2014, ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Rosneft joint venture agreements
for the Kara, Laptev, Chukchi and Black Seas was 63.6 million acres, all
offshore. ExxonMobil and Rosneft formed a joint venture to evaluate the
development of tight-oil reserves in western Siberia in 2013. Refer to the
relevant portion of  Note 7: Equity Company Information  of the Financial
Section of this report for additional information on the Corporation s
participation in Rosneft joint venture activities.    

Thailand     

   ExxonMobil s net onshore acreage in Thailand concessions
totaled 21 thousand acres at year-end 2014    .    

15       

United Arab Emirates     

   ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Abu Dhabi offshore Upper
Zakum oil concession was 81 thousand acres at year-end 2014. During the year, a
total of 1.7 net development wells were completed. Development activities
continued on the     Upper Zakum
750 project.    

   ExxonMobil s onshore oil concession
expired in January 2014    .    

     AUSTRALIA / OCEANIA

Australia     

   ExxonMobil s year-end 2014 acreage holdings totaled 1.7
million net acres, of which 1.6 million net acres were offshore. During the
year, a total of 3.8 net exploration and development wells were completed.
Construction activities continued on the Gas Conditioning Plant at Longford.   

   Project construction activity for the
co-venturer operated Gorgon liquefied natural gas (LNG) project progressed in
2014. The project consists of a subsea infrastructure for offshore production
and transportation of the gas, a 15.6 million tonnes per year LNG facility and
a 280 million cubic feet per day domestic gas plant located on Barrow Island,
Western Australia.    

    Papua New Guinea     

   A     total of 1.1 million net onshore acres were held by ExxonMobil at
year-end 2014, with 1.6 net development wells completed during the year. The
Papua New Guinea (PNG) LNG project started up in 2014. The PNG LNG integrated
development includes gas production and processing facilities in the southern
PNG Highlands, a 6.9 million tonnes per year     LNG
facility near Port Moresby and approximately 434 miles of onshore and offshore
pipelines    .    

     WORLDWIDE EXPLORATION      

   At year-end 2014, exploration activities were under way in
several areas in which ExxonMobil has no established production operations and
thus are not included above. A total of 33.4 million net acres were held at
year-end 2014 and 3.8     net exploration wells were
completed during the year in these countries    .    

6. Delivery Commitments     

   ExxonMobil sells crude oil and natural gas
from its producing operations under a variety of contractual obligations, some
of which may specify the delivery of a fixed and determinable quantity for
periods longer than one year. ExxonMobil also enters into natural gas sales
contracts where the source of the natural gas used to fulfill the contract can
be a combination of our own production and the spot market. Worldwide, we are
contractually committed to deliver approximately 18 million barrels of oil and
2,800 billion cubic feet of natural gas for the period from 2015 through 2017.
We expect to fulfill the majority of these delivery commitments with production
from our proved developed reserves. Any remaining commitments will be fulfilled
with production from our proved undeveloped reserves and spot market purchases
as necessary.   

16       

7. Oil and Gas Properties, Wells,
Operations and Acreage     

    A. Gross and Net Productive Wells     

There were 35,446 gross and 29,870 net operated wells at
year-end 2014 and 37,661 gross and 31,823 net operated wells at year-end 2013.
The number of wells with multiple completions was 1,219 gross in 2014 and 1,531
gross in 2013.    

   .   

17       

B. Gross and Net Developed Acreage           

(1)   Includes developed acreage in South
America of 213 gross and 109 net thousands of acres for 2014 and 214 gross and
109 net thousands of acres for 2013.     

   Separate acreage data for oil and gas are not maintained
because, in many instances, both are produced from the same acreage.    

C. Gross and Net Undeveloped Acreage    

(1)   Includes undeveloped acreage in
South America of 9,056 gross and 8,083 net thousands of acres for 2014 and 8,795
gross and 4,674 net thousands of acres for 2013.     

Note:  Year-end 2013 gross developed and
undeveloped acreage in Canada/South America was restated.    

ExxonMobil s investment in developed and undeveloped
acreage is comprised of numerous concessions, blocks and leases. The terms and
conditions under which the Corporation maintains exploration and/or production
rights to the acreage are property-specific, contractually defined and vary
significantly from property to property. Work programs are designed to ensure
that the exploration potential of any property is fully evaluated before
expiration. In some instances, the Corporation may elect to relinquish acreage
in advance of the contractual expiration date if the evaluation process is
complete and there is not a business basis for extension. In cases where
additional time may be required to fully evaluate acreage, the Corporation has
generally been successful in obtaining extensions. The scheduled expiration of
leases and concessions for undeveloped acreage over the next three years is not
expected to have a material adverse impact on the Corporation.    

18       

D. Summary of Acreage Terms     

     UNITED STATES      

   Oil and gas leases have an exploration period ranging from
one to ten years, and a production period that normally remains in effect until
production ceases. Under certain circumstances, a lease may be held beyond its
exploration term even if production has not commenced. In some instances, a
 fee interest  is acquired where both the surface and the underlying mineral
interests are owned outright.    

     CANADA / SOUTH
AMERICA      

    Canada     

   Exploration licenses or leases in onshore areas are
acquired for varying periods of time with renewals or extensions possible.
These licenses or leases entitle the holder to continue existing licenses or
leases upon completing specified work. In general, these license and lease agreements
are held as long as there is production on the licenses and leases. Exploration
licenses in offshore eastern Canada and the Beaufort Sea are held by work
commitments of various amounts and rentals. They are valid for a maximum term
of nine years. Production licenses in the offshore are valid for 25 years, with
rights of extension for continued production. Significant discovery licenses in
the offshore, relating to currently undeveloped discoveries, do not have a
definite term.    

    Argentina     

   The Federal Hydrocarbon Law was amended in December 2014.
The onshore concession terms granted prior to the amendment are up to six
years, divided into three potential exploration periods, with an optional
extension for up to one year depending on the classification of the area.
Pursuant to the amended law, the production term for a conventional production
concession would be 25 years, and 35 years for an unconventional concession,
with unlimited ten-year extensions possible, once a field has been developed.    

     EUROPE      

    Germany     

   Exploration concessions are granted for an initial maximum
period of five years, with an unlimited number of extensions of up to three
years each. Extensions are subject to specific, minimum work commitments.
Production licenses are normally granted for 20 to 25 years with multiple
possible extensions as long as there is production on the license.    

    Netherlands     

   Under the Mining Law, effective January 1, 2003,
exploration and production licenses for both onshore and offshore areas are
issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license. The term is based on
the period of time necessary to perform the activities for which the license is
issued. License conditions are stipulated in the license and are based on the
Mining Law.    

   Production rights granted prior to January
1, 2003, remain subject to their existing terms, and differ slightly for
onshore and offshore areas. Onshore production licenses issued prior to 1988
were indefinite; from 1988 they were issued for a period as explicitly defined
in the license, ranging from 35 to 45 years. Offshore production licenses
issued before 1976 were issued for a fixed period of 40 years; from 1976 they
were again issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license, ranging
from 15 to 40 years.    

    Norway     

   Licenses issued prior to 1972 were for an initial period of
six years and an extension period of 40 years, with relinquishment of at least
one-fourth of the original area required at the end of the sixth year and
another one-fourth at the end of the ninth year. Licenses issued between 1972
and 1997 were for an initial period of up to six years (with extension of the
initial period of one year at a time up to ten years after 1985), and an
extension period of up to 30 years, with relinquishment of at least one-half of
the original area required at the end of the initial period. Licenses issued
after July 1, 1997, have an initial period of up to ten years and a normal
extension period of up to 30 years or in special cases of up to 50 years, and
with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the
end of the initial period.   

19       

United
Kingdom     

   Acreage terms are fixed by the government and are
periodically changed. For example, many of the early licenses issued under the
first four licensing rounds provided for an initial term of six years with
relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area at the end of the
initial term, subject to extension for a further 40 years. At the end of any
such 40-year term, licenses may continue in producing areas until cessation of
production; or licenses may continue in development areas for periods agreed on
a case-by-case basis until they become producing areas; or licenses terminate
in all other areas. The licensing regime was last updated in 2002, and the
majority of licenses issued have an initial term of four years with a second
term extension of four years and a final term of 18 years with a mandatory
relinquishment of 50 percent of the acreage after the initial term and of all
acreage that is not covered by a development plan at the end of the second term.

AFRICA      

    Angola     

   Exploration and production activities are governed by
production sharing agreements with an initial exploration term of four years
and an optional second phase of two to three years. The production period is
for 25 years, and agreements generally provide for a negotiated extension.    

    Chad     

   Exploration permits are issued for a period of five years,
and are renewable for one or two further five-year periods. The terms and
conditions of the permits, including relinquishment obligations, are specified
in a negotiated convention. The production term is for 30 years and may be
extended at the discretion of the government.    

    Equatorial Guinea     

   Exploration and production activities are governed by
production sharing contracts negotiated with the State Ministry of Mines,
Industry and Energy. The exploration periods are for 10 to 15 years with
limited relinquishments in the absence of commercial discoveries. The
production period for crude oil is 30 years, while the production period for
gas is 50 years. Under the Hydrocarbons Law enacted in 2006, the exploration
terms for new production sharing contracts are four to five years with a
maximum of two one-year extensions, unless the Ministry agrees otherwise.    

    Nigeria     

   Exploration and production activities in the deepwater
offshore areas are typically governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs)
with the national oil company, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC).
NNPC holds the underlying Oil Prospecting License (OPL) and any resulting Oil
Mining Lease (OML). The terms of the PSCs are generally 30 years, including a
ten-year exploration period (an initial exploration phase that can be divided
into multiple optional periods) covered by an OPL. Upon commercial discovery,
an OPL may be converted to an OML. Partial relinquishment is required under the
PSC at the end of the ten-year exploration period, and OMLs have a 20-year
production period that may be extended.    

   Some exploration activities are carried
out in deepwater by joint ventures with local companies holding interests in an
OPL. OPLs in deepwater offshore areas are valid for ten years, while in all
other areas the licenses are for five years. Demonstrating a commercial
discovery is the basis for conversion of an OPL to an OML.    

   OMLs granted prior to the 1969 Petroleum
Act (i.e., under the Mineral Oils Act 1914, repealed by the 1969 Petroleum Act)
were for 30 years onshore and 40 years in offshore areas and have been renewed,
effective December 1, 2008, for a further period of 20 years, with a further
renewal option of 20 years. Operations under these pre-1969 OMLs are conducted
under a joint venture agreement with NNPC rather than a PSC. Commercial terms
applicable to the existing joint venture oil production are defined by the
Petroleum Profits Tax Act.    

   OMLs granted under the 1969 Petroleum Act,
which include all deepwater OMLs, have a maximum term of 20 years without
distinction for onshore or offshore location and are renewable, upon 12 months 
written notice, for another period of 20 years. OMLs not held by NNPC are also
subject to a mandatory 50-percent relinquishment after the first ten years of
their duration.    

20       

ASIA

Azerbaijan     

   The production sharing agreement (PSA) for the development
of the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli field is established for an initial period of 30
years starting from the PSA execution date in 1994.    

   Other exploration and production
activities are governed by PSAs negotiated with the national oil company of
Azerbaijan. The exploration period consists of three or four years with the
possibility of a one to three-year extension. The production period, which
includes development, is for 25 years or 35 years with the possibility of one
or two five-year extensions.    

    Indonesia     

   Exploration and production activities in Indonesia are
generally governed by cooperation contracts, usually in the form of a
production sharing contract (PSC), negotiated with BPMIGAS, a government agency
established in 2002 to manage upstream oil and gas activities. In 2012,
Indonesia s Constitutional Court ruled certain articles of law relating to
BPMIGAS to be unconstitutional, but stated that all existing PSCs signed with
BPMIGAS should remain in force until their expiry, and the functions and duties
previously performed by BPMIGAS are to be carried out by the relevant Ministry
of the Government of Indonesia until the promulgation of a new oil and gas law.
By presidential decree, SKKMIGAS became the interim successor to BPMIGAS. The
current PSCs have an exploration period of six years, which can be extended up
to 10 years, and an exploitation period of 20 years. PSCs generally require the
contractor to relinquish 10 percent to 20 percent of the contract area after
three years and generally allow the contractor to retain no more than 50
percent to 80 percent of the original contract area after six years, depending
on the acreage and terms.    

    Iraq     

   Development and production activities in the state-owned
oil and gas fields are governed by contracts with regional oil companies of the
Iraqi Ministry of Oil. An ExxonMobil affiliate entered into a contract with
South Oil Company of the Iraqi Ministry of Oil for the rights to participate in
the development and production activities of the West Qurna Phase I oil
and gas field effective March 1, 2010. The term of the contract is 20 years
with the right to extend for five years. The contract provides for cost
recovery plus per-barrel fees for incremental production above specified levels.

Exploration and production activities in
the Kurdistan Region of Iraq are governed by production sharing contracts
negotiated with the regional government of Kurdistan in 2011. The exploration
term is for five years with the possibility of two-year extensions. The
production period is 20 years with the right to extend for five years.    

    Kazakhstan     

   Onshore exploration and production activities are governed
by the production license, exploration license and joint venture agreements
negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. Existing production operations have
a 40-year production period that commenced in 1993.    

   Offshore exploration and production
activities are governed by a production sharing agreement negotiated with the
Republic of Kazakhstan. The exploration period is six years followed by
separate appraisal periods for each discovery. The production period for each
discovery, which includes development, is for 20 years from the date of declaration
of commerciality with the possibility of two ten-year extensions.    

    Malaysia     

   Production activities are governed by production sharing
contracts (PSCs) negotiated with the national oil company. The PSCs have terms
ranging up to 29 years. All extensions are subject to the national oil
company s prior written approval. The total production period is 15 to 29
years, depending on the date of the execution of the contract and the date of
first commercial lifting.    

    Qatar     

   The State of Qatar grants gas production development
project rights to develop and supply gas from the offshore North Field to
permit the economic development and production of gas reserves sufficient to
satisfy the gas and LNG sales obligations of these projects.    

    Republic of Yemen     

   The Jannah production sharing agreement has a development
period extending 20 years from first commercial declaration, which was made in
June 1995.    

21       

Russia

Terms for ExxonMobil s Sakhalin acreage are fixed by the
production sharing agreement (PSA) that became effective in 1996 between the
Russian government and the Sakhalin-1 consortium, of which ExxonMobil is the
operator. The term of the PSA is 20 years from the Declaration of Commerciality,
which would be 2021. The term may be extended thereafter in ten-year increments
as specified in the PSA.   

   Exploration and production activities in
the Kara, Laptev, Chukchi and Black Seas are governed by joint venture
agreements concluded with Rosneft in 2013 and 2014 that cover certain of
Rosneft s offshore licenses. The Kara Sea licenses covered by the joint venture
agreements concluded in 2013 extend through 2040 and include an exploration
period through 2020. Additional licenses in the Kara, Laptev and Chukchi Seas
covered by the joint venture agreements concluded in 2014 extend through 2043
and include an exploration period through 2023. The Kara, Laptev and Chukchi
Sea licenses require development plan submission within eight years of a
discovery and development activities within five years of plan approval. The
Black Sea exploration license extends through 2017 and a discovery is the basis
for obtaining a license for production. Refer to the relevant portion of  Note
7: Equity Company Information  of the Financial Section of this report for
additional information on the Corporation s participation in Rosneft joint
venture activities.    

    Thailand     

   The Petroleum Act of 1971 allows production under
ExxonMobil s concession for 30 years with a ten-year extension at terms
generally prevalent at the time.    

    United Arab Emirates     

   Exploration and production activities for the major onshore
oil fields in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi were governed by a 75-year oil
concession agreement executed in 1939, which expired in January 2014. An
interest in the development and production activities of the Upper Zakum field,
a major offshore field, was acquired effective as of January 2006, for a term
expiring March 2026, and in 2013 the governing agreements were extended to
2041.    

     AUSTRALIA/OCEANIA      

    Australia     

   Exploration and production activities conducted offshore in
Commonwealth waters are governed by Federal legislation. Exploration permits
are granted for an initial term of six years with two possible five-year
renewal periods. Retention leases may be granted for resources that are not
commercially viable at the time of application, but are expected to become
commercially viable within 15 years. These are granted for periods of five
years and renewals may be requested. Prior to July 1998, production licenses
were granted initially for 21 years, with a further renewal of 21 years and
thereafter  indefinitely , i.e., for the life of the field. Effective from July
1998, new production licenses are granted  indefinitely . In each case, a
production license may be terminated if no production operations have been
carried on for five years.    

    Papua New Guinea     

   Exploration and production activities are governed by the
Oil and Gas Act. Petroleum Prospecting licenses are granted for an initial term
of six years with a five-year extension possible (an additional extension of
three years is possible in certain circumstances). Generally, a 50-percent
relinquishment of the license area is required at the end of the initial
six-year term, if extended. Petroleum Development licenses are granted for an
initial 25-year period. An extension of up to 20 years may be granted at the
Minister s discretion. Petroleum Retention licenses may be granted for gas
resources that are not commercially viable at the time of application, but may become
commercially viable within the maximum possible retention time of 15 years.
Petroleum Retention licenses are granted for five-year terms, and may be
extended, at the Minister s discretion, twice for the maximum retention time of
15 years. Extensions of Petroleum Retention licenses may be for periods of less
than one year, renewable annually, if the Minister considers at the time of
extension that the resources could become commercially viable in less than five
years.    

22       

Information with regard to the Downstream
segment follows:     

   ExxonMobil s Downstream segment manufactures and sells
petroleum products. The refining and supply operations encompass a global
network of manufacturing plants, transportation systems, and distribution
centers that provide a range of fuels, lubricants and other products and
feedstocks to our customers around the world.    

    Refining Capacity At
Year-End 2014       (1)    

(1)   Capacity data is based on
100 percent of rated refinery process unit stream-day capacities under
normal operating conditions, less the impact of shutdowns for regular repair
and maintenance activities, averaged over an extended period of time.     

    (2)   Thousands of barrels per day (KBD).
ExxonMobil share reflects 100 percent of atmospheric distillation capacity
in operations of ExxonMobil and majority-owned subsidiaries. For companies
owned 50 percent or less, ExxonMobil share is the greater of ExxonMobil s
interest or that portion of distillation capacity normally available to
ExxonMobil.     

23       

The marketing operations
sell products and services throughout the world through our    Exxon   ,    Esso    
and    Mobil     brands.   

    Retail Sites At Year-End 2014    

24       

Information with regard to the Chemical
segment follows:     

   ExxonMobil s Chemical segment manufactures and sells
petrochemicals. The Chemical business supplies olefins, polyolefins, aromatics,
and a wide variety of other petrochemicals.    

    Chemical Complex Capacity At Year-End 2014
      (1)(2)            

(1)   Capacity for ethylene, polyethylene,
polypropylene and paraxylene in millions of metric tons per year.     

    (2)   Capacity reflects 100 percent for
operations of ExxonMobil and majority-owned subsidiaries. For companies owned
50 percent or less, capacity is ExxonMobil s interest.     

25       

Item 3.       Legal
Proceedings    

   Regarding
the discussions between Chalmette Refining LLC (CRLLC), owner of the Chalmette
Refinery (operated by ExxonMobil Oil Corporation), and the Louisiana Department
of Environmental Quality (LDEQ) to resolve self-reported deviations from
refinery operations and relating to certain Clean Air Act Title V permit
conditions, limits and other requirements reported in the Corporation s Form
10-Q for the second quarter of 2012, on November 14, 2014, CRLLC received a
Consolidated Compliance Order and Notice of Potential Penalty (CCO/NOPP) from
LDEQ covering the deviations between 2009 and 2010. CRLLC and LDEQ have entered
a dispute resolution agreement, which suspends enforcement of the CCO/NOPP
while negotiations are ongoing.   

   Regarding allegations raised by LDEQ concerning the April
28, 2012, discharge of crude oil from the ExxonMobil Pipeline Company s (EMPCo)
North Line Pipeline near Torbert in Pointe Coupee Parish, Louisiana, previously
reported in the Corporation s Forms 10-Q for the third quarter of 2013 and the
third quarter of 2014, on December 9, 2014, LDEQ notified EMPCo that it was
seeking a Penalty Assessment of $471,000 related to the discharge. EMPCo has
timely requested an adjudicatory hearing on disputed issues of fact and law
related to the proposed penalty assessment.   

   With respect to the enforcement action filed by the United
States, on behalf of the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA),
and the State of Arkansas, on behalf of the Arkansas Department of
Environmental Quality, against EMPCo related to the discharge of crude oil from
the Pegasus Pipeline in Mayflower, Faulkner County, Arkansas, previously
reported in the Corporation s Forms 10-Q for the first, second and third
quarters of 2013 and the first and second quarters of 2014, a motion has been
filed to extend an earlier court approved stay of discovery to allow the
parties to pursue settlement discussions.   

   Regarding the $1.7 million penalty assessment against EMPCo
by the U.S. Department of Transportation Pipeline   Hazardous Materials
Safety Administration (PHMSA) for alleged violations of the federal Pipeline
Safety Regulations in connection with the July 1, 2011, discharge of crude oil
into the Yellowstone River from EMPCo s Silvertip Pipeline near Laurel, Montana,
reported in the Corporation s Forms 10-Q for the first and second quarters of
2013 and the second quarter of 2014, following a 2013 administrative hearing
requested by EMPCo to contest PHMSA allegations and the proposed penalty, on
January 23, 2015, PHMSA announced a final order reducing the penalty to $1.05
million.     On
February 12, 2015, EMPCo filed a motion for reconsideration of the final order.   

   With respect to the administrative orders
alleging Clean Water Act violations issued by the USEPA with regard to three
locations of XTO Energy, Inc. (XTO) in West Virginia and the five unresolved
additional West Virginia sites voluntarily disclosed by XTO to the USEPA
reported in the Corporation s Forms 10-Q for the first quarter of 2012 and the
first three quarters of 2014, in December 2014, XTO agreed to a settlement with
the Department of Justice, USEPA and West Virginia Department of Environmental
Protections (WVDEP) pursuant to which XTO would pay a civil penalty of $2.3
million and enter into a Consent Decree with the Department of Justice, USEPA
and WVDEP. The Consent Decree requires XTO to prepare and submit restoration
plans for approval by USEPA and WVDEP and conduct approximately $3.0 million in
restoration and mitigation activities at the impacted locations or at
alternative locations approved by the USEPA and WVDEP. The Consent Decree is
subject to Court approval. On January 6, 2015, the Justice Department published
a notice in the Federal Register stating that the Consent Decree had been
lodged with the Court and soliciting public comment for a period of 30 days.         

   Refer to the relevant portions of
 Note 16: Litigation and Other Contingencies  of the Financial Section of
this report for additional information on legal proceedings.    

   Item 4.       MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES   

  Not applicable.   

_______________________  

26       

Executive Officers of the Registrant [pursuant to
Instruction 3 to Regulation S-K, Item 401(b)]   

Rex W. Tillerson   

Chairman of the Board   

Held current title since:  

January 1, 2006  

Age: 62  

Mr. Rex W. Tillerson became a Director and President of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation on March 1, 2004. He became Chairman of the Board
  and Chief Executive Officer on January 1, 2006. He still holds these
  positions as of this filing date.  

Mark W. Albers   

Senior Vice President   

Held current title since:  

April 1, 2007  

Age: 58  

Mr. Mark W. Albers became Senior Vice President of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation on April 1, 2007, a position he still holds as of
  this filing date.  

Michael J. Dolan   

Senior Vice President   

Held current title since:  

April 1, 2008  

Age: 61  

Mr. Michael J. Dolan became Senior Vice President of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation on April 1, 2008, a position he still holds as of
  this filing date.  

Andrew P. Swiger   

Senior Vice President   

Held current title since:  

April 1, 2009  

Age: 58  

Mr. Andrew P. Swiger became Senior Vice President of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation on April 1, 2009, a position he still holds as of
  this filing date.  

S. Jack Balagia   

Vice President and General Counsel   

Held current title since:  

March 1, 2010  

Age: 63  

Mr. S. Jack Balagia was Assistant General Counsel of Exxon Mobil
  Corporation April 1, 2004   March 1, 2010. He became Vice
  President and General Counsel of Exxon Mobil Corporation on
  March 1, 2010, positions he still holds as of this filing date.   

27       

Neil A. Chapman   

Vice President   

Held current title since:  

January
  1, 2015  

Age: 52  

Mr. Neil A. Chapman was President of ExxonMobil
  Global Services Company April 4, 2007   March 31, 2011. He was Senior Vice
  President, ExxonMobil Chemical Company April 1, 2011   December 31, 2014. He
  became President of ExxonMobil Chemical Company and Vice President of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation on January 1, 2015, positions he still holds as of this
  filing date.  

William M. Colton   

Vice President   Corporate Strategic Planning   

Held current title since:  

February 1, 2009  

Age: 61  

Mr. William M. Colton became Vice President   Corporate Strategic
  Planning of Exxon Mobil Corporation on February 1, 2009, a position
  he still holds as of this filing date.  

Michael G. Cousins   

Vice President   

Held current
  title since:  

March
  1, 2013  

Age: 54  

Mr. Michael G.
  Cousins was Vice President, Asia Pacific/Middle East, ExxonMobil Exploration
  Company June 1, 2009   March 31, 2012. He was Executive Assistant to the
  Chairman, Exxon Mobil Corporation April 1, 2012   February 28, 2013.  He
  became President of ExxonMobil Upstream Ventures and Vice President of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation on March 1, 2013, positions he still holds as of this filing
  date.   

Neil W. Duffin   

President, ExxonMobil Development Company    

Held current title since:  

April 13, 2007  

Age: 58  

Mr. Neil W.
  Duffin became President of ExxonMobil Development Company on
  April 13, 2007, a position he still holds as of this filing date.  

Robert S. Franklin   

Vice President   

Held current title since:  

May
  1, 2009  

Age: 57  

Mr. Robert S.
  Franklin was President of ExxonMobil Upstream Ventures and Vice President of
  Exxon Mobil Corporation May 1, 2009   February 28, 2013. He became President
  of ExxonMobil Gas   Power Marketing Company and Vice President of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation on March 1, 2013, positions he still holds as of this
  filing date.  

Stephen M. Greenlee   

Vice President   

Held current title since:  

September
  1, 2010  

Age: 57  

Mr. Stephen M. Greenlee was President of
  ExxonMobil Upstream Research Company June 1, 2009  
  August 31, 2010. He became President of ExxonMobil Exploration
  Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on
  September 1, 2010, positions he still holds as of this filing date.  

28       

Alan J. Kelly   

Vice President   

Held current title since:  

December
  1, 2007  

Age: 57  

Mr. Alan J. Kelly became President of
  ExxonMobil Lubricants   Petroleum Specialties Company and Vice
  President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on December 1, 2007. On
  February 1, 2012, the businesses of ExxonMobil Lubricants  
  Petroleum Specialties Company and ExxonMobil Fuels Marketing Company were
  consolidated and Mr. Kelly became President of the combined ExxonMobil Fuels,
  Lubricants   Specialties Marketing Company and Vice President of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation, positions he still holds as of this filing date.  

David S. Rosenthal   

Vice President and Controller   

Held current title since:  

October 1,
  2008 (Vice President)  
    September
  1, 2014 (Controller)  

Age: 58  

Mr. David S. Rosenthal was Vice President
    Investor Relations and Secretary of Exxon Mobil Corporation
  October 1, 2008   August 31, 2014. He became Vice President and
  Controller of Exxon Mobil Corporation on September 1, 2014, positions he
  still holds as of this filing date.  

Robert N. Schleckser   

Vice President and Treasurer   

Held current title since:  

May
  1, 2011  

Age: 58  

Mr. Robert N. Schleckser was Assistant
  Treasurer of Exxon Mobil Corporation February 1, 2009  
  April 30, 2011. He became Vice President and Treasurer of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation on May 1, 2011, positions he still holds as of
  this filing date.  

James M. Spellings, Jr.   

Vice President and General Tax Counsel   

Held current title since:  

March
  1, 2010  

Age: 53  

Mr. James M. Spellings, Jr. was Associate
  General Tax Counsel of Exxon Mobil Corporation April 1, 2007  
  March 1, 2010. He became Vice President and General Tax Counsel of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation on March 1, 2010, positions he still holds as of this
  filing date.  

Thomas R. Walters   

Vice President   

Held current title since:  

April
  1, 2009  

Age: 60  

Mr. Thomas R. Walters was President of ExxonMobil
  Gas   Power Marketing Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil
  Corporation April 1, 2009   February 28, 2013. He became President of
  ExxonMobil Production Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation
  on March 1, 2013, positions he still holds as of this filing date.  

Dennis G. Wascom   

Vice President   

Held current title since:  

August
  1, 2014  

Age: 58  

Mr. Dennis G. Wascom was Director, Refining
  Americas, ExxonMobil Refining   Supply Company April 1, 2009   June 30,
  2013. He was Director, Refining North America, ExxonMobil Refining  
  Supply Company July 1, 2013   July 31, 2014. He became President of
  ExxonMobil Refining   Supply Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil
  Corporation on August 1, 2014, positions he still holds as of this filing
  date.  

Jeffrey J. Woodbury   

Vice President   Investor Relations and
  Secretary   

Held current title since:  

July
  1, 2011 (Vice President)  
    September
  1, 2014 (Secretary)  

Age: 54  

Mr. Jeffrey J. Woodbury was Executive Vice President
  of ExxonMobil Development Company April 1, 2009   June 30, 2011. He was Vice
  President, Safety, Security, Health and Environment of Exxon Mobil
  Corporation July 1, 2011   August 31, 2014. He became Vice President  
  Investor Relations and Secretary of Exxon Mobil Corporation on September 1,
  2014, positions he still holds as of this filing date.  

Officers are generally
elected by the Board of Directors at its meeting on the day of each annual
election of directors, with each such officer serving until a successor has
been elected and qualified.   

29       

PART II    

    Item 5.       Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    

   Reference is made to the  Quarterly Information  portion of
the Financial Section of this report.    

Note 1 - On August 1, 2000, the Corporation announced its
intention to resume purchases of shares of its common stock for the treasury
both to offset shares issued in conjunction with company benefit plans and
programs and to gradually reduce the number of shares outstanding. The
announcement did not specify an amount or expiration date. The Corporation has
continued to purchase shares since this announcement and to report purchased
volumes in its quarterly earnings releases. In its most recent earnings release
dated February 2, 2015, the Corporation stated that first quarter 2015 share
purchases to reduce shares outstanding are anticipated to equal
$1 billion. Purchases may be made in both the open market and through negotiated
transactions, and purchases may be increased, decreased or discontinued at any
time without prior notice.    

    Item 6.       Selected Financial
Data    

Item 7.       Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

   Reference is made to the section entitled  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in
the Financial Section of this report.    

    Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
Market Risk    

   Reference is made to the section entitled  Market Risks,
Inflation and Other Uncertainties , excluding the part entitled  Inflation and
Other Uncertainties,  in the Financial Section of this report. All statements
other than historical information incorporated in this Item 7A are
forward-looking statements. The actual impact of future market changes could
differ materially due to, among other things, factors discussed in this report.

30       

Item 8.       Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data   

  Reference is made to the following in the Financial
Section of this report:    

Consolidated financial statements, together with the
  report thereon of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP dated February 25, 2015,
  beginning with the section entitled  Report of Independent Registered Public
  Accounting Firm  and continuing through  Note 19: Income, Sales-Based
  and Other Taxes    

Quarterly Information  (unaudited);   

Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration
  and Production Activities  (unaudited); and  

Frequently Used Terms  (unaudited).   

Financial Statement Schedules have been omitted
because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the
consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.  

    Item 9.       Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants
on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    

   None.   

    Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures    

    Management s Evaluation of Disclosure
Controls and Procedures     

   As indicated in the certifications in Exhibit 31 of this
report, the Corporation s Chief Executive Officer, Principal Financial Officer
and Principal Accounting Officer have evaluated the Corporation s disclosure
controls and procedures as of December 31, 2014. Based on that
evaluation, these officers have concluded that the Corporation s disclosure
controls and procedures are effective in ensuring that information required to
be disclosed by the Corporation in the reports that it files or submits under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is accumulated and
communicated to them in a manner that allows for timely decisions regarding
required disclosures and are effective in ensuring that such information is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified
in the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and forms.    

    Management s Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting     

   Management, including the Corporation s Chief Executive
Officer, Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer, is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over the
Corporation s financial reporting. Management conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on criteria
established in    Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)    issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on
this evaluation, management concluded that Exxon Mobil Corporation s internal
control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2014.    

   PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent
registered public accounting firm, audited the effectiveness of the
Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2014, as stated in their report included in the Financial Section of this
report.    

    Changes in Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting     

   There were no changes during the Corporation s last fiscal
quarter that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
affect, the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting.    

    Item 9B.     Other Information    

   None.   

31       

PART
III   

   Item 10.     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
Governance   

  Incorporated by reference to the following from the
registrant s definitive proxy statement for the 2015 annual meeting of
shareholders (the  2015 Proxy Statement ):   

The section entitled  Election of Directors   

The portion entitled  Section 16(a) Beneficial
  Ownership Reporting Compliance  of the section entitled  Director and
  Executive Officer Stock Ownership   

The portions entitled  Director Qualifications  and
   Code of Ethics and Business Conduct  of the section entitled  Corporate
  Governance  and  

The  Audit Committee  portion and the membership
  table of the portion entitled  Board Meetings and Committees; Annual Meeting
  Attendance  of the section entitled  Corporate Governance .  

Item 11.     Executive Compensation    

   Incorporated by reference to the sections entitled
 Director Compensation,   Compensation Committee Report,   Compensation
Discussion and Analysis  and  Executive Compensation Tables  of the
registrant s 2015 Proxy Statement.    

    Item 12.     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    

   The information required under Item 403 of Regulation S-K
is incorporated by reference to the sections  Director and Executive Officer
Stock Ownership  and  Certain Beneficial Owners  of the registrant s 2015 Proxy
Statement.    

Equity Compensation Plan Information   

(a)    

(b)    

(c)    

Number of Securities   

Weighted-   

Remaining Available    

Average   

for Future Issuance   

Number of Securities   

Exercise Price    

Under Equity   

to be Issued Upon    

of Outstanding   

Compensation    

Exercise of   

Options,    

Plans [Excluding   

Outstanding Options,    

Warrants and    

Securities Reflected    

Plan
  Category   

Warrants and Rights   

Rights   

in Column (a)]   

Equity
  compensation plans approved by security holders  

24,243,615   

(1)   

-  

109,066,057   

(2)(3)   

Equity
  compensation plans not approved by security holders  

-  

-  

-  

Total  

24,243,615   

-  

109,066,057   

(1)   The number of restricted stock units
to be settled in shares.     

    (2)   Available shares can be granted in
the form of restricted stock, options, or other stock-based awards. Includes
108,454,857 shares available for award under the 2003 Incentive Program and 611,200
shares available for award under the 2004 Non-Employee Director Restricted
Stock Plan.     

    (3)   Under the 2004 Non-Employee Director
Restricted Stock Plan approved by shareholders in May 2004, and the related
standing resolution adopted by the Board, each non-employee director
automatically receives 8,000 shares of restricted stock when first elected to
the Board and, if the director remains in office, an additional 2,500
restricted shares each following year. While on the Board, each non-employee
director receives the same cash dividends on restricted shares as a holder of
regular common stock, but the director is not allowed to sell the shares. The
restricted shares may be forfeited if the director leaves the Board early.     

32       

Item 13.     Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    

   Incorporated by reference to the portions entitled  Related
Person Transactions and Procedures  and  Director Independence  of the section
entitled  Corporate Governance  of the registrant s 2015 Proxy Statement.    

    Item 14.     Principal Accounting
Fees and Services    

   Incorporated by reference to the portion entitled  Audit
Committee  of the section entitled  Corporate Governance  and the section
entitled  Ratification of Independent Auditors  of the registrant s 2015 Proxy
Statement.    

PART IV    

    Item 15.     Exhibits, Financial
Statement Schedules    

   (a)       (1) and
(2) Financial Statements:    

              See Table of Contents
of the Financial Section of this report.    

   (a)       (3)
Exhibits:    

              See Index to Exhibits
of this report.    

33       

FINANCIAL SECTION   

TABLE OF CONTENTS   

Business Profile  

35   

Financial Summary  

36   

Frequently Used Terms  

37   

Quarterly Information  

39   

Management s Discussion and Analysis
  of Financial Condition   
    and Results of Operations  

Functional Earnings  

40   

Forward-Looking Statements  

41   

Overview  

41   

Business Environment and Risk
  Assessment  

41   

Review of 2014 and 2013 Results  

44   

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

48   

Capital and Exploration Expenditures  

53   

Taxes  

53   

Environmental Matters  

54   

Market Risks, Inflation and Other
  Uncertainties  

54   

Recently Issued Accounting
  Standards                                                               

56   

Critical Accounting Estimates  

56   

Management s Report on Internal
  Control Over Financial Reporting  

60   

Report of Independent Registered
  Public Accounting Firm  

61   

Consolidated Financial Statements  

Statement of Income  

62   

Statement of Comprehensive Income  

63   

Balance Sheet  

64   

Statement of Cash Flows  

65   

Statement of Changes in Equity  

66   

Notes to Consolidated Financial
  Statements  

1. Summary of Accounting
  Policies  

67   

2. Accounting Changes  

69   

3. Miscellaneous
  Financial Information  

69   

4. Other Comprehensive
  Income Information  

70   

5. Cash Flow Information  

71   

6. Additional Working
  Capital Information  

71   

7. Equity Company
  Information  

72   

8. Investments, Advances
  and Long-Term Receivables  

73   

9. Property, Plant and
  Equipment and Asset Retirement Obligations  

74   

10. Accounting for Suspended
  Exploratory Well Costs  

75   

11. Leased Facilities  

77   

12. Earnings Per Share  

77   

13. Financial Instruments and
  Derivatives  

78   

14. Long-Term Debt  

79   

15. Incentive Program  

80   

16. Litigation and Other
  Contingencies  

81   

17. Pension and Other Postretirement
  Benefits  

83   

18. Disclosures about Segments and
  Related Information  

91   

19. Income, Sales-Based and Other
  Taxes  

94   

Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration
  and Production Activities  

97   

Operating Summary  

112  

34       

BUSINESS PROFILE    

See Frequently Used Terms for a definition
and calculation of capital employed and return on average capital employed.    

(1)        
    Gas converted to
oil-equivalent at 6 million cubic feet = 1 thousand barrels.    

   (2)        
    Prime product sales are
total product sales excluding carbon black oil and sulfur. Prime product sales
include ExxonMobil s share of equity company volumes and finished-product
transfers to the Downstream.   

35       

FINANCIAL SUMMARY     

(1)   Sales and other operating revenue
includes sales-based taxes of $29,342 million for 2014, $30,589 million for 2013,
$32,409 million for 2012, $33,503 million for 2011 and $28,547 million for 2010.

(2)   Debt net of cash, excluding
restricted cash.     

    (3)   Regular employees are defined as
active executive, management, professional, technical and wage employees who
work full time or part time for the Corporation and are covered by the
Corporation s benefit plans and programs.     

    (4)   CORS employees are employees of
company-operated retail sites.     

36       

FREQUENTLY USED TERMS     

Listed below are definitions of several of
ExxonMobil s key business and financial performance measures. These definitions
are provided to facilitate understanding of the terms and their calculation.    

    Cash Flow From Operations and Asset Sales     

   Cash
flow from operations and asset sales is the sum of the net cash provided by
operating activities and proceeds associated with sales of subsidiaries,
property, plant and equipment, and sales and returns of investments from the
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. This cash flow reflects the total sources
of cash from both operating the Corporation s assets and from the divesting of
assets. The Corporation employs a long-standing and regular disciplined review
process to ensure that all assets are contributing to the Corporation s
strategic objectives. Assets are divested when they are no longer meeting these
objectives or are worth considerably more to others. Because of the regular
nature of this activity, we believe it is useful for investors to consider
proceeds associated with asset sales together with cash provided by operating
activities when evaluating cash available for investment in the business and
financing activities, including shareholder distributions.    

Capital Employed     

   Capital
employed is a measure of net investment. When viewed from the perspective of
how the capital is used by the businesses, it includes ExxonMobil s net share
of property, plant and equipment and other assets less liabilities, excluding
both short-term and long-term debt. When viewed from the perspective of the
sources of capital employed in total for the Corporation, it includes
ExxonMobil s share of total debt and equity. Both of these views include
ExxonMobil s share of amounts applicable to equity companies, which the
Corporation believes should be included to provide a more comprehensive measure
of capital employed.    

37       

FREQUENTLY USED TERMS     

Return on
Average Capital Employed     

   Return
on average capital employed (ROCE) is a performance measure ratio. From the
perspective of the business segments, ROCE is annual business segment earnings
divided by average business segment capital employed (average of beginning and
end-of-year amounts). These segment earnings include ExxonMobil s share of
segment earnings of equity companies, consistent with our capital employed
definition, and exclude the cost of financing. The Corporation s total ROCE is
net income attributable to ExxonMobil excluding the after-tax cost of
financing, divided by total corporate average capital employed. The Corporation
has consistently applied its ROCE definition for many years and views it as the
best measure of historical capital productivity in our capital-intensive,
long-term industry, both to evaluate management s performance and to
demonstrate to shareholders that capital has been used wisely over the long
term. Additional measures, which are more cash flow based, are used to make
investment decisions.    

38       

QUARTERLY INFORMATION     

(1)   Gas converted to oil-equivalent at
6 million cubic feet = 1 thousand barrels.     

    (2)   Amounts in first three quarters of
2014 have been reclassified.    

    (3)   Includes amounts for sales-based
taxes.     

    (4)   Gross profit equals sales and other
operating revenue less estimated costs associated with products sold.     

    (5)   Computed using the average number of
shares outstanding during each period. The sum of the four quarters may not add
to the full year.     

The
price range of ExxonMobil common stock is as reported on the composite tape of
the several U.S. exchanges where ExxonMobil common stock is traded. The
principal market where ExxonMobil common stock (XOM) is traded is the New York
Stock Exchange, although the stock is traded on other exchanges in and
outside the United States.    

   There were 433,941 registered shareholders of ExxonMobil
common stock at December 31, 2014. At January 31, 2015, the
registered shareholders of ExxonMobil common stock numbered 432,983.    

   On January 28, 2015, the Corporation declared a $0.69
dividend per common share, payable March 10, 2015.   

39       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

References in this discussion to total
corporate earnings mean net income attributable to ExxonMobil (U.S. GAAP) from
the consolidated income statement. Unless otherwise indicated, references to
earnings, Upstream, Downstream, Chemical and Corporate and Financing segment
earnings, and earnings per share are ExxonMobil s share after excluding amounts
attributable to noncontrolling interests.    

40       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS     

   Statements
in this discussion regarding expectations, plans and future events or
conditions are forward-looking statements. Actual future results, including
demand growth and energy source mix; capacity increases; production growth and
mix; rates of field decline; financing sources; the resolution of contingencies
and uncertain tax positions; environmental and capital expenditures; could
differ materially depending on a number of factors, such as changes in the
supply of and demand for crude oil, natural gas, and petroleum and
petrochemical products; the outcome of commercial negotiations; political or
regulatory events, and other factors discussed herein and in Item 1A. Risk
Factors.    

   The term  project  as used in this report can refer to a
variety of different activities and does not necessarily have the same meaning
as in any government payment transparency reports.   

OVERVIEW     

   The
following discussion and analysis of ExxonMobil s financial results, as well as
the accompanying financial statements and related notes to consolidated
financial statements to which they refer, are the responsibility of the
management of Exxon Mobil Corporation. The Corporation s accounting and
financial reporting fairly reflect its straightforward business model involving
the extracting, manufacturing and marketing of hydrocarbons and
hydrocarbon-based products. The Corporation s business model involves the
production (or purchase), manufacture and sale of physical products, and all
commercial activities are directly in support of the underlying physical
movement of goods.    

   ExxonMobil, with its resource base, financial strength,
disciplined investment approach and technology portfolio, is well-positioned to
participate in substantial investments to develop new energy supplies. While
commodity prices are volatile on a short-term basis and depend on supply and
demand, ExxonMobil s investment decisions are based on our long-term business
outlook, using a disciplined approach in selecting and pursuing the most
attractive investment opportunities. The corporate plan is a fundamental annual
management process that is the basis for setting near-term operating and
capital objectives in addition to providing the longer-term economic
assumptions used for investment evaluation purposes. Volumes are based on
individual field production profiles, which are also updated annually. Price
ranges for crude oil, natural gas, refined products, and chemical products are
based on corporate plan assumptions developed annually by major region and are utilized
for investment evaluation purposes. Potential investment opportunities are evaluated
over a wide range of economic scenarios to establish the resiliency of each
opportunity. Once investments are made, a reappraisal process is completed to
ensure relevant lessons are learned and improvements are incorporated into
future projects.    

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND RISK ASSESSMENT     

    Long-Term Business Outlook     

   By
2040, the world s population is projected to grow to approximately 9 billion
people, or about 2 billion more than in 2010. Coincident with this
population increase, the Corporation expects worldwide economic growth to
average close to 3 percent per year. As economies and populations grow,
and as living standards improve for billions of people, the need for energy
will continue to rise. Even with significant efficiency gains, global energy
demand is projected to rise by about 35 percent from 2010 to 2040. This
demand increase is expected to be concentrated in developing countries (i.e.,
those that are not member nations of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development).     

   As expanding prosperity drives global energy demand higher,
increasing use of energy-efficient and lower-emission fuels, technologies and
practices will continue to help significantly reduce energy consumption and
emissions per unit of economic output over time. Substantial efficiency gains are
likely in all key aspects of the world s economy through 2040, affecting energy
requirements for transportation, power generation, industrial applications, and
residential and commercial needs.   

   Energy for transportation   including cars, trucks, ships,
trains and airplanes   is expected to increase by about 40 percent from
2010 to 2040. The growth in transportation energy demand is likely to account
for approximately 60 percent of the growth in liquid fuels demand worldwide
over this period. Nearly all the world s transportation fleets will continue to
run on liquid fuels, which are abundant, widely available, easy to transport,
and provide a large quantity of energy in small volumes.   

   Demand for electricity around the world is likely to
increase approximately 85 percent by 2040, led by growth in developing
countries. Consistent with this projection, power generation is expected to
remain the largest and fastest-growing major segment of global energy demand.
Meeting the expected growth in power demand will require a diverse set of
energy sources. Natural gas demand is likely to grow most significantly and
become the leading source of generated electricity by 2040, reflecting the
efficiency of gas-fired power plants. Today, coal has the largest fuel share in
the power sector, but its share is likely to decline significantly by 2040 as
policies are gradually adopted to reduce environmental impacts including those
related to local air quality and greenhouse gas emissions. Nuclear power and
renewables, led by hydropower and wind, are also expected to grow significantly
over the period.   

41       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

Liquid fuels provide the largest share of global
energy supplies today due to their broad-based availability, affordability and
ease of transportation, distribution and storage to meet consumer needs. By
2040, global demand for liquid fuels is expected to grow to approximately 115 million
barrels of oil equivalent per day, an increase of almost 30 percent
from 2010. Globally, crude production from traditional conventional sources
will likely decrease slightly through 2040, with significant development
activity mostly offsetting natural declines from these fields. However, this
decrease is expected to be more than offset by rising production from a variety
of emerging supply sources   including tight oil, deepwater, oil sands, natural
gas liquids and biofuels. The world s resource base is sufficient to meet
projected demand through 2040 as technology advances continue to expand the
availability of economic supply options. However, access to resources and
timely investments will remain critical to meeting global needs with reliable,
affordable supplies.   

   Natural gas is a versatile fuel, suitable for a wide
variety of applications, and is expected to be the fastest growing major fuel
source through 2040. Global demand is expected to rise about 65 percent
from 2010 to 2040, with about half of that increase in the Asia Pacific region.
Helping meet these needs will be significant growth in supplies of
unconventional gas   the natural gas found in shale and other rock formations
that was once considered uneconomic to produce. About two-thirds of the growth
in natural gas supplies is expected to be from unconventional sources, which
will account for close to 35 percent of global gas supplies by 2040. The
worldwide liquefied natural gas (LNG) market is expected to more than triple by
2040, stimulated by growing natural gas demand.   

   The world s energy mix is highly diverse and will remain so
through 2040. Oil is expected to remain the largest source of energy with its
share remaining close to one-third in 2040. Coal is currently the second
largest source of energy, but it is likely to lose that position to natural gas
in the 2025-2030 timeframe. The share of natural gas is expected to exceed 25 percent
by 2040, while the share of coal falls to less than 20 percent. Nuclear
power is projected to grow significantly, as many nations expand nuclear
capacity to address rising electricity needs as well as energy security and
environmental issues. Total renewable energy is likely to reach about 15 percent
of total energy by 2040, with biomass, hydro and geothermal contributing a
combined share of more than 10 percent. Total energy supplied from wind,
solar and biofuels is expected to increase close to 450 percent from 2010
to 2040, when they will be approaching 4 percent of world energy.   

   The Corporation anticipates that the world s available oil
and gas resource base will grow not only from new discoveries, but also from
reserve increases in previously discovered fields. Technology will underpin
these increases. The cost to develop and supply these resources will be
significant. According to the International Energy Agency, the investment
required to meet total oil and gas energy needs worldwide over the period 2014 2040
will be about $28 trillion (measured in 2013 dollars) or more than $1 trillion
per year on average.   

   International accords and underlying regional and national
regulations covering greenhouse gas emissions are evolving with uncertain
timing and outcome, making it difficult to predict their business impact.
ExxonMobil includes estimates of potential costs related to possible public
policies covering energy-related greenhouse gas emissions in its long-term    Outlook
for Energy   , which is used as a foundation for assessing the business
environment and in its investment evaluations.     

   The information provided in the Long-Term Business Outlook
includes ExxonMobil s internal estimates and forecasts based upon internal data
and analyses as well as publicly available information from external sources
including the International Energy Agency.   

Upstream     

   ExxonMobil
continues to maintain a diverse portfolio of exploration and development
opportunities, which enables the Corporation to be selective, maximizing
shareholder value and mitigating political and technical risks. ExxonMobil s
fundamental Upstream business strategies guide our global exploration,
development, production, and gas and power marketing activities. These
strategies include capturing material and accretive opportunities to
continually high-grade the resource portfolio, exercising a disciplined
approach to investing and cost management, developing and applying high-impact
technologies, pursuing productivity and efficiency gains, growing profitable
oil and gas production, and capitalizing on growing natural gas and power
markets. These strategies are underpinned by a relentless focus on operational
excellence, commitment to innovative technologies, development of our
employees, and investment in the communities within which we operate.    

   As future development projects and drilling activities
bring new production online, the Corporation expects a shift in the geographic
mix and in the type of opportunities from which volumes are produced. Oil equivalent
production from North America is expected to increase over the next several
years based on current capital activity plans, contributing over a third of
total production. Further, the proportion of our global production from resource
types utilizing specialized technologies such as arctic, deepwater, and
unconventional drilling and production systems, as well as LNG, is also expected
to grow, becoming a slight majority of production in the next few years. We do
not anticipate that the expected change in the geographic mix of production
volumes, and in the types of opportunities from which volumes will be produced,
will have a material impact on the       

42       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

nature and the
extent of the risks disclosed in Item 1A. Risk Factors, or result in a material
change in our level of unit operating expenses.    

   The Corporation s overall volume capacity outlook, based on
projects coming onstream as anticipated, is for production capacity to grow over
the next few years. However, actual volumes will vary from year to year due to
the timing of individual project start-ups and other capital activities,
operational outages, reservoir performance, performance of enhanced oil
recovery projects, regulatory changes, the impact of fiscal and commercial
terms, asset sales, weather events, price effects on production sharing
contracts and other factors described in Item 1A. Risk Factors. Enhanced oil
recovery projects extract hydrocarbons from reservoirs in excess of that which
may be produced through primary recovery, i.e., through pressure depletion or
natural aquifer support. They include the injection of water, gases or chemicals
into a reservoir to produce hydrocarbons otherwise unobtainable.   

   The markets for crude oil and natural gas have a history of
significant price volatility. After some years of relatively stable prices, the
end of 2014 saw crude prices drop to levels not seen since 2009. ExxonMobil
believes prices over the long term will continue to be driven by market supply
and demand, with the demand side largely being a function of global economic
growth. To manage the risks associated with price, ExxonMobil evaluates annual
plans and all investments across a wide range of price scenarios. The
Corporation s assessment is that its operations will continue to be successful
in a variety of market conditions. This is the outcome of disciplined
investment, cost management, and asset enhancement programs.   

Downstream     

   ExxonMobil s
Downstream is a large, diversified business with refining, logistics, and
marketing complexes around the world. The Corporation has a presence in mature
markets in North America and Europe, as well as in the growing Asia Pacific
region. ExxonMobil s fundamental Downstream business strategies position the
company to deliver long-term growth in shareholder value that is superior to
competition across a range of market conditions. These strategies include targeting
best in class operations in all aspects of the business, maximizing
value from advanced technologies, capitalizing on integration across ExxonMobil
businesses, selectively investing for resilient, advantaged returns, operating
efficiently and effectively, and providing quality, valued products and
services to customers.    

   ExxonMobil has an ownership interest in 30 refineries,
located in 17 countries, with distillation capacity of 5.2 million
barrels per day and lubricant basestock manufacturing capacity of 131 thousand
barrels per day. ExxonMobil s fuels and lubes marketing businesses have significant
global reach, with multiple channels to market serving a diverse customer base.
Our portfolio of world-renowned brands includes    Exxon   ,    Mobil   ,    Esso    
and    Mobil 1   .     

   The downstream industry environment remains challenging. Demand
weakness and overcapacity in the refining sector will continue to increase
competitive pressure. In the near term, we see variability in refining margins,
with some regions seeing weaker margins as new capacity additions outpace
global demand. In North America, lower raw material and energy cost driven by
increasing crude oil and natural gas production has strengthened refining
margins over the past few years.      

   Refining margins are largely driven by differences in
commodity prices and are a function of the difference between what a refinery
pays for its raw materials (primarily crude oil) and the market prices for the
range of products produced (primarily gasoline, heating oil, diesel oil, jet
fuel and fuel oil). Crude oil and many products are widely traded with
published prices, including those quoted on multiple exchanges around the world
(e.g., New York Mercantile Exchange and Intercontinental Exchange). Prices for
these commodities are determined by the global marketplace and are influenced
by many factors, including global and regional supply/demand balances,
inventory levels, industry refinery operations, import/export balances,
currency fluctuations, seasonal demand, weather and political climate.    

   ExxonMobil s long term outlook is that industry refining
margins will remain subject to intense competition as, in the near term, new
capacity additions outpace the growth in global demand. Additionally, as
described in more detail in Item 1A. Risk Factors, proposed carbon policy and
other climate-related regulations in many countries, as well as the continued
growth in biofuels mandates, could have negative impacts on the refining
business. ExxonMobil s integration across the value chain, from refining to
marketing, enhances overall value in both fuels and lubricants businesses.    

   In the retail fuels marketing business, competition has
caused inflation-adjusted margins to decline. In 2014, ExxonMobil expanded its
branded retail site network in the U.S. and progressed the multi year
transition of the direct served (i.e., dealer, company operated) retail
network in portions of Europe to a more capital efficient branded
distributor model. ExxonMobil is increasing investment in its fuels brands and
developing multiple programs that will enhance the value of its consumer retail
offer. The company s lubricants business continues to grow, leveraging
world-class brands and integration with industry leading basestock
refining capability. ExxonMobil remains a market leader in the high value
synthetic lubricants sector where competition is increasing.      

   The Downstream portfolio is continually evaluated during all
parts of the business cycle, and numerous asset divestments have been made over
the past decade. When investing in the Downstream, ExxonMobil remains focused
on selective and resilient       

43       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

projects. These investments
capitalize on the Corporation s world class scale and integration, demonstrated
efficiency, advanced technology and respected brands, enabling ExxonMobil to
take advantage of attractive emerging growth opportunities around the globe. In
2014, the company commissioned the clean fuels project at the joint Saudi
Aramco and ExxonMobil SAMREF Refinery in Yanbu, Saudi Arabia, to produce low
sulfur gasoline and ultra low sulfur diesel. Construction started on a
new delayed coker unit at the refinery in Antwerp, Belgium, to upgrade
low-value bunker fuel into high value diesel products. The company also
completed an expansion of lube basestock capacity at the refinery in Singapore,
and neared completion on a lube basestock expansion in Baytown, Texas. A
finished lubricant plant expansion in Tianjin, China, was completed and
additional lubricant plant expansions in China, Singapore, Finland, and the
U.S. are underway to support demand growth for finished lubricants and greases
in key markets.   

Chemical     

   Worldwide
petrochemical demand continued to improve in 2014, led by growing demand from
Asia Pacific manufacturers of industrial and consumer products. North America
continued to benefit from abundant supplies of natural gas and gas liquids,
providing both low-cost feedstock and energy savings. Specialty product margins
declined reflecting significant new industry capacity.    

   ExxonMobil sustained its competitive advantage through
continued operational excellence, investment and cost discipline, a balanced
portfolio of products, integration with refining and upstream operations, all
underpinned by proprietary technology.   

   In 2014, ExxonMobil began construction of a major expansion
at our Texas facilities, including a new world-scale ethane cracker and
polyethylene lines, to capitalize on low-cost feedstock and energy supplies in
North America and meet rapidly growing demand for premium polymers.
Construction of new halobutyl rubber and hydrocarbon resin units also started
in Singapore to further extend our specialty product capacity in Asia. At the
joint venture facility in Al-Jubail, Saudi Arabia, construction continued on
the specialty elastomers project that is expected to start-up in 2015.   

2014     

   Upstream earnings were $27,548 million,
up $707 million from 2013. Lower prices decreased earnings by
$2.0 billion. Favorable volume effects increased earnings by
$510 million. All other items, primarily asset sales and favorable U.S.
deferred income tax items, increased earnings by $2.2 billion. On an oil equivalent
basis, production of 4.0 million barrels per day was down 4.9 percent
compared to 2013. Excluding the impact of the expiry of the Abu Dhabi onshore
concession, production decreased 1.7 percent. Liquids production of
2.1 million barrels per day decreased 91,000 barrels per day compared
to 2013. The Abu Dhabi onshore concession expiry reduced volumes by
135,000 barrels per day. Excluding this impact, liquids production was up
2 percent, driven by project ramp up and work programs. Natural gas
production of 11.1 billion cubic feet per day decreased 691 million
cubic feet per day from 2013, as expected U.S. field decline and lower European
demand were partially offset by project ramp up and work programs. Earnings
from U.S. Upstream operations were $5,197 million, up $1,006 million
from 2013. Earnings outside the U.S. were $22,351 million, down
$299 million from the prior year.   

2013     

   Upstream earnings were
$26,841 million, down $3,054 million from 2012. Higher gas
realizations, partially offset by lower liquids realizations, increased
earnings by $390 million. Production volume and mix effects decreased
earnings by $910 million. All other items, including lower net gains from
asset sales, mainly in Angola, and higher expenses, reduced earnings by
$2.5 billion. On an oil equivalent basis, production was down
1.5 percent compared to 2012. Excluding the impacts of entitlement       

44       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

volumes, OPEC quota effects and divestments, production
was essentially flat. Liquids production of 2.2 million barrels per day
increased 17,000 barrels per day compared with 2012. Excluding the impacts
of entitlement volumes, OPEC quota effects and divestments, liquids production
was up 1.6 percent, as project ramp up and lower downtime were
partially offset by field decline.  Natural gas production of 11.8 billion
cubic feet per day decreased 486 million cubic feet per day from 2012.
Excluding the impacts of entitlement volumes and divestments, natural gas
production was down 1.5 percent, as field decline was partially offset by
higher demand, lower downtime, and project ramp up. Earnings from U.S.
Upstream operations for 2013 were $4,191 million, up $266 million
from 2012. Earnings outside the U.S. were $22,650 million, down
$3,320 million from the prior year.    

Listed below are
descriptions of ExxonMobil s volumes reconciliation factors which are provided
to facilitate understanding of the terms.   

Entitlements - Net Interest      are changes to ExxonMobil s share of
production volumes caused by non-operational changes to volume-determining
factors. These factors consist of net interest changes specified in Production
Sharing Contracts (PSCs) which typically occur when cumulative investment
returns or production volumes achieve defined thresholds, changes in equity
upon achieving pay-out in partner investment carry situations, equity
redeterminations as specified in venture agreements, or as a result of the
termination or expiry of a concession. Once a net interest change has occurred,
it typically will not be reversed by subsequent events, such as lower crude oil
prices.   

Entitlements - Price, Spend and Other      are changes to ExxonMobil s share of
production volumes resulting from temporary changes to non-operational
volume-determining factors. These factors include changes in oil and gas prices
or spending levels from one period to another. According to the terms of
contractual arrangements or government royalty regimes, price or spending
variability can increase or decrease royalty burdens and/or volumes
attributable to ExxonMobil. For example, at higher prices, fewer barrels are
required for ExxonMobil to recover its costs. These effects generally vary from
period to period with field spending patterns or market prices for oil and
natural gas. Such factors can also include other temporary changes in net
interest as dictated by specific provisions in production agreements.   

Quotas      are changes in ExxonMobil s allowable production arising
from production constraints imposed by countries which are members of the
Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). Volumes reported in
this category would have been readily producible in the absence of the quota.   

Divestments      are reductions in ExxonMobil s production
arising from commercial arrangements to fully or partially reduce equity in a
field or asset in exchange for financial or other economic consideration.    

Growth and Other      factors comprise all other operational
and non-operational factors not covered by the above definitions that may
affect volumes attributable to ExxonMobil. Such factors include, but are not
limited to, production enhancements from project and work program activities,
acquisitions including additions from asset exchanges, downtime, market demand,
natural field decline, and any fiscal or commercial terms that do not affect
entitlements.   

45       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

2014     

   Downstream earnings of $3,045 million
decreased $404 million from 2013. Lower margins decreased earnings by
$230 million. Volume and mix effects increased earnings by
$480 million. All other items, primarily unfavorable foreign exchange and
tax impacts, partially offset by lower expenses, decreased earnings by
$650 million. Petroleum product sales of 5.9 million barrels per day
were in line with 2013. U.S. Downstream earnings were $1,618 million, a
decrease of $581 million from 2013. Non U.S. Downstream earnings
were $1,427 million, up $177 million from the prior year.   

2013     

   Downstream earnings of $3,449 million
decreased $9,741 million from 2012 driven by the absence of the
$5.3 billion gain associated with the Japan restructuring. Lower margins,
mainly refining, decreased earnings by $2.9 billion. Volume and mix
effects decreased earnings by $310 million. All other items, including
higher operating expenses, unfavorable foreign exchange impacts, and lower
divestments, decreased earnings by $1.2 billion. Petroleum product sales
of 5.9 million barrels per day decreased 287,000 barrels per day from
2012. U.S. Downstream earnings were $2,199 million, down
$1,376 million from 2012. Non-U.S. Downstream earnings were
$1,250 million, a decrease of $8,365 million from the prior year.   

46       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

2014     

   Chemical earnings of $4,315 million
increased $487 million from 2013. Higher commodity driven margins
increased earnings by $520 million, while volume and mix effects increased
earnings by $100 million. All other items, primarily higher planned
expenses, decreased earnings by $130 million. Prime product sales of
24.2 million metric tons were up 172,000 tons from 2013, driven by
increased Singapore production. U.S. Chemical earnings were $2,804 million,
up $49 million from 2013. Non U.S. Chemical earnings were $1,511 million,
$438 million higher than the prior year.   

2013     

   Chemical earnings of $3,828 million
were $70 million lower than 2012. The absence of the gain associated with
the Japan restructuring decreased earnings by $630 million. Higher margins
increased earnings by $480 million, while volume and mix effects increased
earnings by $80 million. Prime product sales of 24.1 million metric tons were
down 94,000 tons from 2012. U.S. Chemical earnings were $2,755 million,
up $535 million from 2012. Non U.S. Chemical earnings were
$1,073 million, $605 million lower than the prior year.   

2014     

   Corporate and financing expenses were $2,388 million
in 2014, up $850 million from 2013 due primarily to tax related
items.    

2013     

   Corporate and financing expenses were
$1,538 million, down $565 million from 2012, as favorable tax impacts
were partially offset by the absence of the Japan restructuring gain.    

47       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

Total
cash and cash equivalents were $4.7 billion at the end of 2014, $0.3 billion
lower than the prior year. The major sources of funds in 2014 were net income
including noncontrolling interests of $33.6 billion, the adjustment for the
noncash provision of $17.3 billion for depreciation and depletion, a net debt
increase of $7.0 billion and collection of advances of $3.3 billion. The major
uses of funds included spending for additions to property, plant and equipment
of $33.0 billion, the purchase of shares of ExxonMobil stock of $13.2 billion,
dividends to shareholders of $11.6 billion and a change in working capital,
excluding cash and debt, of $4.9 billion. Included in total cash and cash equivalents
at year-end 2014 was $42 million of restricted cash.    

   Total cash and cash equivalents were $4.9 billion at the
end of 2013, $5.0 billion lower than the prior year. The major sources of funds
in 2013 were net income including noncontrolling interests of $33.4 billion,
the adjustment for the noncash provision of $17.2 billion for depreciation and
depletion, and a net debt increase of $11.6 billion. The major uses of funds
included spending for additions to property, plant and equipment of $33.7
billion, the purchase of ExxonMobil stock of $16.0 billion, dividends to
shareholders of $10.9 billion and a change in working capital, excluding cash
and debt, of $4.7 billion. Included in total cash and cash equivalents at
year-end 2013 was $0.3 billion of restricted cash. For additional details, see
the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.    

   The Corporation has access to significant capacity of long-term
and short-term liquidity. Internally generated funds are expected to cover the
majority of financial requirements, supplemented by long-term and short-term
debt. On December 31, 2014, the Corporation had unused committed short-term
lines of credit of $6.3 billion and unused committed long-term lines of credit
of $0.5 billion. Cash that may be temporarily available as surplus to the
Corporation s immediate needs is carefully managed through counterparty quality
and investment guidelines to ensure it is secure and readily available to meet
the Corporation s cash requirements and to optimize returns.    

   To support cash flows in future periods the Corporation
will need to continually find and develop new fields, and continue to develop
and apply new technologies and recovery processes to existing fields, in order
to maintain or increase production. After a period of production at plateau
rates, it is the nature of oil and gas fields eventually to produce at
declining rates for the remainder of their economic life. Averaged over all the
Corporation s existing oil and gas fields and without new projects, ExxonMobil s
production is expected to decline at an average of approximately 3 percent per
year over the next few years. Decline rates can vary widely by individual field
due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the type of
reservoir, fluid properties, recovery mechanisms, work activity, and age of the
field. Furthermore, the Corporation s net interest in production for individual
fields can vary with price and the impact of fiscal and commercial terms.    

   The Corporation has long been successful at offsetting the
effects of natural field decline through disciplined investments in quality
opportunities and project execution. Over the last decade, this has resulted in
net annual additions to proved reserves that have exceeded the amount produced.
Projects are in progress or planned to increase production capacity. However,
these volume increases are subject to a variety of risks including project
start-up timing, operational outages, reservoir performance, the impact of
fiscal and commercial terms, crude oil and natural gas prices, weather events,
and regulatory changes. The Corporation s cash flows are also highly dependent
on crude oil and natural gas prices. Please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors
for a more complete discussion of risks.    

   The Corporation s financial strength enables it to make large,
long-term capital expenditures. Capital and exploration expenditures in 2014
were $38.5 billion, reflecting the Corporation s continued active investment
program. The Corporation anticipates an average investment profile of about $34
billion     per year for the next few years. Actual
spending could vary depending on the progress of individual projects and
property acquisitions. The Corporation has a large and diverse portfolio of       

48       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

development projects and exploration opportunities, which
helps mitigate the overall political and technical risks of the Corporation s
Upstream segment and associated cash flow. Further, due to its financial
strength, debt capacity and diverse portfolio of opportunities, the risk
associated with failure or delay of any single project would not have a
significant impact on the Corporation s liquidity or ability to generate
sufficient cash flows for operations and its fixed commitments. The purchase
and sale of oil and gas properties have not had a significant impact on the
amount or timing of cash flows from operating activities.    

Cash Flow from
Operating Activities    

2014     

   Cash provided by operating activities
totaled $45.1 billion in 2014, $0.2 billion higher than 2013. The major source
of funds was net income including noncontrolling interests of $33.6 billion, an
increase of $0.2 billion. The noncash provision for depreciation and depletion
was $17.3 billion, up $0.1 billion from the prior year. The adjustment for net
gains on asset sales was $3.2 billion compared to an adjustment of $1.8 billion
in 2013. Changes in operational working capital, excluding cash and debt,
decreased cash in 2014 by $4.9 billion.   

2013     

   Cash provided by operating activities
totaled $44.9 billion in 2013, $11.3 billion lower than 2012. The major source
of funds was net income including noncontrolling interests of $33.4 billion, a
decrease of $14.2 billion. The noncash provision of $17.2 billion for
depreciation and depletion was higher than 2012. The adjustment for net gains
on asset sales was $1.8 billion compared to an adjustment of $13.0 billion in
2012. Changes in operational working capital, excluding cash and debt,
decreased cash in 2013 by $4.7 billion.   

Cash Flow from
Investing Activities    

2014    

   Cash used in investment activities netted to $27.0 billion
in 2014, $7.2 billion lower than 2013. Spending for property, plant and
equipment of $33.0 billion decreased $0.7 billion from 2013. Proceeds
associated with sales of subsidiaries, property, plant and equipment, and sales
and returns of investments of $4.0 billion compared to $2.7 billion in 2013.
Additional investments and advances were $2.8 billion lower in 2014, while
collection of advances was $2.2 billion higher in 2014.   

2013     

   Cash used in investment activities netted to $34.2 billion
in 2013, $8.6 billion higher than 2012. Spending for property, plant and
equipment of $33.7 billion decreased $0.6 billion from 2012. Proceeds
associated with sales of subsidiaries, property, plant and equipment, and sales
and returns of investments of $2.7 billion compared to $7.7 billion in 2012.
Additional investments and advances were $3.8 billion higher in 2013.    

Cash Flow from
Financing Activities     

2014     

   Cash
used in financing activities was $17.9 billion in 2014, $2.4 billion higher
than 2013. Dividend payments on common shares increased to $2.70 per share from
$2.46 per share and totaled $11.6 billion, a pay-out of 36 percent of net income.
During the first quarter of 2014, the Corporation issued $5.5 billion of
long-term debt. Total debt increased $6.4 billion to $29.1 billion at year end.

ExxonMobil share of equity increased $0.4 billion to $174.4
billion. The addition to equity for earnings was $32.5 billion. This was offset
by reductions for distributions to ExxonMobil shareholders of $23.6 billion, composed
of $11.6 billion in dividends and $12.0 billion of share purchases of ExxonMobil
stock to reduce shares outstanding. Foreign exchange translation effects of
$5.1 billion for the stronger U.S. currency and a $3.1 billion change in the
funded status of the postretirement benefits reserves also reduced equity.   

   During 2014, Exxon
Mobil Corporation purchased 136 million shares of its common stock for the
treasury at a gross cost of $13.2 billion. These purchases were to reduce the
number of shares outstanding and to offset shares issued in conjunction with
company benefit plans and programs. Shares outstanding were reduced by 3.1
percent from 4,335 million to 4,201 million at the end of 2014. Purchases were
made in both the open market and through negotiated transactions. Purchases may
be increased, decreased or discontinued at any time without prior notice.   

49       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

2013     

   Cash
used in financing activities was $15.5 billion in 2013, $18.4 billion lower
than 2012. Dividend payments on common shares increased to $2.46 per share from
$2.18 per share and totaled $10.9 billion, a pay-out of 33 percent of net
income. Total debt increased $11.1 billion to $22.7 billion at year end.    

   ExxonMobil share of equity increased $8.1 billion to $174.0
billion. The addition to equity for earnings of $32.6 billion was partially
offset by reductions for distributions to ExxonMobil shareholders of $10.9
billion of dividends and $15.0 billion of purchases of shares of ExxonMobil
stock to reduce shares outstanding.    

   During 2013, Exxon
Mobil Corporation purchased 177 million shares of its common stock for the
treasury at a gross cost of $16.0 billion. These purchases were to reduce the
number of shares outstanding and to offset shares issued in conjunction with
company benefit plans and programs. Shares outstanding were reduced by 3.7
percent from 4,502 million to 4,335 million at the end of 2013. Purchases were
made in both the open market and through negotiated transactions.    

50       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

Commitments

Set
forth below is information about the outstanding commitments of the
Corporation s consolidated subsidiaries at December 31, 2014. It combines
data from the Consolidated Balance Sheet and from individual notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.    

This
table excludes commodity purchase obligations (volumetric commitments but no
fixed or minimum price) which are resold shortly after purchase, either in an
active, highly liquid market or under long-term, unconditional sales contracts
with similar pricing terms. Examples include long-term, noncancelable LNG and
natural gas purchase commitments and commitments to purchase refinery products
at market prices. Inclusion of such commitments would not be meaningful in
assessing liquidity and cash flow, because these purchases will be offset in
the same periods by cash received from the related sales transactions. The
table also excludes unrecognized tax benefits totaling $9.0 billion as of
December 31, 2014, because the Corporation is unable to make reasonably
reliable estimates of the timing of cash settlements with the respective taxing
authorities. Further details on the unrecognized tax benefits can be found in
Note 19, Income, Sales-Based and Other Taxes.    

   Notes:    

    (1)   Includes capitalized lease
obligations of $375 million.     

    (2)   The amount due in one year is
included in notes and loans payable of $17,468 million.     

    (3)   The fair value of asset retirement
obligations, primarily upstream asset removal costs at the completion of field
life.     

    (4)   The amount by which the benefit
obligations exceeded the fair value of fund assets for certain U.S. and
non-U.S. pension and other postretirement plans at year end. The payments by
period include expected contributions to funded pension plans in 2015 and
estimated benefit payments for unfunded plans in all years.     

    (5)   Minimum commitments for operating
leases, shown on an undiscounted basis, cover drilling equipment, tankers,
service stations and other properties.     

    (6)   Unconditional purchase obligations
(UPOs) are those long-term commitments that are noncancelable or cancelable
only under certain conditions, and that third parties have used to secure
financing for the facilities that will provide the contracted goods or
services. The undiscounted obligations of $1,095 million mainly pertain to
pipeline throughput agreements and include $433 million of obligations to
equity companies.     

    (7)   Take-or-pay obligations are
noncancelable, long-term commitments for goods and services other than UPOs.
The undiscounted obligations of $27,709 million mainly pertain to pipeline,
manufacturing supply and terminal agreements.     

    (8)   Firm commitments related to capital
projects, shown on an undiscounted basis, totaled approximately $25.6 billion.
These commitments were primarily associated with Upstream projects outside the
U.S., of which $13.9 billion was associated with projects in Africa, Canada, Australia,
United Arab Emirates, Malaysia and Kazakhstan. The Corporation expects to fund
the majority of these projects with i      nternally generated funds, supplemented by long-term and
short-term debt.    

51       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

Guarantees     

   The
Corporation and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries were contingently
liable at December 31, 2014, for guarantees relating to notes, loans and
performance under contracts (Note 16). Where guarantees for environmental
remediation and other similar matters do not include a stated cap, the amounts
reflect management s estimate of the maximum potential exposure. These guarantees
are not reasonably likely to have a material effect on the Corporation s
financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses,
results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.    

Financial Strength     

   On
December 31, 2014, the Corporation s unused short-term committed lines of credit
totaled approximately $6.3 billion (Note 6) and unused long-term committed lines
of credit totaled approximately $0.5 billion (Note 14). The table below shows
the Corporation s fixed-charge coverage and consolidated debt-to-capital
ratios. The data demonstrate the Corporation s creditworthiness.    

Management
views the Corporation s financial strength, as evidenced by the above financial
ratios and other similar measures, to be a competitive advantage of strategic
importance. The Corporation s sound financial position gives it the opportunity
to access the world s capital markets in the full range of market conditions,
and enables the Corporation to take on large, long-term capital commitments in
the pursuit of maximizing shareholder value.    

Litigation and Other Contingencies     

   As
discussed in Note 16, a variety of claims have been made against ExxonMobil and
certain of its consolidated subsidiaries in a number of pending lawsuits. Based
on a consideration of all relevant facts and circumstances, the Corporation
does not believe the ultimate outcome of any currently pending lawsuit against
ExxonMobil will have a material adverse effect upon the Corporation s
operations, financial condition, or financial statements taken as a whole.
There are no events or uncertainties beyond those already included in reported
financial information that would indicate a material change in future operating
results or financial condition. Refer to Note 16 for additional information on
legal proceedings and other contingencies.    

52       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

Capital
and exploration expenditures in 2014 were $38.5 billion, down 9 percent from
2013 due primarily to the absence of the $3.1 billion Celtic Exploration Ltd.
acquisition in 2013. The Corporation anticipates an average investment profile
of about $34 billion per year for the next few years. Actual spending could
vary depending on the progress of individual projects and property
acquisitions.   

   Upstream spending of $32.7 billion in 2014 was down 14
percent from 2013, reflecting the absence of $4.2 billion of property
acquisition costs in 2013. Investments in 2014 included projects in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico, U.S. onshore drilling, exploration in Russia and continued
progress on world-class projects in Canada and Australia. The majority of
expenditures are on development projects, which typically take two to four
years from the time of recording proved undeveloped reserves to the start of
production. The percentage of proved developed reserves was 65 percent of total
proved reserves at year-end 2014, and has been over 60 percent for the last ten
years, indicating that proved reserves are consistently moved from undeveloped
to developed status.   

   Capital investments in the Downstream totaled $3.0 billion
in 2014, an increase of $0.6 billion from 2013, mainly reflecting higher spending
on crude oil transportation infrastructure. The Chemical capital expenditures
of $2.7 billion increased $0.9 billion from 2013 with higher investments in the
U.S.   

2014     

   Income,
sales-based and all other taxes and duties totaled $82.9 billion in 2014, a
decrease of $8.4 billion or 9 percent from 2013. Income tax expense, both
current and deferred, was $18.0 billion, $6.2 billion lower than 2013, as a
result of a lower effective tax rate. The effective tax rate was 41 percent
compared to 48 percent in the prior year due primarily to impacts related to
the Corporation s asset management program and favorable U.S. deferred tax
items. Sales-based and all other taxes and duties of $64.9 billion in 2014
decreased $2.1 billion.   

2013     

   Income,
sales-based and all other taxes and duties totaled $91.2 billion in 2013, a
decrease of $11.1 billion or 11 percent from 2012. Income tax expense, both
current and deferred, was $24.3 billion, $6.8 billion lower than 2012, with the
impact of lower earnings partially offset by the higher effective tax rate. The
effective tax rate was 48 percent compared to 44 percent in the prior year due
to the absence of favorable tax impacts on divestments. Sales-based and all
other taxes and duties of $67.0 billion in 2013 decreased $4.3 billion
reflecting the 2012 Japan restructuring.    

53       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS    

Throughout
ExxonMobil s businesses, new and ongoing measures are taken to prevent and
minimize the impact of our operations on air, water and ground. These
include a significant investment in refining infrastructure and technology to
manufacture clean fuels, as well as projects to monitor and reduce
nitrogen oxide, sulfur oxide and greenhouse gas emissions, and expenditures for
asset retirement obligations. Using definitions and guidelines established by
the American Petroleum Institute, ExxonMobil s 2014 worldwide environmental
expenditures for all such preventative and remediation steps, including
ExxonMobil s share of equity company expenditures, were about
$6.2 billion. The total cost for such activities is expected to
remain in this range in 2015 and 2016 (with capital expenditures approximately
40 percent of the total).    

Environmental Liabilities     

   The
Corporation accrues environmental liabilities when it is probable that
obligations have been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated.
This policy applies to assets or businesses currently owned or previously
disposed. ExxonMobil has accrued liabilities for probable environmental
remediation obligations at various sites, including multiparty sites where the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has identified ExxonMobil as one of the
potentially responsible parties. The involvement of other financially
responsible companies at these multiparty sites could mitigate ExxonMobil s
actual joint and several liability exposure. At present, no individual site is
expected to have losses material to ExxonMobil s operations or financial
condition. Consolidated company provisions made in 2014 for environmental
liabilities were $780 million ($321 million in 2013) and the balance
sheet reflects accumulated liabilities of $1,066 million as of
December 31, 2014, and $773 million as of December 31, 2013.    

MARKET RISKS, INFLATION AND OTHER
UNCERTAINTIES     

Crude
oil, natural gas, petroleum product and chemical prices have fluctuated in
response to changing market forces. The impacts of these price fluctuations on
earnings from Upstream, Downstream and Chemical operations have varied. In the
Upstream, a $1 per barrel change in the weighted-average realized price
of oil would have approximately a $350 million annual after-tax effect on
Upstream consolidated plus equity company earnings. Similarly, a $0.10 per kcf
change in the worldwide average gas realization would have approximately a $175
million annual after-tax effect on Upstream consolidated plus equity company
earnings. For any given period, the extent of actual benefit or detriment will
be dependent on the price movements of individual types of crude oil, taxes and
other government take impacts, price adjustment lags in long-term gas
contracts, and crude and gas production volumes. Accordingly, changes in
benchmark prices for crude oil and natural gas only provide broad indicators of
changes in the earnings experienced in any particular period.    

   In the very competitive downstream and chemical
environments, earnings are primarily determined by margin capture rather than
absolute price levels of products sold. Refining margins are a function of the
difference between what a refiner pays for its raw materials (primarily crude
oil) and the market prices for the range of products produced. These prices in
turn depend on global and regional supply/demand balances, inventory levels,
refinery operations, import/export balances and weather.    

54       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

The global energy markets can give rise to extended periods in
which market conditions are adverse to one or more of the Corporation s
businesses. Such conditions, along with the capital-intensive nature of the
industry and very long lead times associated with many of our projects,
underscore the importance of maintaining a strong financial position.
Management views the Corporation s financial strength as a competitive
advantage.    

   In general, segment results are not dependent on the
ability to sell and/or purchase products to/from other segments. Instead, where
such sales take place, they are the result of efficiencies and competitive
advantages of integrated refinery/chemical complexes. Additionally,
intersegment sales are at market-based prices. The products bought and sold
between segments can also be acquired in worldwide markets that have
substantial liquidity, capacity and transportation capabilities. About 35
percent of the Corporation s intersegment sales represent Upstream production
sold to the Downstream. Other intersegment sales include those between
refineries and chemical plants related to raw materials, feedstocks and
finished products.    

   Although price levels of crude oil and natural gas may rise
or fall significantly over the short to medium term due to political events,
OPEC actions and other factors, industry economics over the long term will
continue to be driven by market supply and demand. Accordingly, the Corporation
evaluates the viability of all of its investments over a broad range of future
prices. The Corporation s assessment is that its operations will continue to be
successful in a variety of market conditions. This is the outcome of
disciplined investment and asset management programs.    

   The Corporation has an active asset management program in
which underperforming assets are either improved to acceptable levels or
considered for divestment. The asset management program includes a disciplined,
regular review to ensure that all assets are contributing to the Corporation s
strategic objectives. The result is an efficient capital base, and the
Corporation has seldom had to write down the carrying value of assets, even
during periods of low commodity prices.    

Risk Management     

   The
Corporation s size, strong capital structure, geographic diversity and the
complementary nature of the Upstream, Downstream and Chemical businesses reduce
the Corporation s enterprise-wide risk from changes in interest rates, currency
rates and commodity prices. As a result, the Corporation makes limited use of
derivative instruments to mitigate the impact of such changes. With respect to
derivatives activities, the Corporation believes that there are no material
market or credit risks to the Corporation s financial position, results of
operations or liquidity as a result of the derivatives described in Note 13.
The Corporation does not engage in speculative derivative activities or
derivative trading activities nor does it use derivatives with leveraged
features. Credit risk associated with the Corporation s derivative position is
mitigated by several factors, including the use of derivative clearing exchanges
and the quality of and financial limits placed on derivative counterparties.
The Corporation maintains a system of controls that includes the authorization,
reporting and monitoring of derivative activity.    

   The Corporation is exposed to changes in interest rates,
primarily on its short-term debt and the portion of long-term debt that carries
floating interest rates. The impact of a 100-basis-point change in interest
rates affecting the Corporation s debt would not be material to earnings, cash
flow or fair value. The Corporation has access to significant capacity of
long-term and short-term liquidity. Internally generated funds are expected to
cover the majority of financial requirements, supplemented by long-term and
short-term debt. Some joint-venture partners are dependent on the credit
markets, and their funding ability may impact the development pace of
joint-venture projects.    

   The Corporation conducts business in many foreign
currencies and is subject to exchange rate risk on cash flows related to sales,
expenses, financing and investment transactions. The impacts of fluctuations in
exchange rates on ExxonMobil s geographically and functionally diverse
operations are varied and often offsetting in amount. The Corporation makes
limited use of currency exchange contracts to mitigate the impact of changes in
currency values, and exposures related to the Corporation s limited use of the
currency exchange contracts are not material.    

Inflation and Other Uncertainties     

   The general
rate of inflation in many major countries of operation has remained moderate
over the past few years, and the associated impact on non-energy costs has
generally been mitigated by cost reductions from efficiency and productivity
improvements. Increased demand for certain services and materials has resulted
in higher operating and capital costs in recent years. The Corporation works to
minimize costs in all commodity price environments through its economies of
scale in global procurement and its efficient project management practices.    

55       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

RECENTLY
ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS     

   In
May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued a new standard,    Revenue
from Contracts with Customers   . The standard establishes a single revenue
recognition model for all contracts with customers, eliminates industry
specific requirements, and expands disclosure requirements. The standard is
required to be adopted beginning January 1, 2017. ExxonMobil is evaluating the
standard and its effect on the Corporation s financial statements.    

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES     

   The
Corporation s accounting and financial reporting fairly reflect its
straightforward business model involving the extracting, refining and marketing
of hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon-based products. The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
(GAAP) requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Corporation s accounting
policies are summarized in Note 1.    

Oil and Gas Reserves     

   Evaluations
of oil and gas reserves are important to the effective management of upstream
assets. They are an integral part of investment decisions about oil and gas
properties such as whether development should proceed. Oil and gas reserve
quantities are also used as the basis to calculate unit-of-production
depreciation rates and to evaluate impairment.    

   Oil and gas reserves include both proved and unproved
reserves. Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities of oil and gas which,
by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with
reasonable certainty to be economically producible. Unproved reserves are those
with less than reasonable certainty of recoverability and include probable
reserves. Probable reserves are reserves that are more likely to be recovered
than not.    

   The estimation of proved reserves is an ongoing process
based on rigorous technical evaluations, commercial and market assessment, and
detailed analysis of well information such as flow rates and reservoir pressure
declines. The estimation of proved reserves is controlled by the Corporation
through long-standing approval guidelines. Reserve changes are made within a
well-established, disciplined process driven by senior level geoscience and
engineering professionals, assisted by the Reserves Technical Oversight group
which has significant technical experience, culminating in reviews with and
approval by senior management. Notably, the Corporation does not use specific quantitative
reserve targets to determine compensation. Key features of the reserve
estimation process are covered in Disclosure of Reserves in Item 2.    

   Although the Corporation is reasonably certain that proved
reserves will be produced, the timing and amount recovered can be affected by a
number of factors including completion of development projects, reservoir
performance, regulatory approvals and significant changes in long-term oil and
gas price levels.    

   Proved reserves can be further subdivided into developed
and undeveloped reserves. The percentage of proved developed reserves was 65
percent of total proved reserves at year-end 2014 (including both consolidated
and equity company reserves), and has been over 60 percent for the last ten
years, indicating that proved reserves are consistently moved from undeveloped
to developed status.    

   Revisions can include upward or downward changes in
previously estimated volumes of proved reserves for existing fields due to the
evaluation or re-evaluation of (1) already available geologic, reservoir
or production data, (2) new geologic, reservoir or production data or
(3) changes in prices and year-end costs that are used in the estimation
of reserves. Revisions can also result from significant changes in development
strategy or production equipment/facility capacity.    

    Impact
of Oil and Gas Reserves on Depreciation.      The calculation of unit-of-production depreciation is a critical
accounting estimate that measures the depreciation of upstream assets. It is
the ratio of actual volumes produced to total proved reserves or proved
developed reserves (those proved reserves recoverable through existing wells
with existing equipment and operating methods), applied to the asset cost. The
volumes produced and asset cost are known and, while proved reserves have a
high probability of recoverability, they are based on estimates that are
subject to some variability. While the revisions the Corporation has made in
the past are an indicator of variability, they have had a very small impact on
the unit-of-production rates because they have been small compared to the large
reserves base.    

    Impact
of Oil and Gas Reserves and Prices on Testing for Impairment.      Proved oil and gas properties held and
used by the Corporation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or
circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Assets
are grouped at the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows
that are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets.    

   The Corporation estimates the future undiscounted cash
flows of the affected properties to judge the recoverability of carrying
amounts. Impairment analyses are generally based on proved reserves. Where
probable reserves exist, an appropriately risk-      

56       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

adjusted
amount of these reserves may be included in the impairment evaluation. An asset
group would be impaired if its undiscounted cash flows were less than the
asset s carrying value. Impairments are measured by the amount by which the
carrying value exceeds fair value.    

   Significant unproved properties are assessed for impairment
individually, and valuation allowances against the capitalized costs are
recorded based on the estimated economic chance of success and the length of
time that the Corporation expects to hold the properties. Properties that are
not individually significant are aggregated by groups and amortized based on
development risk and average holding period.    

   The Corporation performs asset valuation analyses on an
ongoing basis as a part of its asset management program. These analyses assist
the Corporation in assessing whether the carrying amounts of any of its assets
may not be recoverable. In addition to estimating oil and gas reserve volumes
in conducting these analyses, it is also necessary to estimate future oil and
gas prices. Potential trigger events for impairment evaluation include a
significant decrease in current and projected reserve volumes, an accumulation
of project costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected, and
current period operating losses combined with a history and forecast of operating
or cash flow losses.    

   In general, the Corporation does not view temporarily low prices
or margins as a trigger event for conducting the impairment tests. The markets
for crude oil and natural gas have a history of significant price volatility.
Although prices will occasionally drop significantly, industry prices over the
long term will continue to be driven by market supply and demand. On the supply
side, industry production from mature fields is declining, but this is being
offset by production from new discoveries and field developments. OPEC
production policies also have an impact on world oil supplies. The demand side
is largely a function of global economic growth. The relative growth/decline in
supply versus demand will determine industry prices over the long term, and
these cannot be accurately predicted.    

   Accordingly, any impairment tests that the Corporation
performs make use of the Corporation s price assumptions developed in the
annual planning and budgeting process for the crude oil and natural gas
markets, petroleum products and chemicals. These are the same price assumptions
that are used for capital investment decisions. Volumes are based on field
production profiles, which are updated annually. Cash flow estimates for impairment
testing exclude the effects of derivative instruments.    

   Supplemental information regarding oil and gas results of
operations, capitalized costs and reserves is provided following the notes to
consolidated financial statements. Future prices used for any impairment tests
will vary from the ones used in the supplemental oil and gas disclosure and
could be lower or higher for any given year.    

Asset Retirement Obligations     

   The
Corporation incurs retirement obligations for certain assets. The fair values
of these obligations are recorded as liabilities on a discounted basis, which
is typically at the time the assets are installed. In the estimation of fair
value, the Corporation uses assumptions and judgments regarding such factors as
the existence of a legal obligation for an asset retirement obligation;
technical assessments of the assets; estimated amounts and timing of
settlements; discount rates; and inflation rates. Asset retirement obligations
are disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.    

Suspended Exploratory Well Costs     

   The
Corporation continues capitalization of exploratory well costs when the well
has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a
producing well and the Corporation is making sufficient progress assessing the
reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. Exploratory
well costs not meeting these criteria are charged to expense. The facts and
circumstances that support continued capitalization of suspended wells at year-end
are disclosed in Note 10 to the financial statements.    

Consolidations     

   The
Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of those subsidiaries
that the Corporation controls. They also include the Corporation s share of the
undivided interest in certain upstream assets, liabilities, revenues and
expenses. Amounts representing the Corporation s interest in the underlying net
assets of other significant entities that it does not control, but over which
it exercises significant influence, are accounted for using the equity method
of accounting.    

   Investments in companies that are partially owned by the
Corporation are integral to the Corporation s operations. In some cases they
serve to balance worldwide risks, and in others they provide the only available
means of entry into a particular market or area of interest. The other parties
who also have an equity interest in these companies are either independent
third parties or host governments that share in the business results according
to their ownership. The Corporation does not invest in these companies in order
to remove liabilities from its balance sheet. In fact, the Corporation has long
been on record supporting an       

57       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

alternative accounting
method that would require each investor to consolidate its share of all assets
and liabilities in these partially-owned companies rather than only its interest
in net equity. This method of accounting for investments in partially-owned
companies is not permitted by U.S. GAAP except where the investments are in the
direct ownership of a share of upstream assets and liabilities. However, for
purposes of calculating return on average capital employed, which is not
covered by U.S. GAAP standards, the Corporation includes its share of debt of
these partially-owned companies in the determination of average capital
employed.    

Pension Benefits     

   The
Corporation and its affiliates sponsor about 100 defined benefit (pension)
plans in over 40 countries. The Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits footnote
(Note 17) provides details on pension obligations, fund assets and pension
expense.    

   Some of these plans (primarily non-U.S.) provide pension
benefits that are paid directly by their sponsoring affiliates out of corporate
cash flow rather than a separate pension fund. Book reserves are established
for these plans because tax conventions and regulatory practices do not
encourage advance funding. The portion of the pension cost attributable to employee
service is expensed as services are rendered. The portion attributable to the
increase in pension obligations due to the passage of time is expensed over the
term of the obligations, which ends when all benefits are paid. The primary
difference in pension expense for unfunded versus funded plans is that pension
expense for funded plans also includes a credit for the expected long-term
return on fund assets.   

   For funded plans, including those in the U.S., pension
obligations are financed in advance through segregated assets or insurance
arrangements. These plans are managed in compliance with the requirements of
governmental authorities and meet or exceed required funding levels as measured
by relevant actuarial and government standards at the mandated measurement
dates. In determining liabilities and required contributions, these standards
often require approaches and assumptions that differ from those used for
accounting purposes.    

   The Corporation will continue to make contributions to
these funded plans as necessary. All defined-benefit pension obligations,
regardless of the funding status of the underlying plans, are fully supported
by the financial strength of the Corporation or the respective sponsoring
affiliate.    

   Pension accounting requires explicit assumptions regarding,
among others, the long-term expected earnings rate on fund assets, the discount
rate for the benefit obligations and the long-term rate for future salary
increases. Pension assumptions are reviewed annually by outside actuaries and
senior management. These assumptions are adjusted as appropriate to reflect
changes in market rates and outlook. The long-term expected earnings rate on
U.S. pension plan assets in 2014 was 7.25 percent. The 10 year and 20 year
actual returns on U.S. pension plan assets were 7 percent and 10 percent,
respectively. The Corporation establishes the long-term expected rate of return
by developing a forward-looking, long-term return assumption for each pension
fund asset class, taking into account factors such as the expected real return
for the specific asset class and inflation. A single, long-term rate of return
is then calculated as the weighted average of the target asset allocation
percentages and the long-term return assumption for each asset class. A
worldwide reduction of 0.5 percent in the long-term rate of return on assets
would increase annual pension expense by approximately $170 million before tax.

Differences between actual returns on fund assets and the
long-term expected return are not recognized in pension expense in the year
that the difference occurs. Such differences are deferred, along with other
actuarial gains and losses, and are amortized into pension expense over the
expected remaining service life of employees.    

Litigation Contingencies     

   A
variety of claims have been made against the Corporation and certain of its
consolidated subsidiaries in a number of pending lawsuits. Management has
regular litigation reviews, including updates from corporate and outside
counsel, to assess the need for accounting recognition or disclosure of these
contingencies. The status of significant claims is summarized in Note 16.    

   The Corporation accrues an undiscounted liability for those
contingencies where the incurrence of a loss is probable, and the amount can be
reasonably estimated. These amounts are not reduced by amounts that may be
recovered under insurance or claims against third parties, but undiscounted
receivables from insurers or other third parties may be accrued separately. The
Corporation revises such accruals in light of new information. For
contingencies where an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible and which are
significant, the Corporation discloses the nature of the contingency and, where
feasible, an estimate of the possible loss. For purposes of our litigation
contingency disclosures,  significant  includes material matters as well as
other items which management believes should be disclosed.    

   Management judgment is required related to contingent
liabilities and the outcome of litigation because both are difficult to predict.
However, the Corporation has been successful in defending litigation in the
past. Payments have not had a material       

58       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

adverse effect
on operations or financial condition. In the Corporation s experience, large
claims often do not result in large awards. Large awards are often reversed or
substantially reduced as a result of appeal or settlement.    

Tax Contingencies     

   The
Corporation is subject to income taxation in many jurisdictions around the
world. Significant management judgment is required in the accounting for income
tax contingencies and tax disputes because the outcomes are often difficult to
predict.    

   The benefits of
uncertain tax positions that the Corporation has taken or expects to take in
its income tax returns are recognized in the financial statements if management
concludes that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained
with the tax authorities. For a position that is likely to be sustained, the
benefit recognized in the financial statements is measured at the largest
amount that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized. A reserve is
established for the difference between a position taken or expected to be taken
in an income tax return and the amount recognized in the financial statements.
The Corporation s unrecognized tax benefits and a description of open tax years
are summarized in Note 19.   

Foreign Currency Translation     

   The
method of translating the foreign currency financial statements of the
Corporation s international subsidiaries into U.S. dollars is prescribed by
GAAP. Under these principles, it is necessary to select the functional currency
of these subsidiaries. The functional currency is the currency of the primary
economic environment in which the subsidiary operates. Management selects the
functional currency after evaluating this economic environment.    

   Factors considered by management when determining the
functional currency for a subsidiary include the currency used for cash flows
related to individual assets and liabilities; the responsiveness of sales
prices to changes in exchange rates; the history of inflation in the country;
whether sales are into local markets or exported; the currency used to acquire
raw materials, labor, services and supplies; sources of financing; and
significance of intercompany transactions.   

59       

MANAGEMENT S
REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING    

Management, including the
Corporation s Chief Executive Officer, Principal Financial Officer, and Principal
Accounting Officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over the Corporation s financial reporting. Management
conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting based on criteria established in    Internal Control  
Integrated Framework (2013)    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management
concluded that Exxon Mobil Corporation s internal control over financial
reporting was effective as of December 31, 2014.   

  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, audited the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, as stated in
their report included in the Financial Section of this report.   

Rex W. Tillerson  
    Chief
  Executive Officer  

Andrew P. Swiger  
    Senior Vice President  
    (Principal
  Financial Officer)  

David S. Rosenthal  
    Vice President and Controller  
    (Principal
  Accounting Officer)  

60       

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM      

To the Shareholders of Exxon
Mobil Corporation:    

   In our opinion, the accompanying Consolidated Balance
Sheets and the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income,
Changes in Equity and Cash Flows present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Exxon Mobil Corporation and its subsidiaries at
December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the results of their operations and their
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2014
in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America. Also in our opinion, the Corporation maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2014, based on criteria established in    Internal Control  
Integrated Framework (2013)    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Corporation s management
is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.
Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on
the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting based on our
integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining,
on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed
risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinions.    

   A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.    

   /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP    

   Dallas, Texas    

   February 25, 2015    

61       

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENT OF INCOME       

(1)   Sales and other operating revenue
includes sales-based taxes of $29,342 million for 2014, $30,589 million for 2013
and $32,409 million for 2012.    

The
information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral
part of these statements.     

62       

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE
INCOME    

The
information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral
part of these statements.     

63       

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET      

The
information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral
part of these statements.     

64       

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS         

The
information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral
part of these statements.     

65       

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN
EQUITY      

The
information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral
part of these statements.     

66       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The accompanying consolidated financial
statements and the supporting and supplemental material are the responsibility
of the management of Exxon Mobil Corporation.    

   The Corporation s principal business is energy, involving
the worldwide exploration, production, transportation and sale of crude oil and
natural gas (Upstream) and the manufacture, transportation and sale of
petroleum products (Downstream). The Corporation is also a major worldwide
manufacturer and marketer of petrochemicals (Chemical).    

   The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) requires management to
make estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Actual results could differ from these estimates. Prior years  data has been
reclassified in certain cases to conform to the 2014 presentation basis.    

1. Summary of Accounting Policies     

      Principles of Consolidation.      The Consolidated Financial Statements
include the accounts of subsidiaries the Corporation controls. They also
include the Corporation s share of the undivided interest in certain upstream
assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.    

   Amounts representing the Corporation s interest in entities
that it does not control, but over which it exercises significant influence,
are included in  Investments, advances and long-term receivables.  The
Corporation s share of the net income of these companies is included in the
Consolidated Statement of Income caption  Income from equity affiliates.     

   Majority ownership is normally the indicator of control
that is the basis on which subsidiaries are consolidated. However, certain
factors may indicate that a majority-owned investment is not controlled and
therefore should be accounted for using the equity method of accounting. These
factors occur where the minority shareholders are granted by law or by contract
substantive participating rights. These include the right to approve operating
policies, expense budgets, financing and investment plans, and management
compensation and succession plans.    

   The Corporation s share of the cumulative foreign exchange
translation adjustment for equity method investments is reported in Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Income.    

   Evidence of loss in value that might indicate impairment of
investments in companies accounted for on the equity method is assessed to
determine if such evidence represents a loss in value of the Corporation s
investment that is other than temporary. Examples of key indicators include a
history of operating losses, negative earnings and cash flow outlook,
significant downward revisions to oil and gas reserves, and the financial
condition and prospects for the investee s business segment or geographic
region. If evidence of an other than temporary loss in fair value below
carrying amount is determined, an impairment is recognized. In the absence of
market prices for the investment, discounted cash flows are used to assess fair
value.    

        Revenue Recognition.      The Corporation generally sells crude oil, natural gas and
petroleum and chemical products under short-term agreements at prevailing
market prices. In some cases (e.g., natural gas), products may be sold under
long-term agreements, with periodic price adjustments. Revenues are recognized
when the products are delivered, which occurs when the customer has taken title
and has assumed the risks and rewards of ownership, prices are fixed or
determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured.    

   Revenues from the production of natural gas properties in
which the Corporation has an interest with other producers are recognized on
the basis of the Corporation s net working interest. Differences between actual
production and net working interest volumes are not significant.    

   Purchases and sales of inventory with the same counterparty
that are entered into in contemplation of one another are combined and recorded
as exchanges measured at the book value of the item sold.    

        Sales-Based Taxes.      The Corporation reports sales, excise and value-added taxes on
sales transactions on a gross basis in the Consolidated Statement of Income
(included in both revenues and costs).    

        Derivative Instruments.      The Corporation makes limited use of derivative
instruments. The Corporation does not engage in speculative derivative
activities or derivative trading activities, nor does it use derivatives with
leveraged features. When the Corporation does enter into derivative
transactions, it is to offset exposures associated with interest rates, foreign
currency exchange rates and hydrocarbon prices that arise from existing assets,
liabilities and forecasted transactions.    

   The gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair
value of derivatives are recorded in income. In some cases, the Corporation
designates derivatives as fair value hedges, in which case the gains and losses
are offset in income by the gains and losses arising from changes in the fair
value of the underlying hedged item.    

        Fair Value.      Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or
paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants. Hierarchy Levels 1, 2 and 3 are terms for the priority of inputs
to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Hierarchy Level 1 inputs
are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Hierarchy       

67       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Level 2 inputs are inputs other than
quoted prices included within Level 1 that are directly or indirectly
observable for the asset or liability. Hierarchy Level 3 inputs are inputs
that are not observable in the market    .   

        Inventories.      Crude oil, products and merchandise inventories are carried at the
lower of current market value or cost (generally determined under the last-in,
first-out method   LIFO). Inventory costs include expenditures and other
charges (including depreciation) directly and indirectly incurred in bringing
the inventory to its existing condition and location. Selling expenses and
general and administrative expenses are reported as period costs and excluded
from inventory cost. Inventories of materials and supplies are valued at cost
or less.    

        Property, Plant and Equipment.      Depreciation, depletion and amortization,
based on cost less estimated salvage value of the asset, are primarily
determined under either the unit-of-production method or the straight-line
method, which is based on estimated asset service life taking obsolescence into
consideration. Maintenance and repairs, including planned major maintenance,
are expensed as incurred. Major renewals and improvements are capitalized and
the assets replaced are retired.    

   The Corporation uses the  successful efforts  method to
account for its exploration and production activities. Under this method, costs
are accumulated on a field-by-field basis. Costs incurred to purchase, lease,
or otherwise acquire a property (whether unproved or proved) are capitalized
when incurred. Exploratory well costs are carried as an asset when the well has
found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a
producing well and where the Corporation is making sufficient progress
assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project.
Exploratory well costs not meeting these criteria are charged to expense. Other
exploratory expenditures, including geophysical costs and annual lease rentals,
are expensed as incurred. Development costs including costs of productive wells
and development dry holes are capitalized.    

   Acquisition costs of proved properties are amortized using
a unit-of-production method, computed on the basis of total proved oil and gas
reserves. Capitalized exploratory drilling and development costs associated
with productive depletable extractive properties are amortized using
unit-of-production rates based on the amount of proved developed reserves of
oil, gas and other minerals that are estimated to be recoverable from existing
facilities using current operating methods. Under the unit-of-production
method, oil and gas volumes are considered produced once they have been
measured through meters at custody transfer or sales transaction points at the
outlet valve on the lease or field storage tank.    

   Production involves lifting the oil and gas to the surface
and gathering, treating, field processing and field storage of the oil and gas.
The production function normally terminates at the outlet valve on the lease or
field production storage tank. Production costs are those incurred to operate
and maintain the Corporation s wells and related equipment and facilities and
are expensed as incurred. They become part of the cost of oil and gas produced.
These costs, sometimes referred to as lifting costs, include such items as
labor costs to operate the wells and related equipment; repair and maintenance
costs on the wells and equipment; materials, supplies and energy costs required
to operate the wells and related equipment; and administrative expenses related
to the production activity.    

   Proved oil and gas properties held and used by the
Corporation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Assets
are grouped at the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows
that are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets.    

   The Corporation estimates the future undiscounted cash
flows of the affected properties to judge the recoverability of carrying
amounts. Cash flows used in impairment evaluations are developed using annually
updated corporate plan investment evaluation assumptions for crude oil and
natural gas commodity prices, refining and chemical margins and foreign
currency exchange rates. Annual volumes are based on field production profiles,
which are also updated annually. Prices for other petroleum and chemical products
are based on corporate plan assumptions developed annually by major region and
also for investment evaluation purposes. Cash flow estimates for impairment
testing exclude derivative instruments.    

   Impairment analyses are generally based on proved reserves.
Where probable reserves exist, an appropriately risk-adjusted amount of these
reserves may be included in the impairment evaluation. An asset group would be
impaired if the undiscounted cash flows were less than its carrying value. Impairments
are measured by the amount the carrying value exceeds fair value.    

   Significant unproved properties are assessed for impairment
individually, and valuation allowances against the capitalized costs are
recorded based on the estimated economic chance of success and the length of
time that the Corporation expects to hold the properties. Properties that are
not individually significant are aggregated by groups and amortized based on
development risk and average holding period. The valuation allowances are
reviewed at least annually.    

   Gains on sales of proved and unproved properties are only
recognized when there is neither uncertainty about the recovery of costs
applicable to any interest retained nor any substantial obligation for future
performance by the Corporation.    

   Losses on properties sold are recognized when incurred or
when the properties are held for sale and the fair value of the properties is
less than the carrying value.   

68       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Interest costs incurred to finance
expenditures during the construction phase of multiyear projects are
capitalized as part of the historical cost of acquiring the constructed assets.
The project construction phase commences with the development of the detailed
engineering design and ends when the constructed assets are ready for their
intended use. Capitalized interest costs are included in property, plant and
equipment and are depreciated over the service life of the related assets.    

        Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities.
     The Corporation
incurs retirement obligations for certain assets. The fair values of these
obligations are recorded as liabilities on a discounted basis, which is
typically at the time the assets are installed. The costs associated with these
liabilities are capitalized as part of the related assets and depreciated. Over
time, the liabilities are accreted for the change in their present value.    

   Liabilities for environmental costs are recorded when it is
probable that obligations have been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably
estimated. These liabilities are not reduced by possible recoveries from third
parties and projected cash expenditures are not discounted.    

        Foreign Currency Translation.      The Corporation selects the functional
reporting currency for its international subsidiaries based on the currency of
the primary economic environment in which each subsidiary operates.    

   Downstream and Chemical operations primarily use the local
currency. However, the U.S. dollar is used in countries with a history of high
inflation (primarily in Latin America) and Singapore, which predominantly sells
into the U.S. dollar export market. Upstream operations which are relatively
self-contained and integrated within a particular country, such as Canada, the
United Kingdom, Norway and continental Europe, use the local currency. Some
Upstream operations, primarily in Asia and Africa, use the U.S. dollar because
they predominantly sell crude and natural gas production into U.S.
dollar-denominated markets.    

   For all operations, gains or losses from remeasuring
foreign currency transactions into the functional currency are included in
income.    

        Stock-Based Payments.      The Corporation awards stock-based compensation to
employees in the form of restricted stock and restricted stock units.
Compensation expense is measured by the price of the stock at the date of grant
and is recognized in income over the requisite service period.        

2. Accounting Changes     

   The
Corporation did not adopt authoritative guidance in 2014 that had a material
impact on the Corporation s financial statements.    

   In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued a new
standard,    Revenue from Contracts with Customers   . The standard
establishes a single revenue recognition model for all contracts with
customers, eliminates industry specific requirements, and expands disclosure
requirements. The standard is required to be adopted beginning January 1, 2017.
ExxonMobil is evaluating the standard and its effect on the Corporation s
financial statements.      

3. Miscellaneous Financial Information     

   Research
and development expenses totaled $971 million in 2014, $1,044 million in 2013
and $1,042 million in 2012.    

   Net income included before-tax aggregate foreign exchange
transaction losses of $225 million, and gains of $155 million and $159 million in
2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.    

   In 2014, 2013 and 2012, net income included gains of $187
million, $282 million and $328 million, respectively, attributable to the
combined effects of LIFO inventory accumulations and drawdowns. The aggregate
replacement cost of inventories was estimated to exceed their LIFO carrying
values by $10.6 billion and $21.2 billion at December 31, 2014, and 2013,
respectively.    

   Crude oil, products and merchandise as of
year-end 2014 and 2013 consist of the following:      

69       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

4.             Other Comprehensive Income Information        

Amounts
  Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other   

Comprehensive
  Income - Before-tax Income/(Expense)   

2014   

2013   

2012   

(millions of dollars)   

Foreign
  exchange translation gain/(loss) included in net income  

(Statement of
  Income line: Other income)  

(152)  

23   

4,352   

Amortization
  and settlement of postretirement benefits reserves  

adjustment
  included in net periodic benefit costs    (1)    

(1,571)  

(2,616)  

(3,621)  

Realized change
  in fair value of stock investments included in net income  

(Statement of
  Income line: Other income)  

(5)  

-    

-    

(1)   These accumulated other comprehensive income components are
included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. (See Note 17  
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits for additional details.)        

70       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

5. Cash Flow Information     

   The
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows provides information about changes in cash
and cash equivalents. Highly liquid investments with maturities of three months
or less when acquired are classified as cash equivalents.    

   For 2014, the  Net (gain) on asset sales  on the
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows includes before-tax gains from the sale of
Hong Kong power operations, additional proceeds related to the 2013 sale of a
partial interest in Iraq, the sale of Downstream affiliates in the Caribbean
and the sale or exchange of Upstream properties in the U.S., Canada, and
Malaysia. For 2013, the amount includes before-tax gains from the sale of a
partial interest in Iraq, the sale of Downstream affiliates in the Caribbean
and the sale of service stations. For 2012, the amount includes before-tax
gains related to the Japan restructuring, the sale of an Upstream property in
Angola, exchanges of Upstream properties, the sale of U.S. service stations and
the sale of Downstream affiliates in Malaysia and Switzerland. These gains are
reported in  Other income  on the Consolidated Statement of Income.   

   In 2014, ExxonMobil completed asset exchanges, primarily
non-cash transactions, of approximately $1.2 billion. This amount is not
included in the  Sales of subsidiaries, investments, and property, plant and
equipment  or the  Additions to property, plant and equipment  lines on the
Statement of Cash Flows.   

   In 2012, the Corporation s interest in a cost company was
redeemed. As part of the redemption, a variable note due in 2035 issued by
Mobil Services (Bahamas) Ltd. was assigned to a consolidated ExxonMobil
affiliate. This note is no longer classified as third party long-term debt.
This assignment did not result in a  Reduction in long-term debt  on the
Statement of Cash Flows.   

   In 2012, ExxonMobil completed asset exchanges, primarily
noncash transactions, of approximately $1 billion. This amount is not included
in the  Sales of subsidiaries, investments, and property, plant and equipment 
or the  Additions to property, plant and equipment  lines on the Statement of
Cash Flows.     

6. Additional Working Capital Information       

The Corporation has short-term committed
lines of credit of $6.3 billion which were unused as of December 31, 2014. These
lines are available for general corporate purposes      .      

   The weighted-average interest rate on short-term borrowings
outstanding was 0.3 percent and 0.4 percent at December 31, 2014, and 2013,
respectively.      

71       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

7. Equity Company Information     

   The
summarized financial information below includes amounts related to certain
less-than-majority-owned companies and majority-owned subsidiaries where
minority shareholders possess the right to participate in significant
management decisions (see Note 1). These companies are primarily engaged in oil
and gas exploration and production, natural gas marketing, and refining
operations in North America; natural gas exploration, production and
distribution, and downstream operations in Europe; and exploration, production,
liquefied natural gas (LNG) operations, refining operations, petrochemical
manufacturing, and fuel sales in Asia. Also included are several refining,
petrochemical manufacturing, and marketing ventures.    

   The Corporation s ownership in these ventures is in
the form of shares in corporate joint ventures as well as interests in
partnerships. Differences between the company s carrying value of an equity
investment and its underlying equity in the net assets of the affiliate are
assigned to the extent practicable to specific assets and liabilities based on
the company s analysis of the factors giving rise to the difference. The
amortization of this difference, as appropriate, is included in  income from
equity affiliates.     

   The share of total equity company revenues from sales
to ExxonMobil consolidated companies was 14 percent, 13 percent and 16 percent
in the years 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

   In 2013 and 2014, the Corporation and Rosneft established
various entities to conduct exploration and research activities. Periods of
disproportionate funding will result in the Corporation recognizing, during the
early phases of the projects, an investment that is larger than its equity
share in these entities. These joint ventures are considered Variable Interest
Entities. However, since the Corporation is not the primary beneficiary of
these entities, the joint ventures are reported as equity companies. In 2014,
the European Union and United States imposed sanctions relating to the Russian
energy sector. In compliance with the sanctions and all general and specific
licenses, prohibited activities involving offshore Russia in the Black Sea,
Arctic regions, and onshore western Siberia have been wound down. The
Corporation's maximum exposure to loss from these joint ventures as of December
31, 2014, is $1.0 billion.     

72       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A list of
significant equity companies as of December 31, 201  4,
together with the Corporation s percentage ownership interest, is detailed
below:       

Percentage   

Ownership   

Interest   

Upstream   

Aera Energy LLC  

48  

BEB Erdgas und
  Erdoel GmbH   Co. KG  

50  

Cameroon Oil
  Transportation Company S.A.  

41  

Cross Timbers
  Energy, LLC  

50  

Golden Pass LNG
  Terminal LLC  

18  

Karmorneftegaz
  Holding SARL  

33  

Marine Well
  Containment Company LLC  

10  

Nederlandse
  Aardolie Maatschappij B.V.  

50  

Qatar Liquefied
  Gas Company Limited  

10  

Qatar Liquefied
  Gas Company Limited (2)  

24  

Ras Laffan
  Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited  

25  

Ras Laffan
  Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (II)  

31  

Ras Laffan
  Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (3)  

30  

South Hook LNG
  Terminal Company Limited  

24  

Tengizchevroil,
  LLP  

25  

Terminale GNL
  Adriatico S.r.l.  

71  

Downstream   

Chalmette
  Refining, LLC  

50   

Fujian Refining
    Petrochemical Co. Ltd.  

25  

Saudi Aramco
  Mobil Refinery Company Ltd.  

50  

Chemical   

Al-Jubail
  Petrochemical Company  

50  

Infineum
  Holdings B.V.  

50  

Infineum USA
  L.P.  

50  

Saudi Yanbu
  Petrochemical Co.  

50  

8. Investments, Advances and Long-Term
Receivables      

73       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

9. Property, Plant and Equipment and Asset
Retirement Obligations       

In the Upstream segment, depreciation is
generally on a unit-of-production basis, so depreciable life will vary by
field. In the Downstream segment, investments in refinery and lubes basestock
manufacturing facilities are generally depreciated on a straight-line basis
over a 25-year life and service station buildings and fixed improvements over a
20-year life. In the Chemical segment, investments in process equipment are
generally depreciated on a straight-line basis over a 20-year life.    

   Accumulated depreciation and depletion totaled $194,121
million at the end of 2014 and $190,867 million at the end of 2013. Interest
capitalized in 2014, 2013 and 2012 was $344 million, $309 million and $506
million, respectively.      

Asset Retirement Obligations     

   The
Corporation incurs retirement obligations for certain assets. The fair values
of these obligations are recorded as liabilities on a discounted basis, which
is typically at the time the assets are installed. In the estimation of fair
value, the Corporation uses assumptions and judgments regarding such factors as
the existence of a legal obligation for an asset retirement obligation;
technical assessments of the assets; estimated amounts and timing of
settlements; discount rates; and inflation rates. Asset retirement obligations
incurred in the current period were Level 3 fair value measurements. The costs
associated with these liabilities are capitalized as part of the related assets
and depreciated as the reserves are produced. Over time, the liabilities are
accreted for the change in their present value.    

   Asset retirement obligations for downstream and chemical
facilities generally become firm at the time the facilities are permanently
shut down and dismantled. These obligations may include the costs of asset
disposal and additional soil remediation. However, these sites have
indeterminate lives based on plans for continued operations and as such, the
fair value of the conditional legal obligations cannot be measured, since it is
impossible to estimate the future settlement dates of such obligations.      

       The following table summarizes the
activity in the liability for asset retirement obligations:        

74       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

10. Accounting for Suspended Exploratory
Well Costs     

   The
Corporation continues capitalization of exploratory well costs when the
well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a
producing well and the Corporation is making sufficient progress assessing
the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. The term
 project  as used in this report can refer to a variety of different activities
and does not necessarily have the same meaning as in any government payment
transparency reports.   

   The following two tables provide details of the changes in
the balance of suspended exploratory well costs as well as an aging summary of
those costs.   

   Change
in capitalized suspended exploratory well costs:      

Period end capitalized suspended exploratory well costs:      

Exploration
activity often involves drilling multiple wells, over a number of years, to
fully evaluate a project. The table below provides a numerical breakdown of the
number of projects with suspended exploratory well costs which had their first
capitalized well drilled in the preceding 12 months and those that have had
exploratory well costs capitalized for a period greater than 12 months.      

75       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Of the 53 projects that have exploratory
well costs capitalized for a period greater than 12 months as of December 31,
2014, 15 projects have drilling in the preceding 12 months or exploratory
activity planned in the next two years, while the remaining 38 projects are
those with completed exploratory activity progressing toward development. The
table below provides additional detail for those 38 projects, which total $1,035
million.      

Years  

Dec. 31,  

Wells  

Country/Project  

2014  

Drilled  

Comment  

(millions of
  dollars)   

Angola  

- Kaombo
  Split Hub Phase 2  

20  

2005 - 2006  

Evaluating
  development plan to tie into planned production facilities.  

-
  Perpetua-Zinia-Acacia  

15  

2008 - 2009  

Oil field near
  Pazflor development, awaiting capacity in existing/planned infrastructure.  

Australia  

- East
  Pilchard  

8  

2001  

Gas field near
  Kipper/Tuna development, awaiting capacity in existing/planned  

infrastructure.  

- SE Longtom  

12  

2010   

Gas field near
  Tuna development, awaiting capacity in existing/planned infrastructure.  

- SE Remora  

38  

2010   

Gas field near
  Marlin development, awaiting capacity in existing/planned infrastructure.  

Indonesia  

- Alas Tua
  West  

16  

2010  

Evaluating
  development plan to tie into planned production facilities.  

- Cepu Gas  

28  

2008 - 2011  

Development
  activity under way, while continuing commercial discussions with the  

government.  

- Kedung
  Keris  

11  

2011  

Evaluating
  development plan to tie into planned production facilities.  

- Natuna  

118  

1981 - 1983  

Development
  activity under way, while continuing discussions with the government  

on contract
  terms pursuant to executed Heads of Agreement.  

Kazakhstan  

- Kairan  

53  

2004 - 2007  

Evaluating
  commercialization and field development alternatives, while continuing   

discussions
  with the government regarding the development plan.  

Malaysia  

- Besar  

18  

1992 - 2010  

Gas field off
  the east coast of Malaysia; progressing development plan.  

- Bindu  

2  

1995  

Awaiting
  capacity in existing/planned infrastructure.  

Nigeria  

- Bolia  

15  

2002 - 2006  

Evaluating
  development plan, while continuing discussions with the government  

regarding
  regional hub strategy.  

- Bosi  

79  

2002 - 2006  

Development
  activity under way, while continuing discussions with the government  

regarding
  development plan.  

- Bosi
  Central  

16  

2006  

Development
  activity under way, while continuing discussions with the government  

regarding
  development plan.  

- Erha
  Northeast  

26  

2008  

Evaluating
  development plan for tieback to existing production facilities.  

- Owowo  

50  

2009 - 2012  

Continuing
  discussions with the government regarding contract terms.  

- Pegi  

32  

2009   

Awaiting
  capacity in existing/planned infrastructure.  

- Satellite
  Field  

12  

2013   

Evaluating
  development plan to tie into planned production facilities.  

Development Phase 2  

- Other (4
  projects)  

14  

2002   

Evaluating and
  pursuing development of several additional discoveries.  

Norway  

- Gamma  

15  

2008 - 2009  

Evaluating
  development plan for tieback to existing production facilities.  

- Lavrans  

18  

1995 - 1999  

Evaluating
  development plan, awaiting capacity in existing Kristin production facility.  

- Other (7
  projects)  

29  

2008 - 2013  

Evaluating
  development plans, including potential for tieback to existing production  

facilities.  

Papua New
  Guinea  

- Juha  

28  

2007  

Progressing
  development plans to tie into existing LNG facilities.  

- P'nyang  

58  

2012  

Evaluating
  development alternatives to tie into existing/planned infrastructure.  

Republic of
  Congo  

- Mer Tres
  Profonde Sud  

56  

2000 - 2007  

Evaluating
  development alternatives, while continuing discussions with the government  

regarding
  development plan.  

United Kingdom  

- Phyllis  

8  

2004  

Evaluating
  development plan for tieback to existing production facilities.  

United States  

- Hadrian
  North  

209  

2010 - 2013  

Evaluating
  development plan to tie into existing production facilities.  

- Tip Top  

31  

2009  

Evaluating
  development concept and requisite facility upgrades.  

Total 2014 (38
  projects)  

1,035  

76       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

11. Leased Facilities     

   At
December 31, 2014, the Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries held
noncancelable operating charters and leases covering drilling equipment,
tankers, service stations and other properties with minimum undiscounted lease
commitments totaling $6,213 million as indicated in the table. Estimated
related rental income from noncancelable subleases is $70 million.      

Net rental cost under both cancelable and noncancelable operating
leases incurred during 2014, 2013 and 2012 were as follows:      

12. Earnings Per Share       

(1)   The earnings per common share and earnings per common share
- assuming dilution are the same in each period shown.         

77       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

13. Financial Instruments and Derivatives     

    Financial Instruments.      The fair value of financial instruments
is determined by reference to observable market data and other valuation
techniques as appropriate. The only category of financial instruments where the
difference between fair value and recorded book value is notable is long-term
debt. The estimated fair value of total long-term debt, excluding capitalized
lease obligations, was $11.7 billion and $6.8 billion at December 31, 2014, and
2013, respectively, as compared to recorded book values of $11.3 billion and $6.5
billion at December 31, 2014, and 2013, respectively. The increase in the
estimated fair value and book value of long-term debt reflects the
Corporation s issuance of $5,500 million of long-term debt in the first quarter
of 2014.    

   The fair value of long-term debt by
hierarchy level at December 31, 2014, is: Level 1 $11,036 million; Level 2 $561
million; and Level 3 $63 million.       

      Derivative Instruments.      The Corporation s size, strong capital
structure, geographic diversity and the complementary nature of the Upstream,
Downstream and Chemical businesses reduce the Corporation s enterprise-wide
risk from changes in interest rates, currency rates and commodity prices. As a
result, the Corporation makes limited use of derivatives to mitigate the impact
of such changes. The Corporation does not engage in speculative derivative
activities or derivative trading activities nor does it use derivatives with
leveraged features. When the Corporation does enter into derivative
transactions, it is to offset exposures associated with interest rates, foreign
currency exchange rates and hydrocarbon prices that arise from existing assets,
liabilities and forecasted transactions.     

   The estimated fair value of derivative instruments
outstanding and recorded on the balance sheet was a net asset of $75 million at
year-end 2014 and a net asset of $1 million at year-end 2013. Assets and
liabilities associated with derivatives are usually recorded either in  Other
current assets  or  Accounts payable and accrued liabilities.     

   The Corporation s fair value measurement of its derivative
instruments use either Level 1 or Level 2 inputs.    

   The Corporation recognized a before-tax gain or (loss)
related to derivative instruments of $110 million, $(7) million and $(23) million
during 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Income statement effects associated
with derivatives are usually recorded either in  Sales and other operating
revenue  or  Crude oil and product purchases.      

   The Corporation believes there are no material market or
credit risks to the Corporation s financial position, results of operations or
liquidity as a result of the derivative activities described above.      

78       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

14. Long-Term Debt     

   At December 31,
2014, long-term debt consisted of $11,341 million due in U.S. dollars and $312
million representing the U.S. dollar equivalent at year-end exchange rates of
amounts payable in foreign currencies. These amounts exclude that portion of
long-term debt, totaling $770 million, which matures within one year and is
included in current liabilities. The increase in the book value of long-term
debt reflects the Corporation s issuance of $5,500 million of long-term debt in
the first quarter of 2014. The amounts of long-term debt maturing in each of
the four years after December 31, 2015, in millions of dollars, are: 2016
  $537; 2017   $2,993; 2018   $872; and 2019   $2,353.
At December 31, 2014, the Corporation s unused long-term credit lines were $0.5
billion.   

   Summarized long-term debt at year-end 2014 and 2013 are
shown in the table below:      

(1)   Average effective interest rate of
0.3% in 2014.    

    (2)   Average effective interest rate of
0.4% in 2014.    

    (3)   Includes premiums of $219 million in
2014 and $271 million in 2013.    

    (4)   Average effective interest rate of
4.5% in 2014 and 4.6% in 2013.     

    (5)   Average effective interest rate of 2.4%
in 2014 and 3.3% in 2013.     

    (6)   Average effective interest rate of 0.03%
in 2014 and 0.06% in 2013.     

    (7)   Average effective interest rate of
4.2% in 2014 and 4.4% in 2013.    

    (8)   Average imputed interest rate of 7.0%
in 2014 and 7.8% in 2013.        

79       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

15. Incentive Program     

   The 2003 Incentive Program provides for grants of stock
options, stock appreciation rights (SARs), restricted stock and other forms of
award. Awards may be granted to eligible employees of the Corporation and those
affiliates at least 50 percent owned. Outstanding awards are subject to certain
forfeiture provisions contained in the program or award instrument. Options and
SARs may be granted at prices not less than 100 percent of market value on the
date of grant and have a maximum life of 10 years. The maximum number of shares
of stock that may be issued under the 2003 Incentive Program is 220 million.
Awards that are forfeited, expire or are settled in cash, do not count against
this maximum limit. The 2003 Incentive Program does not have a specified term.
New awards may be made until the available shares are depleted, unless the
Board terminates the plan early. At the end of 2014, remaining shares available
for award under the 2003 Incentive Program were 108     million.

Restricted
Stock and Restricted Stock Units.      Awards totaling 9,775 thousand, 9,729 thousand, and 10,017 thousand
of restricted (nonvested) common stock and restricted (nonvested) common stock
units were granted in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Compensation expense
for these awards is based on the price of the stock at the date of grant and is
recognized in income over the requisite service period. Shares for these awards
are issued to employees from treasury stock. The units that are settled in cash
are recorded as liabilities and their changes in fair value are recognized over
the vesting period. During the applicable restricted periods, the shares and
units may not be sold or transferred and are subject to forfeiture. The
majority of the awards have graded vesting periods, with 50 percent of the
shares and units in each award vesting after three years and the remaining 50
percent vesting after seven years. Awards granted to a small number of senior
executives have vesting periods of five years for 50 percent of the award and
of 10 years or retirement, whichever occurs later, for the remaining 50 percent
of the award.    

   The Corporation has purchased shares in the open market and
through negotiated transactions to offset shares issued in conjunction with
benefit plans and programs. Purchases may be discontinued at any time without
prior notice.   

   The following tables summarize information about restricted
stock and restricted stock units for the year ended December 31, 2014.      

As of December 31, 2014, there was $2,339
million of unrecognized compensation cost related to the nonvested restricted
awards. This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period
of 4.5 years. The compensation cost charged against income for the restricted
stock and restricted stock units was $831 million, $854 million and $854
million for 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The income tax benefit
recognized in income related to this compensation expense was $76 million, $78
million and $79 million for the same periods, respectively. The fair value of
shares and units vested in 2014, 2013 and 2012 was $946 million, $1,040 million
and $926 million, respectively. Cash payments of $73 million, $67 million and $66
million for vested restricted stock units settled in cash were made in 2014,
2013 and 2012, respectively.     

80       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

16. Litigation and Other Contingencies     

    Litigation.
     A variety of claims have
been made against ExxonMobil and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries in a
number of pending lawsuits. Management has regular litigation reviews,
including updates from corporate and outside counsel, to assess the need for
accounting recognition or disclosure of these contingencies. The Corporation
accrues an undiscounted liability for those contingencies where the incurrence
of a loss is probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If a range of
amounts can be reasonably estimated and no amount within the range is a better
estimate than any other amount, then the minimum of the range is accrued. The
Corporation does not record liabilities when the likelihood that the liability
has been incurred is probable but the amount cannot be reasonably estimated or
when the liability is believed to be only reasonably possible or remote. For
contingencies where an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible and which are
significant, the Corporation discloses the nature of the contingency and, where
feasible, an estimate of the possible loss. For purposes of our contingency
disclosures,  significant  includes material matters as well as other matters
which management believes should be disclosed. ExxonMobil will continue to
defend itself vigorously in these matters. Based on a consideration of all
relevant facts and circumstances, the Corporation does not believe the ultimate
outcome of any currently pending lawsuit against ExxonMobil will have a
material adverse effect upon the Corporation s operations, financial condition,
or financial statements taken as a whole.   

    Other
Contingencies.      The Corporation
and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries were contingently liable at
December 31, 2014, for guarantees relating to notes, loans and
performance under contracts. Where guarantees for environmental remediation and
other similar matters do not include a stated cap, the amounts reflect
management s estimate of the maximum potential exposure.      

The debt-related guarantees shown above include a $3.4 billion
completion guarantee provided to lenders in support of the project financing for
the Papua New Guinea Liquefied Natural Gas project. On February 4, 2015, the
obligations under this guarantee were terminated per the terms of the loan
agreement.    

   Additionally,
the Corporation and its affiliates have numerous long-term sales and purchase
commitments in their various business activities, all of which are expected to
be fulfilled with no adverse consequences material to the Corporation s
operations or financial condition. Unconditional purchase obligations as
defined by accounting standards are those long-term commitments that are
noncancelable or cancelable only under certain conditions, and that third
parties have used to secure financing for the facilities that will provide the
contracted goods or services.     

(1)   Undiscounted obligations of $1,095 million mainly pertain to
pipeline throughput agreements and include $433 million of obligations to
equity companies. The present value of these commitments, which excludes
imputed interest of $168 million, totaled $927 million.         

81       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

In accordance with a nationalization
decree issued by Venezuela s president in February 2007, by May 1, 2007, a
subsidiary of the Venezuelan National Oil Company (PdVSA) assumed the operatorship
of the Cerro Negro Heavy Oil Project. This Project had been operated and owned
by ExxonMobil affiliates holding a 41.67 percent ownership interest in the
Project. The decree also required conversion of the Cerro Negro Project into a
 mixed enterprise  and an increase in PdVSA s or one of its affiliate s
ownership interest in the Project, with the stipulation that if ExxonMobil
refused to accept the terms for the formation of the mixed enterprise within a
specified period of time, the government would  directly assume the activities 
carried out by the joint venture. ExxonMobil refused to accede to the terms
proffered by the government, and on June 27, 2007, the government expropriated
ExxonMobil s 41.67 percent interest in the Cerro Negro Project.    

   On September 6,
2007, affiliates of ExxonMobil filed a Request for Arbitration with the
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) invoking
ICSID jurisdiction under Venezuela s Investment Law and the
Netherlands-Venezuela Bilateral Investment Treaty. The ICSID Tribunal issued a
decision on June 10, 2010, finding that it had jurisdiction to proceed on the
basis of the Netherlands-Venezuela Bilateral Investment Treaty. On October 9,
2014, the ICSID Tribunal issued its final award finding in favor of the
ExxonMobil affiliates and awarding $1.6 billion as of the date of
expropriation, June 27, 2007, and interest from that date at 3.25% compounded
annually until the date of payment in full. The Tribunal also noted that one of
the Cerro Negro Project agreements provides a mechanism to prevent double
recovery between the ICSID award and all or part of an earlier award of $908
million to an ExxonMobil affiliate, Mobil Cerro Negro, Ltd., against PdVSA and
a PdVSA affiliate, PdVSA CN, in an arbitration under the rules of the
International Chamber of Commerce (ICC).          Following the favorable ICSID decision in the fourth
quarter of 2014, ExxonMobil recognized earnings of $269 million, net of the
remaining asset value, for the proceeds received from the earlier ICC award.               

   Judgment was
entered on the ICSID award by the United States District Court for the Southern
District of New York on October 10, 2014. A motion to vacate that judgment on
procedural grounds was filed by the Republic of Venezuela on October 14, 2014,
which was denied by the court. Thereafter, the Republic of Venezuela filed a
motion to modify the judgment by reducing the rate of interest to be paid on
the ICSID award from the entry of the court s judgment, until the date of
payment.    

   On October 23,
2014, the Republic of Venezuela filed with ICSID an application to revise the
ICSID award such that it requires repayment of the value of the ICC award to
PdVSA at the same time as payment is made to the ExxonMobil affiliates for the
ICSID award and that provision be made for interest on the amount to be repaid.
Thereafter, pursuant to ICSID arbitration rules, the ICSID award was stayed
pending further action of the Tribunal. On October 27, 2014,
ExxonMobil filed a response with ICSID that contests the application for
revision of that award on both factual and jurisdictional grounds. On February
2, 2015, the Republic of Venezuela filed an application to annul the ICSID
award. The application alleges that, in issuing the ICSID award, the Tribunal
exceeded its powers, failed to state reasons on which the ICSID award was
based, and departed from a fundamental rule of procedure. Upon registration of
the application with ICSID on February 9, 2015, a further stay of the ICSID
award was entered.    

   The federal
court in New York has stayed its judgment until such time as the stays of the
ICSID award entered following the Government of Venezuela s filing of its two
applications have been lifted. The net impact of these matters on the
Corporation s consolidated financial results cannot be reasonably estimated.
Regardless, the Corporation does not expect the resolution to have a material
effect upon the Corporation s operations or financial condition.   

   An affiliate of ExxonMobil is one of the
Contractors under a Production Sharing Contract (PSC) with the Nigerian
National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) covering the Erha block located in the
offshore waters of Nigeria. ExxonMobil's affiliate is the operator of the block
and owns a 56.25 percent interest under the PSC. The Contractors are in dispute
with NNPC regarding NNPC's lifting of crude oil in excess of its entitlement
under the terms of the PSC. In accordance with the terms of the PSC, the
Contractors initiated arbitration in Abuja, Nigeria, under the Nigerian
Arbitration and Conciliation Act. On October 24, 2011, a three-member
arbitral Tribunal issued an award upholding the Contractors' position in all
material respects and awarding damages to the Contractors jointly in an amount
of approximately $1.8 billion plus $234 million in accrued interest. The Contractors
petitioned a Nigerian federal court for enforcement of the award, and NNPC
petitioned the same court to have the award set aside. On May 22, 2012, the
court set aside the award. The Contractors have appealed that judgment. In June
2013, the Contractors filed a lawsuit against NNPC in the Nigerian federal high
court in order to preserve their ability to seek enforcement of the PSC in the
courts if necessary. In October 2014, the Contractors filed suit in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of New York to enforce, if
necessary, the arbitration award against NNPC assets residing within that
jurisdiction. At this time, the net impact of this matter on the Corporation's
consolidated financial results cannot be reasonably estimated. However,
regardless of the outcome of enforcement proceedings, the Corporation does not
expect the proceedings to have a material effect upon the Corporation's
operations or financial condition.     

82       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

17. Pension and Other Postretirement
Benefits     

   The
benefit obligations and plan assets associated with the Corporation s principal
benefit plans are measured on December 31.      

(1)           Benefit
payments for funded and unfunded plans.    

    (2)           For 2014 and 2013, other postretirement benefits paid are
net of $21 million and $20 million of Medicare subsidy receipts, respectively.        

For selection of the discount rate for
U.S. plans, several sources of information are considered, including interest
rate market indicators and the discount rate determined by use of a yield curve
based on high-quality, noncallable bonds with cash flows that match estimated
outflows for benefit payments. For major non-U.S. plans, the discount rate is
determined by using bond portfolios with an average maturity approximating that
of the liabilities or spot yield curves, both of which are constructed
using high-quality, local-currency-denominated bonds.    

   The measurement
of the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation assumes a health care cost
trend rate of 4.5 percent in 2016 and subsequent years. A one-percentage-point
increase in the health care cost trend rate would increase service and interest
cost by $91 million and the postretirement benefit obligation by $1,070
million. A one-percentage-point decrease in the health care cost trend rate
would decrease service and interest cost by $69 million and the postretirement
benefit obligation by $844 million.     

(1)   Benefit payments for funded plans.         

83       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The funding levels of all qualified
pension plans are in compliance with standards set by applicable law or
regulation. As shown in the table below, certain smaller U.S. pension plans and
a number of non-U.S. pension plans are not funded because local tax conventions
and regulatory practices do not encourage funding of these plans. All
defined benefit pension obligations, regardless of the funding status
of the underlying plans, are fully supported by the financial strength
of the Corporation or the respective sponsoring affiliate.      

The authoritative guidance for defined
benefit pension and other postretirement plans requires an employer to
recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit
postretirement plan as an asset or liability in its statement of financial position
and to recognize changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes
occur through other comprehensive income.      

(1)     Fair value of assets less benefit obligation shown on the
preceding page.        

84       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The long-term
expected rate of return on funded assets shown below is established for each
benefit plan by developing a forward-looking, long-term return assumption for
each asset class, taking into account factors such as the expected real
return for the specific asset class and inflation. A single, long-term rate of
return is then calculated as the weighted average of the target asset
allocation percentages and the long-term return assumption for each asset class.     

Costs for defined contribution plans were
$393 million, $392 million and $382 million in 2014, 2013 and 2012,
respectively.      

85       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A summary of
the change in accumulated other comprehensive income is shown in the table
below:        

The Corporation s investment strategy for
benefit plan assets reflects a long-term view, a careful assessment of the
risks inherent in various asset classes and broad diversification to reduce the
risk of the portfolio. The benefit plan assets are primarily invested in
passive equity and fixed income index funds to diversify risk while
minimizing costs. The equity funds hold ExxonMobil stock only to the extent
necessary to replicate the relevant equity index. The fixed income funds are
largely invested in high-quality corporate and government debt securities.    

   Studies are periodically conducted to establish the
preferred target asset allocation percentages. The target asset allocation for
the U.S. benefit plans and for the non-U.S. plans in aggregate is 40 percent
equity securities and 60 percent debt securities. The equity targets for the
U.S. and non-U.S. plans include an allocation to private equity partnerships
that primarily focus on early-stage venture capital of 5 percent and 3 percent,
respectively.    

   The fair value measurement levels are accounting terms that
refer to different methods of valuing assets. The terms do not represent the
relative risk or credit quality of an investment.      

86       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The 2014 fair value of the benefit plan assets, including the
level within the fair value hierarchy, is shown in the tables below:       

(1)   For U.S. and non-U.S. equity securities held in the form of
fund units that are redeemable at the measurement date, the unit value is
treated as a Level 2 input. The fair value of the securities owned by the funds
is based on observable quoted prices on active exchanges, which are Level 1
inputs.    

    (2)   For non-U.S. equity securities held
in separate accounts, fair value is based on observable quoted prices on active
exchanges.     

    (3)   For private equity, fair value is
generally established by using revenue or earnings multiples or other relevant
market data including Initial Public Offerings.     

    (4)   For corporate, government and
asset-backed debt securities, fair value is based on observable inputs of
comparable market transactions.     

    (5)   For corporate and government debt
securities that are traded on active exchanges, fair value is based on
observable quoted prices.     

    (6)   For real estate funds, fair value is
based on appraised values developed using comparable market transactions.     

    (7)   For cash balances held in the form
of short-term fund units that are redeemable at the measurement date, the fair
value is treated as a Level 2 input.    

    (8)   For cash balances that are subject
to withdrawal penalties or other adjustments, the fair value is treated as a
Level 2 input.    

87       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(1)             For U.S. and non-U.S. equity securities held in the
form of fund units that are redeemable at the measurement date, the unit value
is treated as a Level 2 input. The fair value of the securities owned by the funds
is based on observable quoted prices on active exchanges, which are Level 1
inputs.   

   (2)        
    For private equity, fair
value is generally established by using revenue or earnings multiples or other
relevant market data including Initial Public Offerings.    

   (3)        
    For corporate, government
and asset-backed debt securities, fair value is based on observable inputs of
comparable market transactions.        

The change in the fair value in 2014 of Level 3 assets that use
significant unobservable inputs to measure fair value is shown in the table
below:      

88       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The 2013 fair value of the benefit plan
assets, including the level within the fair value hierarchy, is shown in the
tables below:      

(1)   For U.S. and non-U.S. equity securities held in the form of
fund units that are redeemable at the measurement date, the unit value is
treated as a Level 2 input. The fair value of the securities owned by the funds
is based on observable quoted prices on active exchanges, which are Level 1
inputs.     

    (2)   For non-U.S. equity securities held
in separate accounts, fair value is based on observable quoted prices on active
exchanges.     

    (3)   For private equity, fair value is
generally established by using revenue or earnings multiples or other relevant
market data including Initial Public Offerings.     

    (4)   For corporate, government and
asset-backed debt securities, fair value is based on observable inputs of
comparable market transactions.     

    (5)   For corporate and government debt
securities that are traded on active exchanges, fair value is based on
observable quoted prices.     

    (6)   For real estate funds, fair value is
based on appraised values developed using comparable market transactions.     

    (7)   For cash balances held in the form
of short-term fund units that are redeemable at the measurement date, the fair
value is treated as a Level 2 input.    

    (8)   For cash balances that are subject
to withdrawal penalties or other adjustments, the fair value is treated as a
Level 2 input.    

89       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(1)   For U.S. and non-U.S. equity securities held in the form of
fund units that are redeemable at the measurement date, the unit value is
treated as a Level 2 input. The fair value of the securities owned by the funds
is based on observable quoted prices on active exchanges, which are Level 1
inputs.     

    (2)   For private equity, fair value is
generally established by using revenue or earnings multiples or other relevant
market data including Initial Public Offerings.     

    (3)   For corporate, government and
asset-backed debt securities, fair value is based on observable inputs of
comparable market transactions.         

The change in the fair value in 2013 of Level 3 assets that use
significant unobservable inputs to measure fair value is shown in the table
below:      

90       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A summary of pension plans with an
accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets is shown in the table
below:      

(1)   The Corporation amortizes the net balance of actuarial
losses/(gains) as a component of net periodic benefit cost over the average
remaining service period of active plan participants.     

    (2)   The Corporation amortizes prior
service cost on a straight-line basis as permitted under authoritative guidance
for defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans.         

18. Disclosures about Segments and Related
Information     

   The
Upstream, Downstream and Chemical functions best define the operating segments
of the business that are reported separately. The factors used to identify
these reportable segments are based on the nature of the operations that are
undertaken by each segment. The Upstream segment is organized and operates to
explore for and produce crude oil and natural gas. The Downstream segment is
organized and operates to manufacture and sell petroleum products. The Chemical
segment is organized and operates to manufacture and sell petrochemicals. These
segments are broadly understood across the petroleum and petrochemical
industries.    

   These functions have been defined as the operating segments
of the Corporation because they are the segments (1) that engage in
business activities from which revenues are earned and expenses are incurred;
(2) whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the Corporation s
chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be
allocated to the segment and to assess its performance; and (3) for which
discrete financial information is available.    

   Earnings after income tax include transfers at estimated
market prices.    

91       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

In corporate and financing activities,
interest revenue relates to interest earned on cash deposits and marketable
securities. Interest expense includes non-debt-related interest expense of $129
million and $202 million in 2014 and 2012, respectively. For 2013,
non-debt-related interest expense was a net credit of $123 million, primarily
reflecting the effect of credits from the favorable resolution of prior year
tax positions.     

(1)   Sales
and other operating revenue includes sales-based taxes of $29,342 million for
2014, $30,589 million for 2013 and   $32,409 million for 2012. See Note 1,
Summary of Accounting Policies.         

92       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(1)  Sales and other operating revenue includes sales-based taxes
of $29,342 million for 2014, $30,589 million for 2013 and $32,409 million for
2012. See Note 1, Summary of Accounting Policies.         

93       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

19. Income, Sales-Based and Other Taxes       

(1)   In 2014, state taxes included a favorable adjustment of
deferred taxes of approximately $830 million.         

All other taxes and duties include taxes
reported in production and manufacturing and selling, general and
administrative (SG A) expenses. The above provisions for deferred income
taxes include net credits of $40 million in 2014 and $310 million in 2013 and a
net charge of $244 million in 2012 for the effect of changes in tax laws and
rates.      

The reconciliation between income tax expense and a theoretical
U.S. tax computed by applying a rate of 35 percent for 2014, 2013 and 2012
is as follows:      

94       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Deferred income taxes reflect the impact
of temporary differences between the amount of assets and liabilities
recognized for financial reporting purposes and such amounts recognized for tax
purposes.    

   Deferred tax liabilities/(assets) are
comprised of the following at December 31:      

In 2014, asset valuation allowances of
$2,570 million increased by $79 million and included additional net provisions
of $340 million and effects of foreign currency translation of $(261) million. 

Deferred income tax (assets) and liabilities are included
in the balance sheet as shown below. Deferred income tax (assets) and
liabilities are classified as current or long term consistent with the
classification of the related temporary difference   separately by tax
jurisdiction.      

The Corporation had $51 billion of indefinitely reinvested,
undistributed earnings from subsidiary companies outside the U.S. Unrecognized
deferred taxes on remittance of these funds are not expected to be material.             

95       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Unrecognized Tax Benefits.      The Corporation is subject to income
taxation in many jurisdictions around the world. Unrecognized tax benefits
reflect the difference between positions taken or expected to be taken on
income tax returns and the amounts recognized in the financial statements. The
following table summarizes the movement in unrecognized tax benefits:      

The gross unrecognized tax benefit
balances shown above are predominantly related to tax positions that would
reduce the Corporation s effective tax rate if the positions are favorably
resolved. Unfavorable resolution of these tax positions generally would not
increase the effective tax rate. The 2014, 2013 and 2012 changes in
unrecognized tax benefits did not have a material effect on the Corporation s
net income.    

   Resolution of these tax positions through negotiations with
the relevant tax authorities or through litigation will take many years to
complete. It is difficult to predict the timing of resolution for tax positions
since such timing is not entirely within the control of the Corporation. It is
reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits could
increase by up to 30 percent in the next 12 months, with no material
impact on the Corporation s net income.   

   The following table summarizes the tax
years that remain subject to examination by major tax jurisdiction:      

The Corporation classifies interest on
income tax-related balances as interest expense or interest income and
classifies tax-related penalties as operating expense.    

   The Corporation incurred $42 million in interest expense on
income tax reserves in 2014. For 2013, the Corporation s net interest expense
was a credit of $207 million, reflecting the effect of credits from the
favorable resolution of prior year tax positions. The Corporation incurred $46
million in interest expense in 2012. The related interest payable balances were
$205 million and $156 million at December 31, 2014, and 2013,
respectively.   

96       

SUPPLEMENTAL              INFORMATION      
         ON              OIL              AND              GAS              EXPLORATION              AND              PRODUCTION              ACTIVITIES      
       (unaudited)       

The results of operations for producing
activities shown below do not include earnings from other activities that
ExxonMobil includes in the Upstream function, such as oil and gas
transportation operations, LNG liquefaction and transportation operations, coal
and power operations, technical service agreements, other nonoperating
activities and adjustments for noncontrolling interests. These excluded amounts
for both consolidated and equity companies totaled $3,223 million in 2014, $886
million in 2013, and $2,832 million in 2012. Oil sands mining operations are
included in the results of operations in accordance with Securities and
Exchange Commission and Financial Accounting Standards Board rules.    

97       

98       

Oil and
Gas Exploration and Production Costs     

   The amounts shown for net capitalized costs of consolidated
subsidiaries are $12,856 million less at year-end 2014 and $13,667 million less
at year-end 2013 than the amounts reported as investments in property, plant
and equipment for the Upstream in Note 9. This is due to the exclusion
from capitalized costs of certain transportation and research assets and assets
relating to LNG operations. Assets related to oil sands and oil shale
mining operations are included in the capitalized costs in accordance with
Financial Accounting Standards Board rules.   

99       

Oil and
Gas Exploration and Production Costs (continued)     

   The
amounts reported as costs incurred include both capitalized costs and costs
charged to expense during the year. Costs incurred also include new asset
retirement obligations established in the current year, as well as increases or
decreases to the asset retirement obligation resulting from changes in cost
estimates or abandonment date. Total consolidated costs incurred in 2014 were $29,115
million, down $4,508 million from 2013, due primarily to lower property
acquisition costs and development costs. In 2013 costs were $33,623 million, up
$2,477 million from 2012, due primarily to higher property acquisition costs
partially offset by lower exploration costs. Total equity company costs
incurred in 2014 were $2,677 million, up $335 million from 2013, due primarily
to exploration costs.    

100       

Oil and
Gas Reserves     

   The following information describes changes during the
years and balances of proved oil and gas reserves at year-end 2012, 2013, and
2014.    

   The definitions used are in accordance with the Securities
and Exchange Commission s Rule 4-10 (a) of Regulation S-X.    

   Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities of oil and
gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated
with reasonable certainty to be economically producible   from a given date
forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions,
operating methods and government regulations   prior to the time at which
contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that
renewal is reasonably certain. In some cases, substantial new investments in
additional wells and related facilities will be required to recover these
proved reserves.    

   In accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission s
rules, the year-end reserves volumes as well as the reserves change categories
shown in the following tables were calculated using average prices during the
12-month period prior to the ending date of the period covered by the report,
determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month
price for each month within such period. These reserves quantities are also
used in calculating unit-of-production depreciation rates and in calculating
the standardized measure of discounted net cash flow.    

   Revisions can include upward or downward changes in
previously estimated volumes of proved reserves for existing fields due to the
evaluation or re-evaluation of (1) already available geologic, reservoir
or production data, (2) new geologic, reservoir or production data or
(3) changes in average prices and year-end costs that are used in the
estimation of reserves. This category can also include significant changes in
either development strategy or production equipment/facility capacity.    

   Proved reserves include 100 percent of each majority-owned
affiliate s participation in proved reserves and ExxonMobil s ownership
percentage of the proved reserves of equity companies, but exclude royalties
and quantities due others. Gas reserves exclude the gaseous equivalent of
liquids expected to be removed from the gas on leases, at field facilities and
at gas processing plants. These liquids are included in net proved reserves of
crude oil and natural gas liquids.    

   In the proved reserves tables, consolidated reserves and
equity company reserves are reported separately. However, the Corporation does
not view equity company reserves any differently than those from consolidated
companies.    

   Reserves reported under production sharing and other
nonconcessionary agreements are based on the economic interest as defined by
the specific fiscal terms in the agreement. The production and reserves that we
report for these types of arrangements typically vary inversely with oil and
gas price changes. As oil and gas prices increase, the cash flow and value
received by the company increase; however, the production volumes and reserves
required to achieve this value will typically be lower because of the higher
prices. When prices decrease, the opposite effect generally occurs. The
percentage of total liquids and natural gas proved reserves (consolidated
subsidiaries plus equity companies) at year-end 2014 that were associated with
production sharing contract arrangements was 11 percent of liquids, 9 percent
of natural gas and 10 percent on an oil-equivalent basis (gas converted to
oil-equivalent at 6 billion cubic feet = 1 million barrels).    

   Net proved developed reserves are those volumes that are
expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and
operating methods or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively
minor compared to the cost of a new well. Net proved undeveloped reserves are
those volumes that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled
acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is
required for recompletion.    

   Crude oil and natural gas liquids and natural gas
production quantities shown are the net volumes withdrawn from ExxonMobil s oil
and gas reserves. The natural gas quantities differ from the quantities of gas
delivered for sale by the producing function as reported in the Operating
Summary due to volumes consumed or flared and inventory changes.    

   The changes, between 2013 year-end proved reserves and 2014
year-end proved reserves, primarily reflect the revisions, extensions and
discoveries in Canada and the United States.   

101       

(      See       footnote on next page)     

102       

(1)   Includes total proved reserves
attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 9 million barrels in 2012, 11 million
barrels in 2013 and 8 million barrels in 2014, as well as proved developed
reserves of 9 million barrels in 2012, 9 million barrels in 2013 and 5 million
barrels in 2014, and in addition, proved undeveloped reserves of 2 million
barrels in 2013 and 3 million in 2014, in which there is a 30.4 percent
noncontrolling interest.    

103       

(1)   Includes total proved reserves
attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 53 million barrels in 2012, 62 million
barrels in 2013 and 46 million barrels in 2014, as well as proved developed
reserves of 52 million barrels in 2012, 55 million barrels in 2013 and 36
million barrels in 2014, and in addition, proved undeveloped reserves of 1
million barrels in 2012, 7 million barrels in 2013 and 10 million barrels in
2014, in which there is a 30.4 percent noncontrolling interest.     

    (2)   Includes total proved reserves
attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 2,841 million barrels in 2012, 2,867
million barrels in 2013 and 3,274 million barrels in 2014, as well as proved
developed reserves of 543 million barrels in 2012, 1,417 million barrels in
2013 and 1,635 million barrels in 2014, and in addition, proved undeveloped
reserves of 2,298 million barrels in 2012, 1,450 million barrels in 2013 and
1,639 million barrels in 2014, in which there is a 30.4 percent noncontrolling
interest.     

    (3)   Includes total proved reserves
attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 599 million barrels in 2012, 579
million barrels in 2013 and 534 million barrels in 2014, as well as proved
developed reserves of 599 million barrels in 2012, 579 million barrels in 2013
and 534 million barrels in 2014, in which there is a 30.4 percent
noncontrolling interest.     

    (4)   See previous pages for natural gas
liquids proved reserves attributable to consolidated subsidiaries and equity
companies. For additional information on natural gas liquids proved reserves
see Item 2. Properties in ExxonMobil s 2014 Form 10-K.     

104       

(See footnotes
on next page)     

105       

(1)   Includes total proved reserves
attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 488 billion cubic feet in 2012, 678
billion cubic feet in 2013 and 627 billion cubic feet in 2014, as well as
proved developed reserves of 374 billion cubic feet in 2012, 368 billion cubic
feet in 2013 and 300 billion cubic feet in 2014, and in addition, proved
undeveloped reserves of 114 billion cubic feet in 2012, 310 billion cubic feet
in 2013 and 327 billion cubic feet in 2014, in which there is a 30.4 percent
noncontrolling interest.     

    (2)   Natural gas is converted to
oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels.     

106       

(See footnotes
on previous page)     

107       

Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Cash Flows     

   As required by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board, the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows
is computed by applying first-day-of-the-month average prices,
year-end costs and legislated tax rates and a discount factor of 10 percent
to net proved reserves. The standardized measure includes costs for
future dismantlement, abandonment and rehabilitation obligations.
The Corporation believes the standardized measure does not provide
a reliable estimate of the Corporation s expected future cash flows to be
obtained from the development and production of its oil and gas properties or
of the value of its proved oil and gas reserves. The standardized measure is
prepared on the basis of certain prescribed assumptions including
first-day-of-the-month average prices, which represent discrete points in time
and therefore may cause significant variability in cash flows from year to year
as prices change.    

(1)   Includes discounted future net cash
flows attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of $24,690 million in 2012, in which
there is a 30.4 percent noncontrolling interest.     

108       

(1)   Includes discounted future net cash
flows attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of $25,160 million in 2013 and $30,189
million in 2014, in which there is a 30.4 percent noncontrolling interest.     

109       

Change in Standardized Measure of
Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Oil and Gas Reserves     

110       

Change in Standardized Measure of
Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Oil and Gas Reserves     

111       

OPERATING SUMMARY (unaudited          )      

Operating statistics include 100 percent
of operations of majority-owned subsidiaries; for other companies, crude
production, gas, petroleum product and chemical prime product sales include
ExxonMobil s ownership percentage and refining throughput includes quantities
processed for ExxonMobil. Net production excludes royalties and quantities due
others when produced, whether payment is made in kind or cash.     

    (1)   Gas converted to oil-equivalent at
6 million cubic feet = 1 thousand barrels.     

    (2)   Petroleum product sales data
reported net of purchases/sales contracts with the same counterparty.     

    (3)   Prime product sales are total
product sales excluding carbon black oil and sulfur. Prime product sales
include ExxonMobil s share of equity company volumes and finished-product
transfers to the Downstream.    

112       

SIGNATURES    

   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.    

EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION  

By:  

/s/    REX W.
  TILLERSON          

(Rex W. Tillerson,  
    Chairman of the Board)  

Dated February 25, 2015   

POWER
OF ATTORNEY    

   Each person whose signature appears below constitutes
and appoints Randall M. Ebner, Leonard M. Fox and Catherine C. Shae and each of
them, his or her true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power
of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her name,
place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits
thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each
of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and
thing requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes
as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all
that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them, or their or his or her
substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue
hereof.    

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated and on
February 25, 2015.    

/s/    REX
  W. TILLERSON  

(Rex W. Tillerson)  

Chairman of the Board  
    (Principal Executive Officer)  

/s/    MICHAEL
  J. BOSKIN  

(Michael J. Boskin)  

Director  

/s/    PETER
  BRABECK-LETMATHE  

(Peter Brabeck-Letmathe)  

Director  

/s/    URSULA
  M. BURNS  

(Ursula M. Burns)  

Director  

/s/    LARRY
  R. FAULKNER  

(Larry R. Faulkner)  

Director  

113       

/s/    JAY
  S. FISHMAN  

(Jay S. Fishman)  

Director  

/s/    HENRIETTA
  H. FORE  

(Henrietta H. Fore)  

Director  

/s/    KENNETH
  C. FRAZIER  

(Kenneth C. Frazier)  

Director  

/s/    WILLIAM
  W. GEORGE  

(William W. George)  

Director  

/s/    SAMUEL
  J. PALMISANO  

(Samuel J. Palmisano)  

Director  

/s/    STEVEN
  S REINEMUND  

(Steven S Reinemund)  

Director  

/s/    WILLIAM
  C. WELDON  

(William C. Weldon)  

Director  

/s/    ANDREW
  P. SWIGER  

(Andrew P. Swiger)  

Senior Vice President  
    (Principal Financial Officer)  

/s/    DAVID
  S. ROSENTHAL  

(David S. Rosenthal)  

Vice President and Controller  
    (Principal Accounting Officer)  

114       

INDEX TO EXHIBITS       

Exhibit   

Description   

3(i)  

Restated
  Certificate of Incorporation, as restated November 30, 1999, and as
  further amended effective June 20, 2001 (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 3(i) to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
  the quarter ended June 30, 2011).  

3(ii)  

By-Laws, as
  revised to April 27, 2011 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(ii) to the
  Registrant s Report on Form 8-K on April 29, 2011).  

10(iii)(a.1)  

2003 Incentive
  Program, as approved by shareholders May 28, 2003 (incorporated by reference
  to Exhibit 10(iii)(a.1) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
  2012).*  

10(iii)(a.2)  

Extended
  Provisions for Restricted Stock Agreements (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 99.2 to the Registrant s Report on Form 8-K of November 28,
  2012).*  

10(iii)(a.3)  

Extended
  Provisions for Restricted Stock Unit Agreements   Settlement in Shares.*  

10(iii)(a.4)  

Standard
  Provisions for Restricted Stock Unit Agreements   Settlement in Cash
  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(a.4) to the Registrant s Annual
  Report on Form 10-K for 2013).*  

10(iii)(b.1)  

Short Term
  Incentive Program, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
  10(iii)(b.1) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2013).*  

10(iii)(b.2)  

Earnings Bonus
  Unit instrument.*  

10(iii)(c.1)  

ExxonMobil
  Supplemental Savings Plan.*  

10(iii)(c.2)  

ExxonMobil
  Supplemental Pension Plan.*  

10(iii)(c.3)  

ExxonMobil
  Additional Payments Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(c.3)
  to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2013).*  

10(iii)(d)  

ExxonMobil
  Executive Life Insurance and Death Benefit Plan (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10(iii)(d) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K
  for 2011).*  

10(iii)(f.1)  

2004
  Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Plan (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10(iii)(f.1) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
  2013).*  

10(iii)(f.2)  

Standing resolution
  for non-employee director restricted grants dated September 26, 2007
  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(f.2) to the Registrant s
  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
  2012).*  

10(iii)(f.3)  

Form of restricted
  stock grant letter for non-employee directors.*  

10(iii)(f.4)  

Standing
  resolution for non-employee director cash fees dated October 26, 2011
  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(f.4) to the Registrant s
  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011).*  

10(iii)(g.3)  

1984 Mobil
  Compensation Management Retention Plan (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10(iii)(g.3) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K
  for 2011).*  

12  

Computation of
  ratio of earnings to fixed charges.  

14  

Code of Ethics
  and Business Conduct (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 14 to the
  Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2013).  

21  

Subsidiaries of
  the registrant.  

23  

Consent of
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.  

31.1  

Certification
  (pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a)) by Chief
  Executive Officer.  

31.2  

Certification
  (pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a)) by Principal
  Financial Officer.  

31.3  

Certification
  (pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a)) by Principal
  Accounting Officer.  

115       

INDEX TO EXHIBITS   (continued)      

*   Compensatory plan or arrangement required to be
identified pursuant to Item 15(a)(3) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

  The registrant has not filed with this report copies
of the instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the registrant
and its subsidiaries for which consolidated or unconsolidated financial
statements are required to be filed. The registrant agrees to furnish a copy of
any such instrument to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.   

116       

<EX-10.(III) (A3)>
 2
 xom10iiia3.htm
 EXTENDED PROVISIONS FOR RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENTS-SETTLEMENT IN SHARES

EXHIBIT 10(iii)(a.3)   

November 25, 2014    

Exxon Mobil Corporation    

    Extended         Provisions          for          Restricted          Stock Unit Agreements -     S    ettlement in Shares    

1.               Effective Date and Credit             of
Restricted Stock Units       .      If Grantee   ac  cep  t  s
the award on   o  r be  f  ore March 6, 2015, this A  g  ree  m  ent
will     become effective the date the
Corp  o  rat  i  on r  e  ceiv  e  s the award   a  ccepta  n  ce.      After this a  g  r  ee  ment      becom  e  s
effective, the Corp  o  ration will
credit to Grantee the number of res  t  ricted      stock u  n  its
specified in the award     package.      Subject to the terms and conditions of
this     Agreement,      each res  t  ric  t  ed s  t  ock
unit ( unit ) will entitle Grantee   t  o
receive in settlement of     the unit one
share of the Corp  o  rati  o  n's      common      stock.             

2.               Conditions       .      If credited, t  h  e units will   b  e      subj  e  c  t
to the provis  i  o  n  s
of this Agre  e  ment, and to s  u  ch r  e  gulat  i  ons   a  nd
requ  i  re  m  ents      as the adm  i  n  i  s  trative auth  o  rity of the Program may   e  s  t  ablish
from time to time.     T  he units will be credit  e  d to Grant  e  e only on the condition that Grant  e  e acc  e  pts s  u  ch   p  ro  v  isio  n  s  , re  g  ul  a  tions, and requ  i  re  m  ents.     

3.               Restrictions and Risk of Forfeiture       .      Dur  i  ng the a  p  plic  a  ble r  e  str  i  cted p  e  rio  d  s      sp  e  c  ified
in     section 4 of th  i  s Agr  e  ement,

a)           the uni  t  s und  e  r
r  e  str  i  ction may not be sold,   a  ss  i  gned, tra  n  sferr  e  d, pledg  e  d, or otherw  i  se d  i  sposed of or e  n  cu  m  bered,
and any   a  ttempt to do so will be
null     and void; and   

  b)             the uni  t  s und  e  r r  e  str  i  ction may be f  o  rfeited as provided in secti  o  n
6.    

4.        
      Restricted Periods       .      The r  e  str  i  cted      perio  d  s
will     comme  n  c  e      w  h  en
the units   a  re credit  e  d to Grant  e  e and,     unl  e  ss the   un  its
have been forfeit  e  d      earli  e  r
un  d  er secti  o  n 6, wi  l  l expire as     fol  l  ows,
whet  h  er or not Gr  a  ntee is still an   e  mployee:    

a)        
  with      r  e  s  p  ect to 50% of the units, on     Novem  b  er
  25, 2019  ; and   

  b)        
  with      r  e  s  p  ect to the re  m  aining   u  nits, on the
later to     occur of   

  (i)  November 25, 2024, or   

                (ii)     the fi  r  s  t day of the cal  e  nd  a  r year   i  mmediately followi  n  g the year in wh  i  c  h      Grant  e  e term  i  nates;
ex  c  ept      that    

              c)     the r  e  stricted peri  o  ds      will automatica  l  ly expire with resp  e  c  t
to all sh  a  r  e  s on the     death of Gr  a  ntee.      

5.               No O      b      ligation to Credit Uni      t      s        .       The C  o  r  p  orat  i  on will have   n  o obligation   t  o cr  e  dit any units and     will   h  ave no other     obligation to     Grant  e  e with     re  s  pe  c  t      to      the      s  ubje  c  t      matter   
  of      this Agreement     if Grant  e  e
fails     to accept the aw  a  rd on   o  r
  b  efore March 6, 2015.     In addition, whether   o  r   n  ot
Grant  e  e      h  a  s acc  e  pted t  h  e
aw  a  rd, the Corp  o  ration   
  will have no obligation to     cr  e  dit any un  i  ts and will   hav  e no
other     o  bligation to   G  rantee      with r  e  sp  e  c  t
to the subj  e  c  t matter of this Agree  m  ent
if, before the   u  nits are     credi  t  ed:

a)           Grantee terminates (other than by
death) before standard retirement time within the meaning of the Program,
except to the extent the administrative authority of the Program determines
Grantee may receive units under this Agreement; or   

  b)           Grantee is determined to have
engaged in detrimental activity within the meaning of the Program; or   

  c)           Grantee fails to provide the
Corporation with cash for any required taxes due upon crediting the units, if
Grantee is required to do so under section 7.   

1   

6.               Forf      e      it      u      re              of              Units              After              Cr      e      diting        .      Until the appl  i  c  ab  l  e r  e  str  i  cted per  i  od
sp  e  c  ified
in sec  ti  on 4 h  a  s exp  i  red,
the units     und  e  r r  e  str  i  ction will be forfeited or     s  u  bject
to forfei  t  ure in the fol  l  owi  n  g
circ  um  sta  n  c  e  s:    

Termination       

  If Grantee terminates     (oth  e  r
than by dea  t  h) bef  o  re st  a  ndard
retire  m  ent time within the meani  n  g of the Program, all units for     which the appl  i  c  a  ble r  e  str  i  cted      peri  o  ds   h  ave
not expired     will be automa  t  ically forfeited as of     the date of term  i  nati  o  n, except to the
extent   t  he administrative au  t  hority determ  i  nes Grant  e  e may
retain uni  t  s issu  e  d un  d  er
t  h  is Agr  e  emen  t  .    

Detrimental             activity       

  If Grantee is     determ  i  ned
to     have eng  a  g  e  d in detrim  e  ntal a  c  tivity
within the mean  i  ng of the Pr  o  gram, eith  e  r before or after termination, all units for which the appl  i  c  ab  l  e restr  i  cted
per  i  ods      have not expired will be automatically forfeited as of     t  he
date of such   d  eterm  in  ation.    

Attempted             transfer      

  The units   a  re      sub  j  ect to for  f  eiture in the   d  iscretion      of t  h  e
admin  i  s  trat  iv  e authority if
Grant  e  e attempts to sell, assi  g  n, transf  e  r, pled  g  e, or otherw  i  se dis  p  ose      of or e  n  cu  m  ber      them
dur  i  ng the appl  i  c  ab  l  e      restr  i  cted peri  o  ds.    

Applicable             law     

  The units   a  re      sub  j  ect to for  f  eiture in who  l  e or in     p  a  rt
as the adminis  t  r  ative authori  t  y deems n  e  cessary in
ord  e  r to co  m  ply with appl  i  c  ab  l  e
law.  

7.               Taxes       .      Notwithstanding the restrictions
on transfer that otherwise apply, the Corporation in its sole discretion may
withhold units or shares, either at the time of issuance, at the time the
applicable restricted periods expire, or at any other time in order to satisfy
any required withholding, social security, and similar taxes or contributions
(collectively,  required taxes ). Withheld units or shares may be
retained by the Corporation or sold on behalf of Grantee. If the Corporation does
not withhold units or shares to satisfy required taxes, in the alternative the
Corporation may require Grantee to deposit with the Corporation cash in an
amount determined by the Corporation to be necessary to satisfy required taxes.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Corporation will be
under no obligation to credit units or to deliver shares to Grantee in
settlement of any units if Grantee fails timely to deposit such amount with the
Corporation. The Corporation in its sole discretion may also withhold any
required taxes from dividends paid on the units.    

8.               Form
of Units; No             Sharehol      d      er Status       .      The units     will be re  p  r  e  s  e  nted by bo  o  k-  e  ntry cr  e  dits in  
  rec  o  r  d  s mai  n  tained by or   o  n behalf of the Corporation.     Units      will
be     unfunded and     unsecured      promises      by      the      Corporation      to      deliver
shares in the future up  o  n the ter  m  s and  
  sub  j  ect to the     conditi  o  ns
of     this Agree  m  ent.      Grantee      will not be a shar  e  hol  d  er of the Cor  p  oration with r  e  spect to units     pri  o  r to the t  i  me sh  a  r  e  s are actually r  eg  ister  e  d in Gr  a  ntee's   n  ame
in settlement     of such units   i  n accorda  n  ce      with s  e  ction      9.   

9.               Set      t      le      m      ent              of              Uni      t      s        .      If and when   t  he appl  i  c  ab  l  e      restr  i  cted
  p  eriod expir  e  s w  i  th res  p  ect to  
  any units, s  u  bject to s  e  cti  o  n
7, the Corp  o  ration      will issue     sh  a  res, fr  e  e of r  e  str  i  ction and regist  e  red in   t  he name of   G  rantee, in settlement of s  u  ch uni  t  s  .      Such      sh  a  r  e  s w  i  ll
be deliver  e  d pro  m  ptly a  f  ter
s  u  ch exp  i  ration to or for the account  
  of Grant  e  e either in certi  f  icated form or by book-entry tran  s  fer in   a  c  cor  d  a  n  ce wi  t  h
the pr  o  c  e  du  res of the admin  i  s  trati  v  e authority in effect at the time.    

10.            Change
in Capit      a      lization        .      If during the   a  pplicable res  t  ricted   p  er  i  o  d  s
a stock split, stock divid  en  d, or
other     re  l  evant ch  a  nge      in capital  i  zation      of the
Corporation occurs,     the admin  i  s  trative
authori  t  y   w  ill make such adjustments in the numb  e  r of un  i  ts credited
to     Grant  e  e, or in     the numb  e  r and type of sec  u  rities   d  eliverab  l  e to Gr  a  ntee
in settlement of     s  u  ch uni  t  s
a  n  d us  e  d in de  t  ermin  i  ng      dividend
  e  quiva  l  ent amoun  t  s, as the
adm  i  n  i  s  trative authority
may     determi  n  e to be ap  p  ro  p  ria  t  e.
Any result  i  ng n  e  w units  
  or s  e  c  u  riti  e  s cr  e  dited with     resp  e  c  t to previo  u  s  ly credited uni  t  s that are still r  e  str  i  cted un  d  er this Agree  m  ent will be de  l  ivered
to and     held by or on be  h  alf of the C  o  rp  o  rati  o  n and will   b  e sub  j  ect to t  h  e      same

2   

p  rovis  i  ons, r  e  str  i  cti  o  ns,
and     requ  i  rements   a  s those   p  revio  u  s  ly cr  e  dited
  u  nits.     

11.            Limits             on the Corporation's Obligations       .      Notwit  h  s  ta  n  d  i  ng
anything   e  lse contai  n  ed      in
this     Agre  e  ment, und  e  r no circ  u  mst  a  nc  e  s will the     Corp  o  ration be re  q  uired to cr  e  dit any units or   i  ss  u  e or deliv  e  r any     shares in     se  t  tlement
of units if doing so     wou  l  d violate any law or listi  n  g r  e  quir  e  ment th  a  t      the admi  n  is  t  rative auth  o  rity determin  e  s      to be appl  i  c  a  ble, or if Grant  e  e h  a  s failed to prov  i  de for r  e  quir  e  d taxes purs  u  ant to secti  o  n      7.    

12.            Receipt
or Access to Program       .       Grant  e  e
ack  n  owl  e  dg  e  s r  e  ceipt of or acc  e  ss to     the      full      text      of the  
  Program.      

13.            Dividend
Equivalents       .      The
C  o  r  p  orat  i  on will pay to Grant  e  e c  a  sh      with r  e  sp  e  c  t
to each     cr  e  dited unit c  o  rrespond  i  ng in   a  mount,
curr  e  ncy, and     timing to cash dividen  d  s
that wou  l  d      be      payable      with resp  e  c  t to a share of     com  m  on st  o  ck outsta  n  ding   o  n each r  e  c  o  rd      date that occurs   d  ur  i  ng t  h  e      applicable
r  e  str  i  cted p  e  ri  o  d.      Alternatively,
the admin  i  s  trati  v  e authority   m  ay determi  n  e to reinvest     s  u  ch divid  e  nd
  e  quivalen  t  s in additio  n  al un  i  ts wh  i  c  h will be held     sub  je  c  t to all the terms   a  nd con  d  itions oth  e  rw  i  s  e a  p  plicable      to units un  d  er this Agree  m  ent.     

14.            Addresses
for Communications       .      To
facilitate commun  i  cations regardi  n  g this Agreement, Grantee agrees to     notify the Corporation pro  m  ptly of cha  n  g  e  s in     current mail  i  ng and e  m  ail address  e  s. Com  m  un  i  cat  i  ons
to the C  o  rp  o  ration in     conn  e  ction with this Agr  e  ement s  h  ould      be dir  e  cted
to the Incenti  v  e      Processi  n  g
Office, or to such ot  h  er a  dd  ress   a  s
the Corp  o  ration      may desi  g  na  t  e by further   n  otice to Gran  t  ee.    

15.            Transfer
of Personal Data       .      The
adm  i  nistration of the Pro  g  ram a  n  d
this Agreem  e  n  t, includi  n  g any su  b  s  e  q  u  ent
ow  n  ersh  i  p of sh  a  res, involve
the c  o  llection,   u  s  e,
and tra  n  sf  e  r of personal   d  ata
about   G  r  a  ntee between     and amo  n  g the Corp  o  ration,      sel  e  cted      su  bs  idiari  e  s
a  n  d   o  ther affiliates     of
the Cor  p  oration, and third-p  a  rty serv  ic  e
provid  er  s s  u  ch   a  s Mor  g  an Stanley a  n  d Com  p  utershare      (the Co  r  porati  o  n  '  s
tr  a  nsfer   a  gen  t  ), as well as
various regu  l  atory a  n  d tax authorities arou  n  d the  
  world.      Th  i  s      data
inc  l  ud  e  s Grant  e  e's   na  me, age, date     of birth, cont  a  c  t information, w  o  rk      locati  o  n, em  p  loyment
s  t  at  u  s  , tax status, s  o  cial securi  t  y      number, sa  l  ary, nationality, job title, share     ow  n  ership,   a  nd detai  l  s      of inc  e  ntive
aw  a  rds   g  r  a  n  t  ed, cancelled, ves  t  ed or unvest  e  d, a  n  d related inf  o  rmation.      By   ac  cepting th  i  s      aw  a  rd, Gran  t  ee
auth  o  rizes such col  l  ect  i  on,
use, a  n  d transf  e  r of this data. Gr  a  ntee may, at any time and     without
c  h  ar  g  e, view s  u  ch   d  ata and r  e  qu  i  re      nec  es  sary
corr  e  c  tio  n  s to     it. Such data     will at all ti  m  es be   h  eld      in      accorda  n  ce      with appl  i  c  ab  l  e
laws, regu  l  ations, a  n  d agr  e  em  e  nts.     

16.            No
Emplo      y      ment Contract or E      n      titlement to Other or Future       A      w      ards        .      This A  g  ree  m  ent, the Cor  p  oratio  n  's
i  n  c  e  ntive
pro  g  ra  m  s  , and   G  rant  e  e's      sel  e  ction
for incentive   a  wards   d  o not imply or form a p  a  rt of any contract     or ass  u  r  a  nce of employm  e  nt, and they do not in any way limit or res  t  rict the a  b  ility of Grantee's e  m  ployer      to termina  t  e      Grant  e  e  '  s
e  m  ployment.      Grantee   a  c  kn  o  wle  d  g  e  s
that the Corp  o  rat  i  on maintai  n  s      and adm  i  nis  t  ers
i  t  s inc  e  ntive pro  g  ra  m  s entirely in its discreti  o  n a  n  d
that Grant  e  e is n  o  t entitled to any other or f  u  ture incen  t  ive      awards of a  n  y kind in addi  t  ion to those   t  hat have
alre  a  dy been     grant  e  d.     

17.            Governing
L      a      w       
      and       C      onsent to Ju      r      i      sdiction        .      This A  g  ree  m  ent and the   P  ro  g  ram
  a  re   g  overn  e  d by the     laws of the State of New     York      without
regard to any confl  i  ct of law rul  e  s.      Any
dispute   a  r  i  s  ing   o  ut of     or
relating to th  i  s Agr  e  ement      or
the Pro  g  r  a  m may be resolved in   a  ny
state or f  e  deral      co  u  rt
l  o  cated      within      Dall  a  s Coun  t  y,
Texas, U.S.A.     Grantee accep  t  s that venue a  n  d s  u  bmits to the   p  ersonal j  u  r  i  s  d  iction of any such     co  u  rt.      Similarly, the Corp  o  rati  o  n
accep  t  s s  u  ch venue a  n  d s  u  bmits to s  u  ch      jurisd  i  c  tion.

18.            Entire
Agreeme      n      t        .      This A  g  ree  m  ent co  n  s  titut  e  s the entire   u  ndersta  n  d  i  ng      betw  e  en Gr  a  ntee
and the     Corp  o  ration      with r  e  sp  e  c  t to the   s  ubje  c  t      matter
of this Agreement.  

3   

</EX-10.(III) (A3)>

<EX-10.(III) (B2)>
 3
 xom10iiib2.htm
 EARNINGS BONUS UNIT INSTRUMENT

EXHIBIT
10(iii)(b.2)   

EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION   

  EARNINGS BONUS UNIT AWARD  

Maximum  

Maximum  

Settlement  

Settlement  

EBU  

Number  

Value Per  

Value of  

Number   

Name of Grantee   

of EBUs   

EBU   

Award   

$6.50  

This    EARNINGS
BONUS UNIT AWARD    is granted in Dallas County, Texas by Exxon Mobil
Corporation (the  Corporation ) effective November  25, 2014 (the
 date of grant ), pursuant to the Short Term Incentive Program
adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation on October 27, 1993, as
amended (the  Program ). This award is subject to the provisions of
this instrument and the Program and to such regulations and requirements as may
be stipulated from time to time by the administrative authority defined in the
Program and is granted on the condition that Grantee accepts such provisions,
regulations and requirements. This instrument incorporates by reference the
provisions of the Program, as it may be amended from time to time, including
without limitation the definitions of terms used in this instrument and defined
in the Program.  

  1.      Award   . 
The Corporation has granted to Grantee the number of earnings bonus units
( EBUs ) set forth above, with each EBU having the maximum settlement
value set forth above. Subject to the other terms of this award, Grantee has
the right, for each of these EBUs, to receive from the Corporation, promptly
after the settlement date defined below, an amount of cash equal to the
Corporation's cumulative earnings per common share (assuming dilution) as
reflected in its quarterly earnings statements as initially filed in its
quarterly or annual reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 
commencing with earnings for the first full quarter following the date of grant
to and including the last full quarter preceding the settlement date; provided,
however, that the amount of such settlement will not exceed the maximum
settlement value specified above.  

  2.      Settlement
Date   .  The settlement date of these EBUs will be the earlier of  (i) the
date of publication of the Corporation's quarterly earnings statement for the
twelfth (12th) full quarter following the date of grant, or (ii) the date of
publication of the Corporation's quarterly earnings statement which brings the
cumulative earnings per common share (assuming dilution) as initially filed in
its quarterly or annual reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission commencing with the first full quarter following the date of grant
to an amount at least equal to the maximum settlement value per EBU specified
above.    

  3.      Annulment   . 
This award is provisional until the Corporation actually pays cash in
settlement of the award.  

        (a) If, before the
Corporation pays such cash, Grantee terminates (other than by death) before
standard retirement time within the meaning of the Program, this award will
automatically expire as of the date of termination, except to the extent the
administrative authority determines Grantee may retain this award.  

        (b)
If, before the Corporation pays such cash, Grantee is determined to have
engaged in detrimental activity within the meaning of the Program, this award
will automatically expire as of the date of such determination.  

  4.      Adjustments   . 
The number of EBUs covered by this award and the meaning of the term
 common share  will be adjusted by the administrative authority as it
deems appropriate to give effect to any stock split, stock dividend or other
relevant change in capitalization of the Corporation after the date of grant
and prior to the settlement date.  

5.      Governing
Law and Consent to Jurisdiction   .  This award and the Program are governed
by the laws of the State of New York without regard to any conflict of law
rules. Any dispute arising out of or relating to this award or the Program may
be resolved in any state or federal court located within Dallas County, Texas,
U.S.A. This award is issued on the condition that Grantee accepts such venue
and submits to the personal jurisdiction of any such court. Similarly, the
Corporation accepts such venue and submits to such jurisdiction.  

                                                                                         EXXON
MOBIL CORPORATION   

</EX-10.(III) (B2)>

<EX-10.(III) (C1)>
 4
 xom10iiic1.htm
 EXXONMOBIL SUPPLEMENTAL SAVINGS PLAN

EXHIBIT 10(iii)(c.1)    

EXXONMOBIL
SUPPLEMENTAL SAVINGS PLAN    

    (including
Key Employee Supplemental Savings Plan)    

    Effective
January 1, 2015    

1.    Purpose     

The purpose of this Plan is to
provide a payment of approximately equivalent value from the general assets of
Exxon Mobil Corporation ( Corporation ) to a person participating in the
ExxonMobil Savings Plan ( Savings Plan ) who, because of the application of
United States Internal Revenue Code ( Code ) sections 415 and 401(a)(17) is
precluded from receiving employer contributions to the person's Savings Plan
account to which the person would otherwise be entitled.   

2.    Benefits     

2.1             Eligibility     

   A person is eligible to receive benefits under this Plan only if
the person satisfies any of the following requirements:   

   (A)          The person becomes a
retiree pursuant to section 4.1(A) (relating to age, service and
LTD-eligibility requirements) or section 4.1(D) (relating to retiree grow-ins
in connection with certain divestments) of the ExxonMobil Common Provisions; or   

   (B)          The person becomes a
qualified plans retiree within the meaning of the ExxonMobil Pension Plan.   

   2.2             Benefit
Formula    

   (A)             In General    

   As to any specific Savings Plan participant the
total amount of payment under this Plan is an amount that is in general
determined by notionally crediting on a monthly basis the amount of employer
contributions that cannot be made to the Savings Plan for that person as a
result of application to that person of Code sections 415 and 401(a)(17);
except that, for those persons who, as of December 31, 1993, are classified at
level 36 and are age 50 and above, only notional employer contributions made
after such date are taken into account. This amount is enhanced in each
instance by 120 percent of the long-term Applicable Federal Rate, compounded
monthly, as of the last month of each calendar quarter as published by the
Internal Revenue Service, and is then reduced, but not below zero, by the
amount, if any, of the actuarial lump-sum value of the amount payable to the
participant under the ExxonMobil Key Employee Additional Payments Plan that is
not applied as an offset against the participant's benefit under the ExxonMobil
Additional Payments Plan or the ExxonMobil Supplemental Pension Plan. For this
purpose, the actuarial lump-sum value shall be determined using the mortality
and interest rate assumptions set out in the ExxonMobil Pension Accounts
Instrument.   

   (B)             Notional
Interest Rate for Key Employees after Termination or Retirement    

   As to a participant who, immediately prior to
his or her termination or retirement, has a Classification Level of 36 or above
( Key Employee ),  120 percent of the long-term Applicable Federal Rate,
compounded monthly, as of the last month of each calendar quarter as published
by the Internal Revenue Service  in paragraph (A) above shall be replaced
with  Citibank Prime Lending Rate as of the last business day of each
calendar quarter  for the period between date of termination or retirement
and date of payment.    

2.3             Calculation
Methodology    

   The exact methodology used in determining such
monthly credits and interest thereon will be established from time to time by
the Plan Administrator. General guidelines to be followed are:    

   (A)             Required Participant
Contributions    

   To the extent determined by those administering
this Plan, a person is required to make regular employee contributions to the
person's Savings Plan account up to the maximum permitted by the Code to
receive credits under this Plan.   

   (B)             Discretionary Employee Contributions    

   Prior to July 1, 2002, a person may not enhance
the amounts credited under this Plan by making discretionary employee
contributions to the person's Savings Plan account.   

1       

3.    Payment of Benefits    

Payment of the benefit
determined under article 2 above shall be made in a lump sum as soon as
practicable following the latest of the following times:   

   (A)          the participant s
retirement from ExxonMobil;   

   (B)          In the case of a
Key Employee, the six-month anniversary of the participant's termination of
employment or retirement;    

   (C)          In the case of a
participant whose Savings Plan account is transferred to a savings plan
sponsored by Infineum USA Inc. or any of its affiliates ( Infineum ),
the participant s termination of employment from Infineum; or   

   (D)          In the case of a
participant whose Savings Plan account is transferred to a savings plan
sponsored by Tenneco, Inc. or any of its affiliates ( Tenneco ), the
participant s termination of employment from Tenneco.   

4.    Payment
Upon Death    

4.1             In General    

   If a person dies as an employee with eligibility for a pension
death benefit under the ExxonMobil Pension Plan or as a retiree but before his
benefit under this Plan is distributed to him, then such benefit shall be
distributed as soon as practicable after death to the person s beneficiary
determined under section 4.2 below.   

4.2             Designation of
Beneficiaries    

   (A)             In General    

   A person entitled to receive a payment under
this Plan may name one or more designated beneficiaries to receive such payment
in the event of the person's death. Beneficiary designations shall be made
in accordance with such procedures as the Plan Administrator may establish. Spousal
consent to any designation is not required.   

   (B)             Default Beneficiaries    

   (1)              In General    

   If no specific designation is in effect, the
deceased s beneficiary is the person or persons in the first of the following
classes of successive beneficiaries living at the time of death of the
deceased:   

   (a)           spouse;   

   (b)           children who
survive the participant or who die before the participant leaving children of
their own who survive the participant;   

   (c)           parents;   

   (d)           brothers and
sisters who survive the participant or who die before the participant leaving
children of their own who survive the participant.   

   If there are no members of any class of such
beneficiaries, payment is made to the deceased s executors or administrators.   

   (2)              Allocation among Default
Beneficiaries    

   If the same class of beneficiaries under
paragraph (1) above contains two or more persons, they share equally, with
further subdivision of such equal shares as next provided. In class (b), where
a child dies before the participant leaving children who survive the
participant, such child's share is subdivided equally among those children. In
class (d), where a brother or sister dies before the participant leaving
children who survive the participant, such brother or sister's share is
subdivided equally among those children.   

   (3)              Definitions     

   For purposes of this Section 4.2,
 child  means a person's son or daughter by legitimate blood
relationship or legal adoption;  parent  means a person's father or
mother by legitimate blood relationship or legal adoption;  brother 
or  sister  means another child of either or both of one's parents.   

5.    Miscellaneous     

5.1             Administration
of Plan    

   The Plan Administrator shall be the Manager,
Compensation, Benefit Plans and Policies, Human Resources Department, Exxon
Mobil Corporation. The Plan Administrator shall have the right and
authority to conclusively interpret this Plan for all purposes, including the
determination of any person s eligibility for benefits hereunder and the
resolution of any and all appeals relating to claims by participants or
beneficiaries, with any such interpretation being conclusive for all
participants and beneficiaries.   

2       

5.2             Nature of
Payments    

   Payments provided under this Plan are
considered general obligations of the Corporation.   

5.3             Assignment or
Alienation    

   Except as provided in section 5.5 below,
payments provided under this Plan may not be assigned or otherwise alienated or
pledged.   

5.4             Amendment or
Termination    

   The Corporation reserves the right to amend or
terminate this plan, in whole or in part, including the right at any time to
reduce or eliminate any accrued benefits hereunder and to alter or amend the
benefit formula set out herein.   

5.5             Forfeiture of
Benefits    

   No person shall be entitled to receive payments
under this Plan and any payments received under this Plan shall be forfeited
and returned if it is determined by the Corporation in its sole discretion,
acting through its chief executive or such person or committee as the chief
executive may designate, that a person otherwise entitled to a payment under
this Plan or who has commenced receiving payments under this Plan:   

   (A)          engaged in gross
misconduct harmful to the Corporation,    

   (B)          committed a
criminal violation harmful to the Corporation,   

   (C)          had concealed
actions described in paragraph (A) or (B) above which would have brought about
termination from employment thereby making the person ineligible for benefits
under this Plan,    

   (D)          separated from
service prior to attaining age 65 without having received from the Corporation
or its delegatee prior written approval for such termination, given in the sole
discretion of the Corporation or its delegatee    

   and in the context of recognition that benefits
under this Plan would not be forfeited upon such termination, or   

   (E)           had been
terminated for cause.   

3       

EXXONMOBIL KEY EMPLOYEE SUPPLEMENTAL SAVINGS PLAN   

K1.    Purpose     

This Plan provides a payment
from the general assets of Exxon Mobil Corporation ( Corporation ) to a person
who, as of December 31, 1993,   

   (A)          was classified at level 36 or
above,    

   (B)          was age 50 or above,   

   (C)          was a participant
in the Thrift Plan of Exxon Corporation ( Thrift Plan ), and   

   (D)          had been
precluded from receiving employer contributions to the person's account within
the Thrift Plan to which the person would otherwise be entitled, because of the
application of United States Internal Revenue Code ( Code ) sections 415 and
401(a)(17).   

   This plan expresses the
Corporation's commitment to make such a payment at the time payment is made to
the participant under the ExxonMobil Supplemental Savings Plan, and sets forth
the method for doing so.   

K2.    Benefits     

K2.1          Benefit Formula    

   (A)             In General    

   As to a participant, the total amount of
payment under this Plan shall be an amount that has been in general determined
by notionally crediting on a monthly basis the amount of employer contributions
that could not have been made to the Thrift Plan account of that person as a
result of application to that person of Code sections 415 and 401(a)(17) from
the date the person otherwise would have been an eligible participant in the
Exxon Supplemental Thrift Plan until December 30, 1993. This amount shall be
enhanced in each instance by 120 percent of the long-term Applicable Federal
Rate, compounded monthly, as of the last month of each calendar quarter as
published by the Internal Revenue Service. A participant in this Plan shall
have a non-forfeitable right to this amount credited as of December 31, 1993
plus all enhancements.   

   (B)             Notional Interest Rate for Key
Employees after Termination or Retirement    

   As to a participant who, immediately prior to
his or her termination or retirement, has a Classification Level of 36 or
above,  120 percent of the long-term Applicable Federal Rate, compounded
monthly, as of the last month of each calendar quarter as published by the
Internal Revenue Service  in paragraph (A) above shall be replaced with
 Citibank Prime Lending Rate as of the last business day of each calendar
quarter  for the period between date of termination or retirement and date
of payment.   

K2.2          Calculation
Methodology    

   The exact methodology for such notional credits
and interest thereon shall be determined by the Plan Administrator.    

K3.    Payment
of Benefits    

K3.1          Form of Payment    

   Payments under this Plan are made in the form
of a lump sum single payment.   

K3.2          Timing of
Payment    

   Payment shall be made under this Plan at the
same time as payment is made to the participant under the ExxonMobil
Supplemental Savings Plan.   

4       

K4.    Beneficiaries     

K4.1          Designation of
Beneficiaries    

   A person entitled to receive a payment under
this Plan may name one or more designees to receive such payment in the event
of the person's death. Beneficiary designations shall be made in
accordance with such procedures as the Plan Administrator may establish. Spousal
consent to any designation is not required.    

K4.2          Default
Beneficiaries    

   (A)             In General    

   If no specific designation is in effect, the
deceased s beneficiary is the person or persons in the first of the following
classes of successive beneficiaries living at the time of death of the
deceased:   

   (1)           spouse;   

   (2)           children who
survive the participant or who die before the participant leaving children of
their own who survive the participant;   

   (3)           parents;   

   (4)           brothers and
sisters who survive the participant or who die before the participant leaving
children of their own who survive the participant.   

   If there are no members of any class of such
beneficiaries, payment is made to the deceased's executors or administrators.   

   (B)             Allocation among Default
Beneficiaries    

   If the same class of beneficiaries under
paragraph (A) above contains two or more persons, they share equally, with
further subdivision of such equal shares as next provided. In class (2), where
a child dies before the participant leaving children who survive the
participant, such child's share shall be subdivided equally among those
children. In class (4), where a brother or sister dies before the participant
leaving children who survive the participant, such brother or sister's share
shall be subdivided equally among those children.   

   (C)             Definitions     

   For purposes of this Section K4.2,
 child  means a person's son or daughter by legitimate blood
relationship or legal adoption;  parent  means a person's father or
mother by legitimate blood relationship or legal adoption;  brother 
or  sister  means another child of either or both of one's parents.   

K5.    Miscellaneous     

K5.1          Administration
of Plan    

   The Plan Administrator shall be the Manager,
Compensation, Benefit Plans and Policies, Human Resources Department,
ExxonMobil Corporation. The Plan Administrator shall have the right and
authority to conclusively interpret this Plan for all purposes, including the
determination of any person s eligibility for benefits hereunder and the
resolution of any and all appeals relating to claims by participants or
beneficiaries, with any such interpretation being conclusive for all
participants and beneficiaries.   

K5.2          Nature of
Payments    

   Payments provided under this Plan shall be
considered general obligations of the Corporation.   

K5.3          Assignment or
Alienation    

   Payments provided under this Plan may not be
assigned or otherwise alienated or pledged.   

K5.4          Amendment or
Termination    

   The Corporation may at any time amend or
terminate this Plan, in whole or in part, so long as the amendment does not
deprive any person of the non-forfeitable right to benefits specifically
granted in this Plan.   

5       

</EX-10.(III) (C1)>

<EX-10.(III) (C2)>
 5
 xom10iiic2.htm
 EXXONMOBIL SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN

EXHIBIT 10(iii)(c.2)    

EXXONMOBIL SUPPLEMENTAL
PENSION PLAN    

    (Including Key Employee
Supplemental Pension Plan)    

    Effective January 1, 2015    

1.    Purpose     

The purpose of
this Plan is to provide payments of equivalent value from the general assets of
Exxon Mobil Corporation ( Corporation ) to those participants in the ExxonMobil
Pension Plan ( Pension Plan ) who, because of the application of United States
Internal Revenue Code ( Code ) sections 415 and 401(a)(17), are precluded from
receiving from Pension Plan funded assets all the payments to which they would
otherwise be entitled under the Pension Plan's formula.    

2.    Benefits     

2.1             Eligibility     

   A person is eligible to receive benefits under this Plan only if
the person satisfies any of the following requirements:   

   (A)          The person becomes a retiree pursuant to section
4.1(A) (relating to age, service and LTD-eligibility requirements) or section
4.1(D) (relating to retiree grow-ins in connection with certain divestments) of
the ExxonMobil Common Provisions; or   

   (B)          The person becomes a qualified plans retiree within
the meaning of the ExxonMobil Pension Plan.   

   2.2             Benefit
Formula    

   (A)             In General    

   Except as provided in paragraph (B) below with respect
to former Mobil employees, as defined in the ExxonMobil Common Provisions,
( Former Mobil Employees ), as to any Pension Plan participant eligible for
payment under this Plan, the value of the payments under this Plan is an amount
that when added to the normal form amount that can be paid to the participant
from the Pension Plan's qualified funded assets, produces a sum equal to the
total normal form amount to which the participant would be entitled computed
under the Pension Plan formula applicable to that participant disregarding any
reductions, restrictions, or limitations brought about by the application of
Code sections 415 and 401(a)(17), reduced, but not below zero, by the following
amounts:   

   (1)           the amount, if any, payable to the
participant under the ExxonMobil Key Employee Supplemental Pension Plan, and   

   (2)           the amount, if any, payable to the
participant under the ExxonMobil Key Employee Additional Payments Plan that is
not applied as an offset against the participant's benefit under the ExxonMobil
Additional Payments Plan.   

   Where relevant, this computation is performed after
taking into account any entitlement the participant may have under the Overseas
Contributory Annuity Plan. The resulting benefit is expressed in the form of a
monthly five-year-certain and life annuity for the life of the participant
commencing at the participant s age 65 ( Normal Retirement Age ).   

   (B)             Benefit Formula for Former Mobil
Employee    

   The payments under this Plan for Former Mobil
Employees who retire with eligibility for Incentive Pension Benefits under the
ExxonMobil Additional Payments Plan shall be the amounts determined under
paragraph (1) below and, if applicable, paragraph (2) below.   

   (1)              In General    

   The amount benefit determined under this paragraph (1)
shall be the lesser of:   

   (a)           the amount of the person s benefit
otherwise determined under paragraph (A) above, or   

   (b)           the excess if any of the person s
Overall Benefit Objective as described in section 2.3(B) of the ExxonMobil
Additional Payments Plan, over the sum of the person s benefit under the
ExxonMobil Pension Plan (including any Pre-Social Security Benefit) and the
person s Incentive Pension Benefit and Nonqualified PSSP Benefit, if any, as
determined under the ExxonMobil Additional Payments Plan,   

   expressed in the form of a monthly five-year-certain
and life annuity for the life of the participant commencing at the
participant s Normal Retirement Age.    

   (2)              Nonqualified PSSP Benefits    

1       

The amount of a person s
benefit determined under this paragraph (2) shall be the amount, if any, of any
Nonqualified PSSP Benefit determined for such person under the terms of the
ExxonMobil Additional Payments Plan.   

2.3             Offsets
for Other Pension Benefits    

   A person s benefit determined under section 2.2 shall
be offset, but not below zero, by any benefit payable to the person under (A)
an offsetting pension that is not qualified under the terms of the U.S.
Internal Revenue Code, (B) a separation payment offset, or (C) a non-U.S.
governmental pension offset, as such terms are defined under the ExxonMobil
Pension Plan.   

2.4             Plan
Administrator Discretion    

   The procedure for calculating the benefit for former
Mobil employees under section 2.2 above, and for determining the application of
the offsets for other pension benefits under section 2.3 above, shall be
determined in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Plan Administrator.   

3.    Payment of
Benefits    

3.1             Timing
of Payment    

   (A)             In General    

   Except as provided in paragraph (B) or (C) below,
payment of the benefit described in article 2 above shall occur as soon as
practicable following the later to occur of the following:   

   (1)           the person s retirement from ExxonMobil;   

   (2)           in the case of a person who, immediately
prior to his or her retirement, has a Classification Level of 36 or above ( Key
Employee ), the six-month anniversary of the person s retirement;   

   (B)             Retirement Prior to Age 55    

   In the case of a person who retires from ExxonMobil on
account of long-term disability prior to the first of the month in which the
person attains age 55, payment of the benefit described in article 2 above
shall occur on the first of the month in which the person attains age 55, or as
soon as practicable thereafter.   

3.2             Reduction
for Early Commencement    

   If payments under this Plan commence prior to the
month in which the person reaches Normal Retirement Age, they are reduced by
applying the early commencement factors specified under the Pension Plan for a
benefit commencing at the person s then age.    

3.3             Form
of Payment    

   Payment of the benefit described in article 2 above
shall be made in a lump sum that is the actuarial equivalent of the
five-year-certain and life annuity calculated under section 2.2(A) or 2.2(B)(1)
or the actuarial equivalent of the PSSP benefit calculated under 2.2(B)(2). For
this purpose, actuarial equivalence shall be determined by the Plan
Administrator using the factors and procedures that are used for the
calculation of the lump-sum payment option under the Pension Plan.   

3.4             Adjustment
for Key Employees    

   If payment of a Key Employee s benefit is delayed for
six months following termination or retirement because of the requirement set
out in section 3.1(A)(2) above, then instead of the lump-sum benefit calculated
under section 3.3 above, the person shall receive a lump-sum benefit equal to
the greater of the following:   

   (A)          The lump-sum payment that would otherwise
have been calculated for the person under section 3.3 above as if he were not a
Key Employee, based on the payment date that would have applied to the
individual if he were not a Key employee and on the actuarial factors
applicable as of such date under the ExxonMobil Pension Plan, plus interest for
the period of delayed payment; or   

   (B)          A lump-sum that is the actuarial
equivalent of the person s five-year-certain and life annuity calculated as of
the delayed payment date and using the actuarial factors applicable as of the
six-month anniversary of the person s retirement date.   

   Interest shall be credited under paragraph (A) above,
at a rate equal to the Citibank prime lending rate in effect on the date the
person separates from employment.   

2       

4.    Death Benefit    

4.1             Benefits Payable On Account of Death    

   (A)             In General    

   In the event a portion of a pension death benefit or a
 career annuity subject to deferred commencement that commences by reason of
death  that becomes payable under the terms of the Pension Plan on account of
the death of a participant cannot be paid from the Pension Plan because of the
application of Code sections 415 and 401(a)(17), a lump-sum death benefit of
equivalent value shall be paid to the participant s beneficiary (as determined
under section 4.2 below) under this Plan. For this purpose, equivalent value
shall be determined by the Plan Administrator using the factors and procedures
that are used for the calculation of similar benefits under the Pension Plan.   

   (B)             Excluded Benefits    

   Neither the Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity
payment option, nor the Surviving Spouse Annuity benefit, as such are provided
for under the Pension Plan, are provided as benefits under this Plan.   

4.2             Designation
of Beneficiaries    

   (A)             In General    

   A person may name one or more designated beneficiaries
to receive the benefits payable under this Plan under section 4.1 above in the
event of the person's death. Beneficiary designations shall be made in
accordance with such procedures as the Plan Administrator may establish. Spousal
consent to any designation is not required.   

     (B)             Default
Beneficiaries    

   (1)              In General    

   If no specific designation is in effect, the
deceased s beneficiary is the person or persons in the first of the following
classes of successive beneficiaries living at the time of death of the
deceased:   

   (a)           spouse;   

   (b)           children who survive the participant or
who die before the participant leaving children of their own who survive the
participant;   

   (c)           parents;   

   (d)           brothers and sisters who survive the
participant or who die before the participant leaving children of their own who
survive the participant.   

   If there are no members of any class of such
beneficiaries, payment is made to the deceased's executors or administrators.   

   (2)              Allocation among Default
Beneficiaries    

   If the same class of beneficiaries under paragraph (1)
above contains two or more persons, they share equally, with further
subdivision of such equal shares as next provided. In class (b), where a child
dies before the participant leaving children who survive the participant, such
child's share is subdivided equally among those children. In class (d), where a
brother or sister dies before the participant leaving children who survive the
participant, such brother or sister's share is subdivided equally among those
children.   

   (3)              Definitions     

   For purposes of this section 4.2,  child 
means a person's son or daughter by legitimate blood relationship or legal
adoption;  parent  means a person's father or mother by legitimate
blood relationship or legal adoption;  brother  or  sister 
means another child of either or both of one's parents.   

5.    Miscellaneous     

5.1             Administration of Plan    

   The Plan Administrator shall be the Manager,
Compensation, Benefit Plans and Policies, Human Resources Department, Exxon
Mobil Corporation. The Plan Administrator shall have the right and authority to
conclusively interpret this Plan for all purposes, including the determination
of any person s eligibility for benefits hereunder and the resolution of any
and all appeals relating to claims by participants or beneficiaries, with any such
interpretation being conclusive for all participants and beneficiaries.   

5.2             Nature
of Payments    

   Payments provided under this Plan are considered
general obligations of the Corporation.   

5.3             Assignment
or Alienation    

3       

Except as provided in
section 5.5 below, payments provided under this Plan may not be assigned or
otherwise alienated or pledged.   

5.4             Amendment
or Termination    

   The Corporation reserves the right to amend or
terminate this Plan, in whole or in part, including the right at any time to
reduce or eliminate any accrued benefits hereunder and to alter or amend the
benefit formula set out herein.   

5.5             Forfeiture
of Benefits    

   No person shall be entitled to receive payments under
this Plan and any payments received under this Plan shall be forfeited and
returned if it is determined by the Corporation in its sole discretion, acting
through its chief executive or such person or committee as the chief executive
may designate, that a person otherwise entitled to a payment under this Plan or
who has commenced receiving payments under this Plan:   

   (A)          engaged in gross misconduct harmful to
the Corporation,    

   (B)          committed a criminal violation harmful to
the Corporation,    

   (C)          had concealed actions described in
paragraph (A) or (B) above which would have brought about termination from
employment thereby making the person ineligible for benefits under this Plan,    

   (D)          separated from service prior to attaining
Normal Retirement Age without having received from the Corporation or its
delegatee prior written approval for such termination, given in the sole
discretion of the Corporation or its delegatee and in the context of
recognition that benefits under this Plan would not be forfeited upon such
termination, or   

   (E)           had been terminated for cause.   

4       

KEY EMPLOYEE SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN    

K1.    Purpose     

This Plan
provides payments from the general assets of Exxon Mobil Corporation
( Corporation ) to those persons who, as of December 31, 1993,   

   (A)          were classified at level 36 or above,   

   (B)          were age 50 and above, and    

   (C)          were participants in the Annuity Plan of
Exxon Corporation ( Annuity Plan ) and who, because of the application of
United States Internal Revenue Code ( Code ) sections 415 and 401(a)(17), would
have been precluded from receiving from Annuity Plan funded assets all the
payments to which they would otherwise be entitled under the Annuity Plan's
formula.    

   This Plan
expresses the Corporation's commitment to provide such equivalent payments and
sets forth the method for doing so.   

K2.    Benefits     

K2.1          Benefit
Formula    

   As to any participant eligible for payment under this
Plan, the value of such payments shall be an amount that when added to the
normal form amount that could have been paid to the participant from the
Annuity Plan's qualified funded assets, produces a sum equal to the total
normal form amount to which the participant would have been entitled computed
under the Annuity Plan formula applicable to that participant as of December
31, 1993, disregarding any reductions, restrictions, or limitations brought
about by Code sections 415 and 401(a)(17). Where relevant, all computations
will take into account any entitlement the participant may have under the Overseas
Contributory Annuity Plan. A participant in this Plan shall have a
non-forfeitable right to this amount.   

K2.2          Benefit
Payable On Account of Death    

   (A)             Death Benefit    

   In the event a pension death benefit is payable under
the terms of the ExxonMobil Pension Plan ( Pension Plan ) on account of the
death of a participant, a death benefit shall be payable under this Plan equal
to the lump-sum value of the benefit that would have been payable under section
K2.1 above to the participant if the participant had not died but had
terminated employment and had elected to commence his or her benefit as of the
date of death.    

   (B)             Deferred Annuity Death Benefit    

   In the event a  Career Annuity subject to deferred
commencement that commences by reason of death  is payable under the terms of
the Pension Plan on account of the death of a participant, a similar benefit
shall be payable under this Plan based on the benefit that would have been
payable under section K2.1 above to the participant if the participant had not
died.   

   (C)             Calculation Methodology    

   The exact nature and amounts of any benefit payable
under paragraph (A) or (B) shall be determined under a methodology established
from time to time by the Plan Administrator.   

   (D)             Excluded Benefits    

   Specifically excluded from coverage and entitlement
under this Plan are:   

   (1)           the legally mandated Qualified Joint and
Survivor Annuity, and    

   (2)           the right to elect a Surviving Spouse
Annuity   

   as such are established for married participants in
the Pension Plan.   

K3.    Beneficiaries     

K3.1          Designation
of Beneficiaries    

   A person entitled to receive benefits under this Plan
may name one or more designated beneficiaries to receive the benefits payable
under this Plan under section K2.2 above in the event of the person's death in
accordance with such procedures as the Plan Administrator may establish. Spousal
consent to any designation is not required.   

K3.2          Default
Beneficiaries    

   (A)             In General    

   If no specific designation is in effect, the
deceased s beneficiary is the person or persons in the first of the following
classes of successive beneficiaries living at the time of death of the
deceased:   

5       

(1)           spouse;   

   (2)           children who survive the participant or
who die before the participant leaving children of their own who survive the
participant;   

   (3)           parents;   

   (4)           brothers and sisters who survive the
participant or who die before the participant leaving children of their own who
survive the participant.   

   If there are no members of any class of such
beneficiaries, payment is made to the deceased's executors or administrators.   

   (B)             Allocation among Default Beneficiaries    

   If the same class of beneficiaries under paragraph (A)
above contains two or more persons, they share equally, with further
subdivision of such equal shares as next provided. In class (2), where a child
dies before the participant leaving children who survive the participant, such
child's share shall be subdivided equally among those children. In class (4),
where a brother or sister dies before the participant leaving children who
survive the participant, such brother or sister's share shall be subdivided
equally among those children.   

   (C)             Definitions     

   For purposes of this section K3.2,  child 
means a person's son or daughter by legitimate blood relationship or legal
adoption;  parent  means a person's father or mother by legitimate
blood relationship or legal adoption;  brother  or  sister 
means another child of either or both of one's parents.   

K4.    Payment
of Benefits    

K4.1          Commencement
of Benefits    

   (A)             In General    

   Payments under this Plan occur at the same time as
payments under the ExxonMobil Supplemental Pension Plan commence.    

   (B)             Reduction for Early Commencement    

   If payments under this Plan commence prior to the
month in which the person reaches age 65, they are reduced by applying the
early commencement factors for retirees set forth in the Pension Plan for a
normal maturity age of 65. For all actuarial purposes, this monthly amount paid
as a five-year certain life annuity is deemed the normal form amount.    

K4.2          Form
of Payment    

   Payments under this Plan shall be made in the form of
a lump sum that is the actuarial equivalent of the five-year-certain and life
annuity in which the normal form of benefit is expressed. For this purpose,
actuarial equivalency shall be determined by the Plan Administrator using the
factors used for comparable determinations under the Pension Plan.   

K5.    Miscellaneous     

K5.1          Administration
of Plan    

   The Plan Administrator shall be the Manager,
Compensation, Benefit Plans and Policies, Human Resources Department,
ExxonMobil Corporation. The Plan Administrator shall have the right and
authority to conclusively interpret this Plan for all purposes, including the
determination of any person s eligibility for benefits hereunder and the
resolution of any and all appeals relating to claims by participants or
beneficiaries, with any such interpretation being conclusive for all
participants and beneficiaries.   

K5.2          Nature
of Payments    

   Payments provided under this Plan shall be considered
general obligations of the Corporation.   

K5.3          Assignment
or Alienation    

   Payments provided under this Plan may not be assigned
or otherwise alienated or pledged.   

K5.4          Amendment
or Termination    

   The Corporation reserves the right to amend or
terminate this Plan, in whole or in part, so long as the amendment does not
deprive any person of the non-forfeitable right to benefits specifically
granted in this Plan.   

6       

</EX-10.(III) (C2)>

<EX-10.(III) (F3)>
 6
 xom10iiif3.htm
 FORM OF RESTRICTED STOCK GRANT LETTER FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS

EXHIBIT
10(iii)(f.3)   

[Name
of Non-Employee Director]  

I
am pleased to inform you that on January 2, 2015, you were granted 2,500 shares
of restricted stock under Exxon Mobil Corporation's 2004 Non-Employee Director
Restricted Stock Plan (the  Plan ) and in accordance with the Board's
standing resolution regarding grants under the Plan.  This letter summarizes
key terms of your award and is qualified by reference to the Plan.  You should
refer to the text of the Plan for a detailed description of the terms and
conditions of your award.  Copies of the Plan have been previously distributed
to you and are also available on request to me at any time.  

The
restricted stock has been registered in your name and will be held in
book-entry form by the Corporation's agent during the restricted period.  As
the owner of record, you have the right to vote the shares and receive cash
dividends.  However, during the restricted period the shares may not be sold,
assigned, transferred, pledged, or otherwise disposed of or encumbered, and
your restricted stock account will be subject to stop transfer instructions.    

The
restricted period for this award began at the time of grant.  The restricted
period will expire when you leave the Board after reaching retirement age
(currently, age 72) or by reason of death.  If you leave the Board before reaching
retirement age, your restricted stock will be forfeited unless the Board
determines to lift the restrictions at that time.  

If
and when the restricted period expires, shares will be delivered to or for your
account free of restrictions.  

You
are entitled to designate a beneficiary for your restricted stock account. 
Please contact Jerry Miller at (972) 444-4004 for the necessary form should you
wish to do so.  

By
accepting this award you agree to all its terms and conditions, including the
restrictions on transfer and events of forfeiture.  

Additional
information concerning your award, including information on the tax
consequences of your award and certain additional information required by the
Securities Act of 1933, is also enclosed with this letter.  

Any
questions that you may have concerning the Plan or this award should be
addressed to me.   

Sincerely,  

[signed
by Jeffrey J. Woodbury]  

   Enclosures                                                                  

</EX-10.(III) (F3)>

<EX-12>
 7
 xomexhibit12.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

EXHIBIT 12    

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 8
 xomexhibit21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

EXHIBIT
21   

   Subsidiaries of the Registrant (1), (2) and (3)   at
December 31, 2014   

Percentage of  
    Voting Securities  
    Owned Directly  
    or Indirectly by  
    Registrant  

State or  
    Country of
  Organization  

Abu Dhabi Petroleum Company Limited (5)  

23.75  

United Kingdom  

Aera Energy LLC (5)  

48.2  

California  

AKG Marketing Company Limited   

87.5  

Bahamas  

Al-Jubail Petrochemical Company (4) (5)   

50  

Saudi Arabia  

Ampolex (CEPU) Pte Ltd  

100  

Singapore  

Ancon Insurance Company, Inc.   

100  

Vermont  

Barnett Gathering, LLC   

100  

Texas  

Barzan Gas Company Limited (5)   

7  

Qatar  

BEB Erdgas und Erdoel GmbH   Co. KG (4) (5)  

50   

Germany  

Cameroon Oil Transportation Company S.A. (5)   

41.06  

Cameroon  

Canada Imperial Oil Limited  

69.6  

Canada  

Caspian Pipeline Consortium (5)    

7.5  

Russia/Kazakhstan  

Chalmette Refining, LLC (4) (5)    

50  

Delaware  

Cross Timbers Energy, LLC (4) (5)  

50   

Delaware  

Cross Timbers Energy Services, Inc.   

100   

Texas  

Ellora Energy Inc.   

100   

Delaware  

Esso Australia Resources Pty Ltd   

100  

Australia  

Esso Deutschland GmbH   

100  

Germany  

Esso Erdgas Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH   

100  

Germany  

Esso Exploration and Production Angola (Overseas)
  Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

Esso Exploration and Production Chad Inc.   

100  

Bahamas  

Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria (Deepwater)
  Limited  

100  

Nigeria  

Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria (Offshore
  East) Limited  

100  

Nigeria  

Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria Limited  

100  

Nigeria  

Esso Exploration and Production UK Limited   

100  

United Kingdom  

Esso Exploration Angola (Block 15) Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

Esso Exploration Angola (Block 17) Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

Esso Italiana S.r.l.   

100   

Italy  

Esso Nederland B.V.   

100  

Netherlands  

Esso Norge AS    

100  

Norway  

Esso Petroleum Company, Limited   

100  

United Kingdom  

Esso Pipeline Investments Limited   

100  

Bahamas  

Esso Raffinage    

82.89  

France  

Esso Societe Anonyme Francaise   

82.89  

France  

Esso (Thailand) Public Company Limited    

65.99  

Thailand  

Esso Trading Company of Abu Dhabi    

100  

Delaware  

Exxon Azerbaijan Limited    

100  

Bahamas  

Exxon Chemical Arabia Inc.   

100  

Delaware  

Exxon Mobile Bay Limited Partnership  

100  

Delaware  

Exxon Neftegas Limited    

100  

Bahamas  

Exxon Overseas Corporation   

100  

Delaware  

Exxon Overseas Investment Corporation   

100  

Delaware  

1   

Percentage of  
    Voting
  Securities  
    Owned Directly  
    or Indirectly by  
    Registrant  

State or  
    Country of
  Organization  

ExxonMobil Abu Dhabi Offshore Petroleum Company
  Limited   

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Alaska Production Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.    

100  

Singapore  

ExxonMobil Barzan Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Business Finance Company   

100  

Nevada  

ExxonMobil Canada Energy    

100  

Canada  

ExxonMobil Canada Ltd.    

100  

Canada  

ExxonMobil Canada Properties    

100  

Canada  

ExxonMobil Canada Resources Compa  ny    

100  

Canada  

ExxonMobil Capital Netherlands B.V.   

100  

Netherlands  

ExxonMobil Central Europe Holding GmbH   

100  

Germany  

ExxonMobil Cepu Limited  

100  

Bermuda  

ExxonMobil Chemical France     

100  

France  

ExxonMobil Chemical Holland B.V.    

100  

Netherlands  

ExxonMobil Chemical Limited    

100  

United Kingdom  

ExxonMobil China Petroleum   Petrochemical Company
  Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Development Company   

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Energy Limited    

100  

Hong Kong  

ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Malaysia Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Norway AS    

100  

Norway  

ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Romania Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Tanzania Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Finance Company Limited   

100  

United Kingdom  

ExxonMobil Financial Services B.V.    

100  

Netherlands  

ExxonMobil Gas Marketing Europe Limited    

100  

United Kingdom  

ExxonMobil Global Services Company    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Holding Company Holland LLC    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Hong Kong Limited    

100  

Hong Kong  

ExxonMobil International Finance Company    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil International Services SARL  

100  

Luxembourg  

ExxonMobil Iraq Limited   

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Italiana Gas S.r.l.    

100   

Italy  

ExxonMobil Kazakhstan Inc.  

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Kazakhstan Ventures Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Kurdistan Region of Iraq Limited    

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Oil Corporation    

100  

New York  

ExxonMobil Petroleum   Chemical BVBA  

100  

Belgium  

ExxonMobil Pipeline Company    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil PNG Limited  

100  

Papua New Guinea  

ExxonMobil Producing Netherlands B.V.   

100  

Netherlands  

ExxonMobil Production Deutschland GmbH    

100  

Germany  

ExxonMobil Production Norway Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Qatargas Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Qatargas (II) Limited    

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Qatargas (II) Terminal Company Limited    

100  

Bahamas  

2   

Percentage of  
    Voting
  Securities  
    Owned Directly  
    or Indirectly by  
    Registrant  

State or  
    Country of
  Organization  

ExxonMobil Ras Laffan (III) Limited    

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Rasgas Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Research and Engineering Company  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Sales and Supply LLC    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Technology Finance Company                 

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Ventures Funding Ltd.                 

100  

Bahamas  

Fujian Refining   Petrochemical Co. Ltd. (5)    

25  

China  

Golden Pass LNG Terminal Investments LLC  

100  

Delaware  

Golden Pass LNG Terminal LLC (5)    

17.6  

Delaware  

Imperial Oil Limited    

69.6  

Canada  

Imperial Oil (an Ontario General Partnership)  

69.6  

Canada  

Imperial Oil Resources (an Alberta limited
  partnership)    

69.6  

Canada  

Imperial Oil Resources N.W.T. Limited    

69.6  

Canada  

Imperial Oil Resources Ventures Limited  

69.6  

Canada  

Infineum Holdings B.V. (5)    

50  

Netherlands  

Infineum USA L.P. (5)   

50  

Delaware  

Karmorneftegaz Holding SARL (5)   

33.33  

Luxembourg  

Mobil Australia Resources Company Pty Limited   

100  

Australia  

Marine Well Containment Company LLC (5)  

10  

Delaware  

McColl-Frontenac Petroleum Inc.  

69.6  

Canada  

Mobil California Exploration   Producing Asset
  Company   

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Caspian Pipeline Company    

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Cerro Negro, Ltd.    

100  

Bahamas  

Mobil Corporation    

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Equatorial Guinea Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Erdgas-Erdoel GmbH    

100  

Germany  

Mobil Exploration Indonesia Inc.    

100  

Cayman Islands  

Mobil Oil Australia Pty Ltd   

100  

Australia  

Mobil Oil Exploration   Producing Southeast Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Oil New Zealand Limited   

100  

New Zealand  

Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited    

100  

Nigeria  

Mobil Producing Texas   New Mexico Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Yanbu Petrochemical Company Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Yanbu Refining Company Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

Mountain Gathering, LLC    

100  

Delaware  

Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij B.V. (4) (5)    

50  

Netherlands  

Palmetto Transoceanic LLC   

100  

Delaware  

Papua New Guinea Liquefied Natural Gas Global Company
  LDC (5)   

33.2  

Bahamas  

Phillips Exploration, LLC    

100  

Delaware  

Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (5)   

10  

Qatar  

Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (2) (5)  

24.15  

Qatar  

Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (5)   

24.999  

Qatar  

3   

Percentage of  
    Voting
  Securities  
    Owned Directly  
    or Indirectly by  
    Registrant  

State or  
    Country of
  Organization  

Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (II)
  (5)    

30.517  

Qatar  

Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (3)
  (5)  

30  

Qatar  

Saudi Aramco Mobil Refinery Company Ltd. (4) (5)    

50  

Saudi Arabia  

Saudi Yanbu Petrochemical Co. (4) (5)  

50  

Saudi Arabia  

South Hook LNG Terminal Company Limited (5)  

24.15  

United Kingdom  

Tengizchevroil, LLP (5)  

25  

Kazakhstan  

Terminale GNL Adriatico S.r.l (5)    

70.678   

Italy  

Trend Gathering   Treating, LLC  

100  

Texas  

Wolverine Pipe Line Company   

53.39  

Delaware  

XH, LLC   

100  

Delaware  

XTO Energy Canada  

84.80  

Canada  

XTO Energy Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

______________  

  NOTES:  

(1)  

For
  the purposes of this list, if the registrant owns directly or indirectly
  approximately 50 percent of the voting securities of any person and
  approximately 50 percent of the voting securities of such person is owned
  directly or indirectly by another interest, or if the registrant includes its
  share of net income of any other unconsolidated person in consolidated net
  income, such person is deemed to be a subsidiary.  

(2)  

With
  respect to certain companies, shares in names of nominees and qualifying shares
  in names of directors are included in the above percentages.  

(3)

The
  names of other subsidiaries have been omitted from the above list since
  considered in the aggregate, they would not constitute a significant
  subsidiary under Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-X, Rule
  1-02(w).  

(4)  

The
  registrant owns directly or indirectly approximately 50 percent of the
  securities of this person and approximately 50 percent of the voting
  securities of this person is owned directly or indirectly by another single
  interest.  

(5)  

The
  investment in this unconsolidated person is represented by the registrant's
  percentage interest in the underlying net assets of such person. The
  accounting for these unconsolidated persons is referred to as the equity
  method of accounting.  

4   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 9
 xomexhibit23.htm
 CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

EXHIBIT 23    

CONSENT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the
following   Exxon Mobil Corporation Registration
Statements on:    

Form S-3 (No. 333-167787)                   XTO Energy Inc. 2004
Stock Incentive Plan;   

Form S-3 (No. 333-194609)                   Exxon Mobil
Corporation Debt Securities;   

Form S-8 (Nos. 333-101175,                  1993 Incentive Program
of Exxon Mobil Corporation;   

                           333-38917,                              

                           33-51107,    

                           and 333-75659)                      

Form S-8 (Nos. 333-145188,                  2003 Incentive Program
of Exxon Mobil Corporation;   

                           333-110494,   

                                and   333-183012)   

Form S-8 (Nos. 333-72955                     ExxonMobil Savings
Plan;   

                           and 333-166576)   

Form S-8 (No. 333-117980)                   2004 Non-employee
Director Restricted Stock Plan;   

Form S-8 (No. 333-164620)                   Post-effective
amendment no. 1 on Form S-8 to Form S-4   

                                                                           relating
to XTO Energy Inc. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan and   

                                                                           2004
Incentive Plan   

of our report dated February 25, 2015, relating to the financial
statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
which appears in this Form 10-K.   

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP   

Dallas, Texas   

   February 25, 2015   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 10
 xomexhibit311.htm
 CERTIFICATION (PURSUANT TO SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13A-14(A)) BY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

EXHIBIT 31.1   

Certification by Rex W. Tillerson   

   Pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule
13a-    14(a)    

I,
Rex W. Tillerson, certify that:  

1.           I have reviewed
this annual report on Form 10-K of Exxon Mobil Corporation;  

2.           Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.           Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.           The registrant s
other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant
and have:  

(a)         Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)      
  Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)         Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)         Disclosed in
this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and  

5.           The registrant's
other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or
persons performing the equivalent functions):  

(a)         All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and  

(b)         Any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: February 25,
  2015    

/s/ 
  REX W. TILLERSON  

Rex
  W. Tillerson  

Chief
  Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 11
 xomexhibit312.htm
 CERTIFICATION (PURSUANT TO SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13A-14(A)) BY PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

EXHIBIT 31.2   

Certification by Andrew P. Swiger   

   Pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule
13a-    14(a)    

I,
Andrew P. Swiger, certify that:  

1.           I have reviewed
this annual report on Form 10-K of Exxon Mobil Corporation;  

2.           Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.           Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.           The registrant s
other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant
and have:  

(a)         Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)      
  Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)         Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)         Disclosed in
this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and  

5.           The registrant's
other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or
persons performing the equivalent functions):  

(a)         All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and  

(b)         Any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: February
  25, 2015    

/s/ 
  ANDREW P. SWIGER  

Andrew P. Swiger   

Senior Vice President  

(Principal Financial Officer)  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-31.3>
 12
 xomexhibit313.htm
 CERTIFICATION (PURSUANT TO SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13A-14(A)) BY PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER

EXHIBIT 31.3   

Certification by David S. Rosenthal   

   Pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule
13a-    14(a)    

I,
David S. Rosenthal, certify that:  

1.           I have reviewed
this annual report on Form 10-K of Exxon Mobil Corporation;  

2.           Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

3.           Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report;   

4.           The registrant s
other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant
and have:   

(a)         Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)      
  Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)         Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)         Disclosed in
this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and   

5.           The registrant's
other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or
persons performing the equivalent functions):  

(a)         All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and  

(b)         Any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: February 25,
  2015   

/s/  DAVID S. ROSENTHAL  

David S. Rosenthal  

Vice President and Controller  

(Principal Accounting Officer)  

</EX-31.3>

<EX-32.1>
 13
 xomexhibit321.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION (PURSUANT TO SARBANES-OXLEY SECTION 906) BY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

EXHIBIT 32.1   

Certification of Periodic
Financial Report   

   Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350   

For purposes of 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned, Rex
W. Tillerson, the chief executive officer of Exxon Mobil Corporation (the
 Company ), hereby certifies that, to his knowledge:  

(i)        
  the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended
December 31, 2014, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the
date hereof (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and   

(ii)         the
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

Date: February
  25, 2015  

/s/  REX W. TILLERSON  

Rex W. Tillerson  

Chief Executive Officer  

A signed original of this written statement required by Section
906 has been provided to Exxon Mobil Corporation and will be retained by Exxon
Mobil Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or
its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 14
 xomexhibit322.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION (PURSUANT TO SARBANES-OXLEY SECTION 906) BY PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

EXHIBIT 32.2   

Certification of Periodic
Financial Report   

   Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350   

For purposes of 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned,
Andrew P. Swiger, the principal financial officer of Exxon Mobil Corporation
(the  Company ), hereby certifies that, to his knowledge:   

(i)        
  the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended
December 31, 2014, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the
date hereof (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and   

(ii)         the
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

Date: February 25,
  2015    

/s/  ANDREW P. SWIGER  

Andrew P. Swiger  

Senior Vice President  

(Principal Financial Officer)  

A signed original of this written statement required by Section
906 has been provided to Exxon Mobil Corporation and will be retained by Exxon
Mobil Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or
its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.2>

<EX-32.3>
 15
 xomexhibit323.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION (PURSUANT TO SARBANES-OXLEY SECTION 906) BY PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER

EXHIBIT 32.3   

Certification of Periodic
Financial Report   

   Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350   

For purposes of 18
U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002, the undersigned, David S. Rosenthal, the principal accounting
officer of Exxon Mobil Corporation (the  Company ), hereby certifies that, to
his knowledge:   

(i)        
  the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended
December 31, 2014, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the
date hereof (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and   

(ii)         the
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

Date: February 25,
  2015    

/s/  DAVID S. ROSENTHAL  

David S. Rosenthal  

Vice President and Controller  

(Principal Accounting Officer)  

A signed original of this written statement required by Section
906 has been provided to Exxon Mobil Corporation and will be retained by Exxon
Mobil Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or
its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.3>

<EX-101.INS>
 22
 xom-20141231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 23
 xom-20141231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 24
 xom-20141231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 25
 xom-20141231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 26
 xom-20141231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 27
 xom-20141231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

