<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090302_10-K_edgar_data_1099219_0000950123-09-003725_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>7045422</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1893932</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>2476</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3736062</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>256</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>21</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-09-003725.hdr.sgml : 20091002

<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090227202055

<PRIVATE-TO-PUBLIC>

ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-09-003725

CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K

PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		24

CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231

FILED AS OF DATE:		20090302

DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090818


FILER:


	COMPANY DATA:	

		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			METLIFE INC

		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001099219

		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	INSURANCE AGENTS BROKERS & SERVICES [6411]

		IRS NUMBER:				134075851

		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE

		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231



	FILING VALUES:

		FORM TYPE:		10-K

		SEC ACT:		1934 Act

		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-15787

		FILM NUMBER:		09645100



	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		1095 AVENUE OF AMERICAS

		CITY:			NEW YORK

		STATE:			NY

		ZIP:			10036

		BUSINESS PHONE:		212-578-5500



	MAIL ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		1095 AVENUE OF AMERICAS

		CITY:			NEW YORK

		STATE:			NY

		ZIP:			10036




</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Mii796yU0DfUxJKhwTNqkF5IhKEn7ejb/C6H6wYkM9rns14CXr5NXf+hzp5NzrRd
 j1jV3IGz1bueNcf0HCIW2Q==

 0000950123-09-003725.txt : 20091002

10-K
 1
 y74655e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

10-K 

Table of Contents   

UNITED
    STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
     Washington, D.C.
    20549   

Form 10-K   

Commission file number
     001-15787  

MetLife, Inc.  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Title of each class 

Name of each exchange on which registered 

Common Stock, par value $0.01

New York Stock Exchange

Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, par
    value $0.01

New York Stock Exchange

6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B, par value
    $0.01

New York Stock Exchange

5.875% Senior Notes

New York Stock Exchange

5.375% Senior Notes

Irish Stock Exchange

5.25% Senior Notes

Irish Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has
    filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
    15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
    preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
    registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
    been subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    (  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
    and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s
    knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
    incorporated by reference in Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer

Accelerated filer

Non-accelerated filer

Smaller reporting company

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange
    Act).  Yes         No   

The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common
    equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of
    June 30, 2008 was approximately $37 billion. As of
    February 20, 2009, 818,081,294 shares of the
    registrant s common stock were outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

The information required to be furnished pursuant to part of
    Item 10 and Item 11 through Item 14 of
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    is set forth in, and is hereby incorporated by reference herein
    from, the registrant s definitive proxy statement for the
    Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 28,
    2009, to be filed by the registrant with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A not later
    than 120 days after the year ended December 31,
    2008. 

Table Of
    Contents  

Page 

Number 

Part I  

Item 1. 

Business 

3

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

31

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

59

Item 2. 

Properties 

59

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings 

60

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders 

65

Part II  

Item 5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities 

66

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data 

68

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

72

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

237

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

247

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

248

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

248

Item 9B. 

Other Information 

250

Part III  

Item 10. 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance 

251

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation 

251

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

251

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

252

Item 14. 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

252

Part IV  

Item 15. 

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

253

Signatures  

254

Exhibit Index  

E-1

EX-4.5: FIFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE    
     EX-4.6: SIXTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE    
     EX-10.4: FORM OF MANAGEMNET STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.7: FORM OF DIRECTOR STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.41: METLIFE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR OFFICERS    
     EX-10.47: AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO LEADERSHIP DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN    
     EX-10.48: DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR OUTSIDE DIRECTORS    
     EX-10.53: NON-MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN    
     EX-10.58: AMENDMENT #1 TO AUXILIARY PENSION PLAN    
     EX-10.59: AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO THE AUXILIARY PENSION PLAN    
     EX-10.69: AMENDMENT NO. 18 TO THE MPTA    
     EX-10.70: AMENDMENT NO. 19 TO THE MPTA    
     EX-10.71: AMENDMENT NO. 20 TO THE MPTA    
     EX-10.72: AMENDMENT NO. 21 TO THE MPTA    
     EX-12.1: STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES    
     EX-21.1: SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT    
     EX-23.1: CONSENT OF DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP    
     EX-31.1: CERTIFICATION    
     EX-31.2: CERTIFICATION    
     EX-32.1: CERTIFICATION    
     EX-32.2: CERTIFICATION    

Table of Contents   

Note
    Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  

This Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    including the Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations, may contain or
    incorporate by reference information that includes or is based
    upon forward-looking statements within the meaning of the
    Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
    Forward-looking statements give expectations or forecasts of
    future events. These statements can be identified by the fact
    that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
    They use words such as  anticipate, 
     estimate,   expect,   project, 
     intend,   plan,   believe  and
    other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with a
    discussion of future operating or financial performance. In
    particular, these include statements relating to future actions,
    prospective services or products, future performance or results
    of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts,
    expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal
    proceedings, trends in operations and financial results. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations. 

Note
    Regarding Reliance on Statements in Our Contracts  

In reviewing the agreements included as exhibits to this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    please remember that they are included to provide you with
    information regarding their terms and are not intended to
    provide any other factual or disclosure information about
    MetLife, Inc., its subsidiaries or the other parties to the
    agreements. The agreements contain representations and
    warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement.
    These representations and warranties have been made solely for
    the benefit of the other parties to the applicable agreement and:

should not in all instances be treated as categorical statements
    of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk to one of
    the parties if those statements prove to be inaccurate;

have been qualified by disclosures that were made to the other
    party in connection with the negotiation of the applicable
    agreement, which disclosures are not necessarily reflected in
    the agreement;

may apply standards of materiality in a way that is different
    from what may be viewed as material to investors; and

were made only as of the date of the applicable agreement or
    such other date or dates as may be specified in the agreement
    and are subject to more recent developments.

Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not
    describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were
    made or at any other time. Additional information about MetLife,
    Inc. and its subsidiaries may be found elsewhere in this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and MetLife, Inc. s other public filings, which are
    available without charge through the SEC s website at
    www.sec.gov.

2

Table of Contents   

Part I  

Item 1.      

Business   

As used in this
     Form 10-K, 
     MetLife,  the  Company,   we, 
     our  and  us  refer to MetLife, Inc., a
    Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999 (the  Holding
    Company ), and its subsidiaries, including Metropolitan
    Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ).

We are a leading provider of individual insurance, employee
    benefits and financial services with operations throughout the
    United States and the regions of Latin America, Europe, and Asia
    Pacific. Through our subsidiaries and affiliates, we offer life
    insurance, annuities, automobile and homeowners insurance,
    retail banking and other financial services to individuals, as
    well as group insurance and retirement   savings
    products and services to corporations and other institutions.

We are one of the largest insurance and financial services
    companies in the United States. Our franchises and brand names
    uniquely position us to be the preeminent provider of protection
    and savings and investment products in the United States. In
    addition, our international operations are focused on markets
    where the demand for insurance and savings and investment
    products is expected to grow rapidly in the future.

Our well-recognized brand names, leading market positions,
    competitive and innovative product offerings and financial
    strength and expertise should help drive future growth and
    enhance shareholder value, building on a long history of
    fairness, honesty and integrity.

Over the course of the next several years, we will pursue the
    following specific strategies to achieve our goals:

Build on widely recognized brand names 

Capitalize on a large customer base 

Enhance capital efficiency 

Expand distribution channels 

Continue to introduce innovative and competitive products 

Focus on international operations 

Maintain balanced focus on asset accumulation and protection
    products 

Manage operating expenses commensurate with revenue growth 

Further commit to a diverse workplace 

Capitalize on retirement income needs 

We are organized into four operating segments: Institutional,
    Individual, International and Auto   Home, as well as
    Corporate   Other. Revenues derived from any customer,
    or from any class of similar products or services, within each
    of these segments did not exceed 10% of consolidated revenues in
    any of the last three years. Financial information, including
    revenues, expenses, income and loss, and total assets by
    segment, is provided in Note 22 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Overview  

2008
    Market and Economic Events Impacting Our Business   

The U.S. and global financial markets experienced
    extraordinary dislocations during 2008, especially in the second
    half of the year, producing challenges for our company and the
    financial services industry generally. Concerns which had
    originally arisen over the value of subprime mortgage loans
    backing certain classes of mortgage-backed securities and other
    financial products and investment vehicles spread during the
    year to the financial services sector as a whole, as investors
    questioned the asset quality and capital strength of banks and
    other financial institutions that held these investments or were
    otherwise exposed to them. Beginning in the summer and
    continuing through the end of the year, these concerns in turn
    led to a dramatic increase in credit spreads,

3

Table of Contents   

particularly in the financial sector, and sharp drops in the
    market value of a wide range of financial instruments. Concerns
    over the creditworthiness of banks and other financial
    institutions also led to a severe contraction in lending
    activity, both among financial institutions and more generally,
    as lenders sought to increase their own liquidity to bolster
    their ability to withstand the stresses in the financial markets
    and to protect themselves against the loss of credit from other
    institutions. Many investors reduced or eliminated their
    holdings of asset-backed and corporate securities and purchased
    Treasury securities and other securities viewed as offering
    greater liquidity and credit quality, while investors in hedge
    funds and other collective investment vehicles sought to redeem
    their investments, requiring the funds to sell assets to satisfy
    redemption requests. During the third quarter and especially the
    fourth quarter, trading markets for certain kinds of financial
    instruments contracted severely or dried up altogether, further
    contributing to price declines, while concerns over the health
    of the economy and the possibility of defaults and bankruptcies
    also weighed on the value of debt securities. The application of
    fair value accounting principles in conditions of a dislocated
    market and low levels of liquidity brought into question the
    accuracy of fair valuations of certain securities.

As the crisis worsened, a number of significant, well-known
    financial institutions failed or required extraordinary
    government assistance to keep from failing. Investor concerns
    over the financial strength and solvency of financial
    institutions and the impact of the credit crisis on the economy
    also resulted in sharp declines in equity prices both within the
    financial services sector and in the broader stock market,
    especially in the last third of the year. The
    Standard   Poor s 500 Index fell 37% during the
    year, with the most dramatic declines occurring in the second
    half, and volatility of stock prices reached extraordinarily
    high levels. The stock prices of major life insurance companies,
    including ours, registered sharp declines, especially in the
    fourth quarter, driven by investor concerns over the quality of
    their investment assets, exposures to guarantees that protect
    the customer against declines in equity markets and their
    overall liquidity and financial strength.

Interest rates dropped significantly during the year and the
    yield curve grew steeper. The Federal Funds rate fell from 4.25%
    at the beginning of 2008 to a range of 0.0% to 0.25% at the end
    of 2008, while the yield on ten-year Treasury obligations
    decreased from 3.91% at the beginning of the year to 2.25% at
    the end of the year.

The financial market stress and concerns over economic weakness
    led the United States government and governments around the
    world to take unprecedented actions to shore up their economies
    and financial markets, including, in the United States, the
    reduction of the Federal Funds rate, a series of increasingly
    aggressive actions by the Federal Reserve to provide liquidity
    and avert failures of major financial institutions, the
    enactment of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 in
    October and the enactment of the American Recovery and
    Reinvestment Act, an economic stimulus bill, in February 2009. A
    number of foreign governments also took actions to support their
    economies and banking systems, while in Argentina the government
    nationalized their private pension system.

The stress in the financial markets and the impact of certain of
    these government stimulus measures may result in inflation or
    deflation, although at this point the ultimate outcome cannot be
    predicted.

During the second half of the year, the value of the dollar
    appreciated sharply against the British pound, the Euro, the
    Canadian dollar and other foreign currencies relevant to our
    operations, including the Mexican peso and the Korean won, while
    depreciating substantially against the Japanese yen.

Late in 2008, the National Bureau of Economic Research announced
    that the United States economy was in a recession that had
    started in December 2007. Globally, economic growth declined
    from 5.2% in 2007 to an estimated 3.4% in 2008, and is currently
    predicted to fall to 0.5% in 2009. In the United States,
    economic growth fell from 2.3% in 2007 to an estimated -0.2% in
    2008, and is currently projected to decline to -2.0% in 2009.
    Unemployment rose during 2008 from just below 5% at the
    beginning of the year to 7.6% at the end of 2008 with
    unemployment forecasted to rise to above 8.5% by the end of 2009.

Impact
    of 2008 Market and Economic Events on Our Business   

The financial market movements and economic events of 2008 had a
    significant impact on our results for the year. The impacts of
    the credit and equity markets had the most significant impact
    with the recession beginning to impact our business fundamentals.

4

Table of Contents   

Credit Market Impacts.   The widening of credit
    spreads on corporate debt instruments and concerns over the
    quality of assets underlying various mortgage-backed and
    asset-backed securities resulted in significant declines in the
    market value of many investment assets and a substantial
    increase in our gross unrealized losses on investments,
    especially in the third and fourth quarters. The conditions of
    reduced liquidity that prevailed toward the end of 2008
    presented challenges in determining when a decline in the market
    price of a security was due to reduced liquidity or an actual
    deterioration in creditworthiness of the issuer. As described
    below, we recognized impairment charges when we made a
    determination that the decline in market value of our
    investments was other than temporary. See
       Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Investments. 

Equity Market Impacts.   Declines in the equity
    markets had a number of significant effects on our results.
    First, these declines increased the costs of guaranteed minimum
    benefits on certain annuity contracts, which led to increases in
    policyholder benefits and claims in our Individual segment and
    caused significant losses on embedded derivatives in our
    Individual and International segments, which are reflected in
    net investment gains and losses as discussed in greater detail
    below. We have put in place freestanding derivatives to hedge
    our economic exposure to these embedded derivatives. In
    addition, equity market declines reduced separate account
    values, resulting in a decrease in fee income and an increase in
    amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs within our
    Individual segment. See    Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Policyholder Liabilities; Summary of
    Critical Accounting Estimates   Deferred Policy
    Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired;  and
       Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Results of Operations. 

Foreign Currency Impacts.   The appreciation of
    the dollar against other currencies in the second half of 2008,
    especially the British pound, the Euro and the Canadian dollar,
    had the effect of reducing our liabilities and assets for
    obligations denominated in those currencies. The appreciation of
    the dollar against the Mexican peso and the Korean won tended to
    reduce our equity in and net income from our international
    operations when translated back into dollars. In the case of the
    Japanese yen, the depreciation of the dollar in the second half
    of the year had the effect of increasing our losses on embedded
    derivatives associated with certain variable annuities when
    translated into dollars. We use derivatives to manage our
    exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. See
       Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Results of Operations   Year Ended December 31,
    2008 compared with the Year Ended December 31,
    2007   The Company   Revenues and
    Expenses   Net Investment Gains and Losses  and
       Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    International. 

Impact on Net Investment Gains (Losses).   We
    recognized substantial gains on freestanding derivatives that we
    entered into to hedge our exposures to interest rate risk,
    foreign currency exchange rate risk and equity price risk. These
    derivative gains outweighed the losses on embedded derivatives
    related to guaranteed minimum benefits on variable annuities
    (which would have been larger if not offset by adjustments due
    to the widening of our own credit spread as described below) and
    losses on fixed maturity and equity securities (which were
    primarily driven by impairments on holdings of financial
    institutions) and resulted in significant net investment gains
    for the year. See    Management s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Results of Operations   Year
    Ended December 31, 2008 compared with the Year Ended
    December 31, 2007   The Company  
    Revenues and Expenses   Net Investment Gains and
    Losses. 

Impact of Credit Spread Widening and Fair Value
    Accounting.   The widening of our own credit spread
    in the third and fourth quarters had a beneficial effect on our
    results, particularly in our Individual and International
    segments, by dampening the impact of declines in equity market
    prices on the valuation of our embedded derivatives associated
    with guarantees on variable annuities. The substantial decreases
    in equity prices during the year increased the liability for
    guaranteed minimum benefits on variable annuities, which is
    reflected as a loss on embedded derivatives in net investment
    gains and losses. Because we carry that liability at fair value
    under SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements,
     ( SFAS 157 ), which we adopted effective
    January 1, 2008, we take our own credit spread into account
    in determining the fair value. The widening of our own credit
    spread during 2008 substantially reduced the amount of the loss
    on embedded derivatives. A narrowing of our own credit spread in
    the future could result in net investment losses as the
    derivative gain is reduced. See
       Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Results of Operations   Year Ended December 31,

5

Table of Contents   

2008 compared with the Year Ended December 31,
    2007   The Company   Revenues and
    Expenses   Net Investment Gains and Losses. 

Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plan Obligation
    Impacts.   The dramatic deterioration in the credit
    and equity markets produced significant declines in the market
    value of the assets supporting our pension and postretirement
    benefit plan obligations, resulting in changes in the funded
    status of such plans which will affect our results of operations
    in 2009. See    Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefit
    Plans. 

Goodwill Impacts.   In addition to our annual
    goodwill impairment tests performed during the third quarter of
    2008 based upon data as of June 30, 2008, we performed an
    interim goodwill impairment test as of December 31, 2008,
    in light of current economic conditions, the sustained low level
    of equity markets, declining market capitalizations in the
    insurance industry and lower operating earnings projections,
    particularly for the Individual segment. Based upon the tests
    performed, management concluded no impairment of goodwill had
    occurred for any of the Company s reporting units at
    December 31, 2008. See    Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Goodwill. 

Impact on Net Investment Income.   Investment
    yields declined in many asset classes, principally other limited
    partnerships (including hedge funds), real estate joint
    ventures, cash and short-term investments, and mortgage loans,
    causing net investment income to decrease from 2007 levels. Our
    results on securities lending were higher than in the prior
    year. See    Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Results of Operations   Year
    Ended December 31, 2008 compared with the Year Ended
    December 31, 2007   The Company  
    Revenues and Expenses   Net Investment Income. 

Business Fundamentals and Other
    Events.   Although financial market factors had the
    largest impact on our performance in 2008, some factors not
    related to financial market developments also affected our
    results. Top-line growth was strong, with particularly large
    increases in premiums, fees and other revenues in our
    Institutional segment and our International segment. Net
    interest margins decreased in our Individual segment and in the
    retirement   savings business in our Institutional
    segment but increased in the group life business of
    Institutional. Less favorable underwriting results than in 2007
    affected our Institutional and Individual segments, while the
    Auto   Home segment was impacted by increased
    catastrophe losses compared to 2007. The effects of pension
    reform in Argentina in 2007 and the nationalization of the
    Argentine pension business in 2008 affected our International
    results. In Corporate   Other, results were affected
    by increases in revenues and expenses resulting from the growth
    of MetLife Bank, National Association ( MetLife Bank 
    or  MetLife Bank, N.A. ) and increased expenses
    associated with implementation of an enterprise-wide cost
    reduction and revenue enhancement initiative, higher corporate
    support expenses and increased interest expense. During 2008, we
    also completed the split-off of our majority ownership stake in
    Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated. See
       Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Results of Operations   Year Ended December 31,
    2008 compared with the Year Ended December 31,
    2007   The Company. 

Securities Lending Program.   As institutional
    investors sought greater liquidity during the third and fourth
    quarter of 2008 in response to the turbulent credit markets and
    financial institution crisis, we systematically reduced the size
    of our securities lending program in-line with demand. The drop
    in the securities lending volume was more than offset, however,
    by an increase in the rates charged for securities lending
    transactions. See    Management s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources. 

Liquidity Position.   We purposefully enhanced
    own liquidity position in the second half of the year by holding
    historically high levels of cash, cash equivalents and
    short-term investments, which further pressured net investment
    income with the substantial decline in short-term interest rates
    over the year. To manage liquidity across our businesses we
    utilized intersegment transfers of assets rather than selling
    assets into the marketplace and we have participated, to a
    limited extent, in certain of the government programs. We are
    managing our increased levels of liquidity and their impact on
    the matching of our assets and liabilities through our well
    established asset/liability management processes. For a
    comprehensive description of the impact of 2008 events on our
    liquidity see    Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Liquidity and Capital
    Resources   Extraordinary Market Conditions. 

6

Table of Contents   

Capital Transactions.   In the midst of these
    extraordinary market conditions, we were able to raise capital
    through offerings of common stock and senior debt. In October
    2008, we issued 86,250,000 shares of common stock at a
    price of $26.50 per share for gross proceeds of
    $2.3 billion in order to strengthen our capital position
    and increase our cushion against potential realized and
    unrealized losses. In August 2008 and February 2009, we
    successfully remarketed a total of $2,070 million of
    ten-year senior debt, with coupon rates of 6.817% for notes
    maturing in August 2018 and 7.717% for notes maturing in
    February 2019. The proceeds of both remarketings were used to
    satisfy holders  obligations to purchase common stock of
    the Company under the stock purchase contracts forming part of
    our common equity units issued in 2005. See
       Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Liquidity and Capital Resources. 

Ratings.   Rating agencies continue to monitor
    insurance companies, including ours, as described in
       Company Ratings. 

Continuing
    Effects of Market and Economic Conditions on Our
    Business   

During 2009, management expects that the United States and
    international economies will continue to feel the impact of the
    extraordinary economic and financial market movements and events
    of 2008, with a continuation of financial market volatility, as
    the effects of recession on our business become more pronounced.
    More specifically, management anticipates the following impacts
    on MetLife s businesses in 2009:

a modest increase (on a constant exchange rate basis) in
    premiums, fees and other revenues in 2009, with mixed results
    across MetLife s segments, including (i) lower fee
    income from separate accounts businesses, including variable
    annuity and life products in the Individual segment; (ii) a
    possible decline in payroll-linked revenue from the
    Institutional segment s group insurance customers;
    (iii) a reduction in the demand for certain retirement and
    savings products from the International and Institutional
    segments; and (iv) as a result of the impact of the
    recession on the housing market and the auto industry, a
    decrease in premiums from the Auto and Home segment;

continued downward pressure on net income across the enterprise,
    specifically net investment income, resulting from lower returns
    from other limited partnerships, real estate joint ventures and
    securities lending and ongoing uncertainty over the direction of
    interest rates, together with difficulty predicting the impact
    of the financial markets on net investment gains (losses) and
    unrealized investment gains (losses), as well as the effects of
    MetLife s own credit, as it varies greatly and the exposure
    is not hedged;

the potential need to establish additional insurance-related
    liabilities, both those associated with guarantees (which are
    offset to some extent through hedging) and those not; and

the possible increase in certain expenses, including those
    associated with (i) the Company s Operational
    Excellence initiative; (ii) impairments to goodwill,
    specifically in the Individual segment; (iii) the
    Company s pension-related expense and (iv) DAC
    amortization.

In response to the challenges presented by the unusual economic
    environment, management continues to focus on disciplined
    underwriting, pricing and hedging strategies, as well as focused
    expense management.

The ongoing financial turbulence and the governmental responses
    have affected the competitive environment and may lead to
    consolidation within the life insurance industry as well as
    further consolidation in the broader financial services
    industry. The precise impacts of such events on our business are
    difficult to predict.

A more detailed discussion of management s view of the
    outlook for 2009 for each of the Company s operating
    segments and for Corporate   Other appears in
       Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Results of Operations   Outlook. 

Institutional  

Our Institutional segment offers a broad range of group
    insurance and retirement   savings products and
    services to corporations and other institutions and their
    respective employees. We have built a leading position in the
    U.S. group insurance market through long-standing
    relationships with many of the largest corporate employers in
    the United States.

7

Table of Contents   

Group insurance products and services include group life
    insurance, non-medical health insurance products and related
    administrative services, as well as other benefits and services,
    such as employer-sponsored auto and homeowners insurance
    provided through the Auto   Home segment and prepaid
    legal services plans. Non-medical health insurance is comprised
    of products such as accidental death and dismemberment
    ( AD D ), long-term care ( LTC ),
    short- and long-term disability, individual disability income,
    dental insurance, and prepaid legal services. We offer group
    insurance products as employer-paid benefits or as voluntary
    benefits where all or a portion of the premiums are paid by the
    employee. Revenues applicable to these group insurance products
    and services were $16 billion and $14 billion, in 2008
    and 2007, respectively, representing 31% and 30% of our total
    revenues in 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Our retirement   savings products and services include
    an array of annuity and investment products, including,
    guaranteed interest products and other stable value products,
    accumulation and income annuities, and separate account
    contracts for the investment management of defined benefit and
    defined contribution plan assets. Revenues applicable to our
    retirement   savings products were $8 billion in
    both 2008 and 2007 representing 16% and 17% of our total
    revenues in 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Marketing
    and Distribution   

Our Institutional segment markets our products and services
    through sales forces, comprised of MetLife employees, for both
    our group insurance and retirement   savings lines.

We distribute our group insurance products and services through
    a sales force that is segmented by the size of the target
    customer. Marketing representatives sell either directly to
    Corporate   Other institutional customers or through
    an intermediary, such as a broker or consultant. Voluntary
    products are sold through the same sales channels, as well as by
    specialists for these products. Employers have been emphasizing
    such voluntary products and, as a result, we have increased our
    focus on communicating and marketing to such employees in order
    to further foster sales of those products. As of
    December 31, 2008, the group insurance sales channels had
    357 marketing representatives, which represented a decrease of
    10% from 398 marketing representatives as of the end of the
    prior year.

Our retirement   savings organization markets
    retirement, savings, investment and payout annuity products and
    services to sponsors and advisors of benefit plans of all sizes.
    These products and services are offered to private and public
    pension plans, collective bargaining units, nonprofit
    organizations, recipients of structured settlements and the
    current and retired members of these and other institutions.

We distribute retirement   savings products and
    services through dedicated sales teams and relationship managers
    located in 9 offices around the country. In addition, the
    retirement   savings organization works with the
    distribution channels in the Individual segment and in the group
    insurance area to better reach and service customers, brokers,
    consultants and other intermediaries.

We have entered into several joint ventures and other
    arrangements with third parties to expand the marketing and
    distribution opportunities of institutional products and
    services. We also seek to sell our institutional products and
    services through sponsoring organizations and affinity groups.
    For example, we are the provider of LTC products for the
    National Long-Term Care Coalition, a group of some of the
    nation s largest employers. In addition, the Company,
    together with John Hancock Financial Services, Inc., a
    wholly-owned subsidiary of Manulife Financial Corporation, is a
    provider for the Federal Long-Term Care Insurance program. The
    program, available to most federal employees and their families,
    is the largest employer-sponsored LTC insurance program in the
    country based on the number of enrollees. In addition, we also
    provide life and dental coverage to federal employees.

Group
    Insurance Products and Services   

Our group insurance products and services include:

Group Life.   Group life insurance products and
    services include group term life (both employer-paid basic life
    and employee-paid supplemental life), group universal life,
    group variable universal life, dependent life and survivor
    income benefits. These products and services are offered as
    standard products or may be

8

Table of Contents   

tailored to meet specific customer needs. This category also
    includes specialized life insurance products designed
    specifically to provide solutions for non-qualified benefit and
    retiree benefit funding purposes.

Non-Medical Health.   Non-medical health
    insurance consists of short- and long-term disability,
    individual disability income, critical illness, LTC, dental and
    AD D coverages. As a result of an acquisition in 2008, we
    now offer a dental managed care product in select markets. We
    also sell administrative services-only arrangements to some
    employers.

Other Products and Services.   Other products
    and services include employer-sponsored auto and homeowners
    insurance provided through the Auto   Home segment and
    prepaid legal plans.

Retirement  
    Savings Products and Services   

Our retirement   savings products and services include:

Guaranteed Interest and Stable Value
    Products.   We offer guaranteed interest contracts
    ( GICs ), including separate account GICs, funding
    agreements and similar products.

Accumulation and Income Annuities.   We also
    sell fixed and variable annuity products, generally in
    connection with the termination of pension plans, both
    domestically and in the United Kingdom, or the funding of
    structured settlements. Annuity products include single premium
    buyouts, terminal funding contracts and structured settlement
    annuities.

Other Retirement   Savings Products and
    Services.   Other retirement   savings
    products and services include separate account contracts for the
    investment management of defined benefit and defined
    contribution plan assets on behalf of corporations and other
    institutions.

Individual  

Our Individual segment offers a wide variety of protection and
    asset accumulation products aimed at serving the financial needs
    of our customers throughout their entire life cycle. Products
    offered by Individual include insurance products, such as
    traditional, variable and universal life insurance, and variable
    and fixed annuities. In addition, Individual sales
    representatives distribute disability insurance and long-term
    care (LTC) insurance products offered by our Institutional
    segment, investment products such as mutual funds and wealth
    advisory services, as well as other products offered by our
    other businesses.

Our broadly recognized brand names and strong distribution
    channels have allowed us to become the second largest provider
    of individual life insurance and annuities in the United States,
    with $17 billion of total statutory individual life and
    annuity premiums and deposits through September 30, 2008,
    the latest period for which OneSource, a database that
    aggregates United States insurance company statutory financial
    statements, is available. According to research performed by the
    Life Insurance Marketing and Research Association
    ( LIMRA ), based on sales through September 30,
    2008, we are the sixth largest issuer of individual variable
    life insurance in the United States and the fifth largest issuer
    of all individual life insurance products in the United States.
    In addition, according to research done by LIMRA and based on
    new annuity deposits through September 30, 2008, we are the
    third largest annuity writer in the United States.

During the period from 2004 to 2008, our first year statutory
    deposits for life products increased at a compound annual growth
    rate of approximately 1%. Life deposits represented
    approximately 28% and 32% of total statutory premiums and
    deposits for Individual in 2008 and 2007, respectively. During
    the period from 2004 to 2008, the statutory deposits for annuity
    products increased at a compound annual growth rate of
    approximately 14%. Annuity deposits represented approximately
    72% and 68% of total statutory premiums and deposits for
    Individual in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Individual had
    $15.6 billion and $15.4 billion of total revenues, or
    31% and 33% of our total revenues, in 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. These premiums, deposits and revenues can and will
    fluctuate with market volatility as noted and discussed in the
    Risk Factors section of this document.

In 2008 we realigned resources, which did not change our product
    reporting groups, into the  Life and Protection Solutions
    Group,  the  Retirement and Wealth Strategies
    Group,  the  Individual Distribution  group, and
    the  Strategic Architecture   Business
    Performance  group. In this new organizational structure,
    we will focus

9

Table of Contents   

even more on the key factors that will ensure continued
    success   growing markets, profitable products,
    diverse distribution and efficient management of our resources.

Marketing
    and Distribution   

Our Individual segment targets the large middle-income market,
    as well as affluent individuals, owners of small businesses and
    executives of small- to medium-sized companies. We have also
    been successful in selling our products in various
    multi-cultural markets.

Life and Protection Solutions products are sold through
    MetLife s Individual Distribution organization and also
    through various third party organizations utilizing two models.
    In the coverage model, wholesalers sell to high net worth
    individuals and small- to medium-sized businesses through
    independent general agencies, financial advisors, consultants,
    brokerage general agencies and other independent marketing
    organizations under contractual arrangements. In the point of
    sale model, wholesalers sell through financial intermediaries,
    including regional broker dealers, brokerage firms, financial
    planners and banks.

Retirement and Wealth Strategies products are sold through
    MetLife s Individual Distribution organization and also
    through various third party organizations such as regional
    broker dealers, New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE )
    brokerage firms, financial planners and banks.

Individual Distribution.   The Individual
    Distribution organization is comprised of three channels: the
    MetLife Distribution Channel, a career agency system, the New
    England Financial Distribution Channel, a general agency system,
    and MetLife Resources, a career agency system.

MetLife Distribution Channel.   The MetLife
    Distribution Channel had 6,362 MetLife agents under contract in
    98 agencies at December 31, 2008 as compared to 6,243
    agents under contract in 98 agencies at December 31, 2007.
    The career agency sales force focuses on the large middle-income
    and affluent markets, including multi-cultural markets. We
    support our efforts in multi-cultural markets through targeted
    advertising, specially trained agents and sales literature
    written in various languages.

New England Financial Distribution Channel.   At
    December 31, 2008, the New England Financial Distribution
    Channel included 43 general agencies providing support to 2,278
    general agents and a network of independent brokers throughout
    the United States. The New England Financial Distribution
    Channel targets high net worth individuals, owners of small
    businesses and executives of small- to medium-sized companies.

MetLife Resources.   MetLife Resources, a
    focused distribution channel of MetLife, markets retirement,
    annuity and other financial products on a national basis through
    660 MetLife agents and independent brokers at December 31,
    2008. MetLife Resources targets the nonprofit, educational and
    healthcare markets.

Discontinued Distribution Channel.   MetLife,
    Inc. has entered into an agreement to sell Texas Life Insurance
    Company ( Texas Life  in early 2009. At
    December 31, 2008, the results of Texas Life are reported
    as discontinued operations. Texas Life s premiums and
    deposits were less than 2% of total premiums and deposits for
    2008 and 2007.

Products   

We offer a wide variety of individual insurance, as well as
    annuities and investment-type products, aimed at serving our
    customers  financial needs throughout their entire life
    cycle.

Life and
    Protection Solution Products  

Our individual insurance products include variable life
    products, universal life products, traditional life products,
    including whole life and term life, and other individual
    products, including individual disability and LTC insurance.

We continually review and update our products. We have
    introduced new products and features designed to increase the
    competitiveness of our portfolio and the flexibility of our
    products to meet the broad range of asset accumulation,
    life-cycle protection and distribution needs of our customers.

10

Table of Contents   

Variable Life.   Variable life products provide
    insurance coverage through a contract that gives the
    policyholder flexibility in investment choices and, depending on
    the product, in premium payments and coverage amounts, with
    certain guarantees. Most importantly, with variable life
    products, premiums and account balances can be directed by the
    policyholder into a variety of separate accounts or directed to
    the Company s general account. In the separate accounts,
    the policyholder bears the entire risk of the investment
    results. We collect specified fees for the management of these
    various investment accounts and any net return is credited
    directly to the policyholder s account. In some instances,
    third-party money management firms manage investment accounts
    that support variable insurance products. With some products, by
    maintaining a certain premium level, policyholders may have the
    advantage of various guarantees that may protect the death
    benefit from adverse investment experience.

Universal Life.   Universal life products
    provide insurance coverage on the same basis as variable life,
    except that premiums, and the resulting accumulated balances,
    are allocated only to the Company s general account.
    Universal life products may allow the insured to increase or
    decrease the amount of death benefit coverage over the term of
    the contract and the owner to adjust the frequency and amount of
    premium payments. We credit premiums to an account maintained
    for the policyholder. Premiums are credited net of specified
    expenses and interest, at interest rates we determine, subject
    to specified minimums. Specific charges are made against the
    policyholder s account for the cost of insurance protection
    and for expenses. With some products, by maintaining a certain
    premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various
    guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse
    investment experience.

Whole Life.   Whole life products provide a
    guaranteed benefit upon the death of the insured in return for
    the periodic payment of a fixed premium over a predetermined
    period. Premium payments may be required for the entire life of
    the contract period, to a specified age or period, and may be
    level or change in accordance with a predetermined schedule.
    Whole life insurance includes policies that provide a
    participation feature in the form of dividends. Policyholders
    may receive dividends in cash or apply them to increase death
    benefits, increase cash values available upon surrender or
    reduce the premiums required to maintain the contract in-force.
    Because the use of dividends is specified by the policyholder,
    this group of products provides significant flexibility to
    individuals to tailor the product to suit their specific needs
    and circumstances, while at the same time providing guaranteed
    benefits.

Term Life.   Term life provides a guaranteed
    benefit upon the death of the insured for a specified time
    period in return for the periodic payment of premiums. Specified
    coverage periods range from one year to 30 years, but in no
    event are they longer than the period over which premiums are
    paid. Death benefits may be level over the period or decreasing.
    Decreasing coverage is used principally to provide for loan
    repayment in the event of death. Premiums may be guaranteed at a
    level amount for the coverage period or may be non-level and
    non-guaranteed. Term insurance products are sometimes referred
    to as pure protection products, in that there are typically no
    savings or investment elements. Term contracts expire without
    value at the end of the coverage period when the insured party
    is still living.

Other Individual Products.   Individual
    disability products provide a benefit in the event of the
    disability of the insured. In most instances, this benefit is in
    the form of monthly income paid until the insured reaches
    age 65. In addition to income replacement, the product may
    be used to provide for the payment of business overhead expenses
    for disabled business owners or mortgage payment protection.

Our LTC insurance provides a fixed benefit for certain costs
    associated with nursing home care and other services that may be
    provided to individuals unable to perform certain activities of
    daily living.

In addition to these products, our Individual segment supports a
    group of low face amount life insurance policies, known as
    industrial policies that its agents sold until 1964.

Retirement
    and Wealth Strategies Products  

We offer a variety of individual annuities and investment
    products, including variable and fixed annuities, and mutual
    funds and securities.

11

Table of Contents   

Variable Annuities.   We offer variable
    annuities for both asset accumulation and asset distribution
    needs. Variable annuities allow the contractholder to make
    deposits into various investment accounts, as determined by the
    contractholder. The investment accounts are separate accounts
    and risks associated with such investments are borne entirely by
    the contractholder. In certain variable annuity products,
    contractholders may also choose to allocate all or a portion of
    their account to the Company s general account and are
    credited with interest at rates we determine, subject to certain
    minimums. In addition, contractholders may also elect certain
    minimum death benefit and minimum living benefit guarantees for
    which additional fees are charged.

Fixed Annuities.   Fixed annuities are used for
    both asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Fixed
    annuities do not allow the same investment flexibility provided
    by variable annuities, but provide guarantees related to the
    preservation of principal and interest credited. Deposits made
    into deferred annuity contracts are allocated to the
    Company s general account and are credited with interest at
    rates we determine, subject to certain minimums. Credited
    interest rates are guaranteed not to change for certain limited
    periods of time, ranging from one to ten years. Fixed income
    annuities provide a guaranteed monthly income for a specified
    period of years
     and/or  for
    the life of the annuitant.

Mutual Funds and Securities.   Through our
    broker-dealer affiliates, we offer a full range of mutual funds
    and other securities products.

International  

International provides life insurance, accident and health
    insurance, credit insurance, annuities, endowment and
    retirement   savings products to both individuals and
    groups. We focus on emerging markets primarily within the Latin
    America, Europe and Asia Pacific regions. We operate in
    international markets through subsidiaries and joint ventures.
    See  Risk Factors   Fluctuations in Foreign
    Currency Exchange Rates and Foreign Securities Markets Could
    Negatively Affect Our Profitability,  and  Risk
    Factors   Our International Operations Face Political,
    Legal, Operational and Other Risks that Could Negatively Affect
    Those Operations or Our Profitability,  and
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk. 

Latin
    America   

We operate in the Latin America region in the following
    countries: Mexico, Chile, Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay. The
    operations in Mexico and Chile represented 82% of the total
    premiums and fees in this region for the year ended
    December 31, 2008. The Mexican operation is the largest
    life insurance company in both the individual and group
    businesses in Mexico. The Chilean operation is the largest
    annuity company in Chile, based on market share. The Chilean
    operation also offers individual life insurance and group
    insurance products. In 2008, our Argentine pension business,
    which was the second largest in the market ceased to exist as a
    result of the nationalization of the private pension system by
    the Argentine government. We also actively market individual
    life insurance, group insurance products and credit life
    coverage in Argentina, but the nationalization of the pension
    system substantially reduces our presence in Argentina. The
    business environment in Argentina has been, and may continue to
    be, affected by governmental and legal actions which impact our
    results of operations.

Europe   

We operate in Europe in the following countries: the United
    Kingdom, Belgium, Poland and Ireland. The results of our
    operation in India are also included in this region. The
    operation in the United Kingdom represented 54% of the total
    premiums and fees in this region for the year ended
    December 31, 2008. The United Kingdom operation underwrites
    risk in its home market and fourteen other countries across
    Europe offering credit insurance coverage.

Asia
    Pacific   

We operate in the Asia Pacific region in the following
    countries: South Korea, Taiwan, Australia, Japan, Hong Kong and
    China. The activities in the region are primarily focused on
    individual business. The operations in South Korea and Taiwan
    represented 70% of the total premiums and fees in this region
    for the year ended December 31, 2008. The South Korean
    operation has significant sales of variable universal life and
    annuity products. The

12

Table of Contents   

Taiwanese operation has significant sales of annuity and
    endowment products. In 2007, we completed the sale of our
    Australia annuities and pension businesses to a third party. The
    Japanese joint venture operation offers fixed and guaranteed
    variable annuities and variable life products. We have a quota
    share reinsurance agreement with the joint venture in Japan,
    whereby we assume 100% of the living and death benefit guarantee
    riders associated with the variable annuity business written
    after April 2005 by the joint venture. The operating results of
    the joint venture operations in Japan and China are reflected in
    net investment income and are not consolidated in the financial
    results. Also, in 2007 we acquired the remaining 50% interest in
    a joint venture in Hong Kong resulting in the joint venture
    becoming a consolidated subsidiary.

Auto  
    Home  

Auto   Home, operating through Metropolitan Property
    and Casualty Insurance Company and its subsidiaries
    ( MPC ), offers personal lines property and casualty
    insurance directly to employees at their employer s
    worksite, as well as to individuals through a variety of retail
    distribution channels, including independent agents, property
    and casualty specialists, direct response marketing and the
    agency distribution group. Auto   Home primarily sells
    auto insurance, which represented 69% of Auto  
    Home s total net earned premiums in 2008, and homeowners
    and other insurance, which represented 31% of Auto  
    Home s total net earned premiums in 2008.

Products   

Auto   Home s insurance products include auto,
    homeowners, renters, condominium and dwelling, and other
    personal lines.

Auto Coverages.   Auto insurance policies
    include coverages for private passenger automobiles, utility
    automobiles and vans, motorcycles, motor homes, antique or
    classic automobiles and trailers. Auto   Home offers
    traditional coverages such as liability, uninsured motorist, no
    fault or personal injury protection and collision and
    comprehensive.

Homeowners and Other Coverages.   Homeowners
    insurance provides protection for homeowners, renters,
    condominium owners and residential landlords against losses
    arising out of damage to dwellings and contents from a wide
    variety of perils, as well as coverage for liability arising
    from ownership or occupancy. Other insurance includes personal
    excess liability (protection against losses in excess of amounts
    covered by other liability insurance policies), and coverages
    for recreational vehicles and boat owners.

Traditional insurance policies for dwellings represent the
    majority of Auto   Home s homeowners 
    policies providing protection for loss on a  replacement
    cost  basis. These policies provide additional coverage for
    reasonable, normal living expenses incurred by policyholders
    that have been displaced from their homes.

Marketing
    and Distribution   

Personal lines auto and homeowners insurance products are
    directly marketed to employees at their employer s
    worksite. Auto   Home products are also marketed and
    sold to individuals by independent agents, property and casualty
    specialists, through a direct response channel and through the
    agency distribution group. Current economic conditions have
    impacted the ability to sell new policies. Declines in a variety
    of economic factors, most notably falling new and existing home
    sales as well as declines in auto sales, have reduced the number
    of potential shopping points strongly associated with new policy
    sales. Sales to employees at their employer s worksite was
    the only distribution sector to record increased sales during
    2008 over those achieved in 2007.

Employer
    Worksite Programs   

Auto   Home is a leading provider of auto and
    homeowners products offered to employees at their
    employer s worksite. Net earned premiums increased by
    $27 million, or 2.6%, to $1.0 billion for the year
    ended December 31, 2008 as compared to the prior year. At
    December 31, 2008, 2,136 employers offered MetLife
    Auto   Home products to their employees.

Institutional marketing representatives market the
    Auto   Home program to employers through a variety of
    means, including broker referrals and cross-selling to MetLife
    group customers. Once permitted by the employer,

13

Table of Contents   

MetLife commences marketing efforts to employees. Employees who
    are interested in the auto and homeowners products can call a
    toll-free number to request a quote, to purchase coverage and to
    request payroll deduction over the telephone. Auto  
    Home has also developed proprietary software that permits an
    employee in most states to obtain a quote for auto insurance
    through Auto   Home s Internet website.

Retail
    Distribution Channels   

We market and sell Auto   Home products through
    independent agents, property and casualty specialists, a direct
    response channel and the agency distribution group. In recent
    years, we have increased the number of independent agents
    appointed to sell these products.

Agency Distribution Group Career Agency
    System.   The agency distribution group career
    agency system had 1,610 agents at December 31, 2008, that
    sold Auto   Home insurance products, representing a 6%
    decrease from 1,720 agents in the prior year.

Independent Agencies.   At December 31,
    2008, Auto   Home maintained contracts with more than
    4,580 agencies and brokers, representing a 2% increase of 80
    agencies.

Property and Casualty Specialists.   At
    December 31, 2008, Auto   Home had 500
    specialists located in 35 states as compared to 550
    specialists located in 37 states in the prior year.
    Auto   Home s strategy is to utilize property and
    casualty specialists, who are Auto   Home employees,
    in geographic markets that are underserved by MetLife career
    agents.

Other Distribution Channels.   Auto  
    Home also utilizes a direct response marketing channel which
    permits sales to be generated through sources such as target
    mailings, career agent referrals and the Internet.

In 2008, Auto   Home s business was concentrated
    in the following states, as measured by net earned premiums: New
    York $383 million, or 13%; Massachusetts $304 million,
    or 10%; Illinois $205 million, or 7%; Florida
    $188 million, or 6%; Connecticut $144 million, or 5%;
    and Texas $119 million, or 4%.

Claims   

At December 31, 2008, Auto   Home s claims
    department included 2,400 employees located in
    Auto   Home s Warwick, Rhode Island home office,
    nine field claim offices, five in-house counsel offices,
    drive-in inspection sites and other sites throughout the United
    States. These employees included claim adjusters, appraisers,
    attorneys, managers, medical specialists, investigators,
    customer service representatives, claim financial analysts and
    support staff. Claim adjusters, representing the majority of
    employees, investigate, evaluate and settle over 700,000 claims
    annually.

Corporate  
    Other  

Corporate   Other contains the excess capital not
    allocated to the business segments, which is invested to
    optimize investment spread and to fund company initiatives,
    various
     start-up 
    entities, MetLife Bank which includes the 2008 acquisitions of a
    residential mortgage originating and servicing business and a
    reverse mortgage company, and run-off entities.
    Corporate   Other also includes interest expense
    related to the majority of our outstanding debt and expenses
    associated with certain legal proceedings. The elimination of
    all intersegment transactions from activity between segments
    occurs within Corporate   Other. In addition,
    Corporate   Other contains the restructuring costs of
    Operational Excellence, a corporate initiative further described
    below.

Operational
    Excellence Initiative   

As a result of a strategic review which began in 2007, the
    Company has initiated an enterprise-wide cost reduction and
    revenue enhancement initiative referred to as  Operational
    Excellence.  This initiative is focused on reducing
    complexity, leveraging scale, increasing productivity, improving
    the effectiveness of the Company s operations as well as
    providing a foundation for future growth.

Restructuring costs for Operational Excellence will encompass
    costs related to workforce reductions, lease consolidation, and
    asset impairments. Operational Excellence restructuring costs
    will occur in phases. In 2008, the

14

Table of Contents   

restructuring charge, primarily related to severance costs
    associated with workforce reductions, was $101 million.
    Additional restructuring charges including costs associated with
    severance and lease and asset impairments are expected to be
    incurred in 2009 and 2010. However, the 2009 and 2010 plans are
    not sufficiently developed to enable the Company to make an
    estimate of such restructuring charges at December 31,
    2008. In addition to the restructuring costs, there have been
    and will continue to be external consulting costs incurred
    throughout the execution of the initiative. The consultants
    support our project teams in terms of strategic direction and
    implementation. Costs incurred in connection with Operational
    Excellence are reflected in Corporate   Other as it is
    an enterprise-wide corporate initiative.

The scope and timing of this enterprise-wide initiative could be
    impacted by continued adverse economic conditions, capital
    market volatility and changes in strategic priorities.

Policyholder
    Liabilities  

We establish, and carry as liabilities, actuarially determined
    amounts that are calculated to meet our policy obligations when
    a policy matures or is surrendered, an insured dies or becomes
    disabled or upon the occurrence of other covered events, or to
    provide for future annuity payments. We compute the amounts for
    actuarial liabilities reported in our consolidated financial
    statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
    accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ). For
    more details on Policyholder Liabilities see
       Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Critical Accounting Estimates   Liability for Future
    Policy Benefits  and Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Insurance Liabilities. 

Pursuant to state insurance laws, the Holding Company s
    insurance subsidiaries establish statutory reserves, reported as
    liabilities, to meet their obligations on their respective
    policies. These statutory reserves are established in amounts
    sufficient to meet policy and contract obligations, when taken
    together with expected future premiums and interest at assumed
    rates. Statutory reserves generally differ from actuarial
    liabilities for future policy benefits determined using GAAP.

The New York Insurance Law and regulations require certain
    MetLife entities to submit to the New York Superintendent of
    Insurance (the  Superintendent ) or other state
    insurance departments, with each annual report, an opinion and
    memorandum of a  qualified actuary  that the statutory
    reserves and related actuarial amounts recorded in support of
    specified policies and contracts, and the assets supporting such
    statutory reserves and related actuarial amounts, make adequate
    provision for their statutory liabilities with respect to these
    obligations. See    Regulation  
    Insurance Regulation   Policy and Contract Reserve
    Sufficiency Analysis. 

Underwriting
    and Pricing  

Institutional,
    Individual and International Insurance Products   

Our underwriting for the Institutional, Individual and
    International segments generally involves an evaluation of
    applications for life, non-medical health,
    retirement   savings, products and services by a
    professional staff of underwriters and actuaries, who determine
    the type and the amount of risk that we are willing to accept.
    In addition to the products described above, the International
    segment, also offers credit insurance and in a limited number of
    countries major medical products to both individual and
    institutional customers. We employ detailed underwriting
    policies, guidelines and procedures designed to assist the
    underwriter to properly assess and quantify risks before issuing
    policies to qualified applicants or groups.

Individual underwriting considers not only an applicant s
    medical history, but also other factors such as financial
    profile, foreign travel, vocations and alcohol, drug and tobacco
    use. Group underwriting generally evaluates the risk
    characteristics of each prospective insured group, although with
    certain voluntary products, employees may be underwritten on an
    individual basis. We generally perform our own underwriting;
    however, certain policies are reviewed by intermediaries under
    guidelines established by us. Generally, we are not obligated to
    accept any risk or group of risks from, or to issue a policy or
    group of policies to, any employer or intermediary. Requests for
    coverage are reviewed on their merits and generally a policy is
    not issued unless the particular risk or group has been examined
    and approved by our underwriters.

15

Table of Contents   

Our remote underwriting offices, intermediaries as well as our
    corporate underwriting office are periodically reviewed via
    continuous ongoing internal underwriting audits to maintain
    high-standards of underwriting and consistency across the
    company. Such offices are also subject to periodic external
    audits by reinsurers with whom we do business.

We have established senior level oversight of the underwriting
    process that facilitates quality sales and serves the needs of
    our customers, while supporting our financial strength and
    business objectives. Our goal is to achieve the underwriting,
    mortality and morbidity levels reflected in the assumptions in
    our product pricing. This is accomplished by determining and
    establishing underwriting policies, guidelines, philosophies and
    strategies that are competitive and suitable for the customer,
    the agent and us.

Individual,
    Institutional and International Pricing   

Pricing for the Institutional, Individual and International
    segments has traditionally reflected our corporate underwriting
    standards. Product pricing of insurance products is based on the
    expected payout of benefits calculated through the use of
    assumptions for mortality, morbidity, expenses, persistency and
    investment returns, as well as certain macroeconomic factors,
    such as inflation. Investment-oriented products are priced based
    on various factors, which may include investment return,
    expenses, persistency and optionality. For certain investment
    oriented products in the Institutional segment and for
    institutional business sold within the International segment,
    pricing may include prospective and retrospective experience
    rating features. Prospective experience rating involves the
    evaluation of past experience for the purpose of determining
    future premium rates and all prior year gains and losses are
    borne by the Company. Retrospective experience rating also
    involves the evaluation of past experience for the purpose of
    determining the actual cost of providing insurance for the
    customer, however, the contract includes certain features that
    allow the Company to recoup certain losses or distribute certain
    gains back to the policyholder based on actual prior years 
    experience.

We continually review our underwriting and pricing guidelines so
    that our policies remain competitive and supportive of our
    marketing strategies and profitability goals. The current
    economic environment, with its volatility and uncertainty in
    interest rates, equity markets, asset valuations and
    unemployment trends has impacted or will most likely impact the
    pricing of our products.

For the Institutional segment and for the institutional business
    sold within the International segment, rates for group life and
    group non-medical and health products are based on anticipated
    results for the book of business being underwritten. Renewals
    are generally re-evaluated annually or biannually and are
    re-priced to reflect actual experience on such products.
    Retirement   savings type products are priced
    frequently and are very responsive to bond yields, and such
    prices include additional margin in periods of market
    uncertainty. This business is predominantly illiquid, because
    policyholders have no contractual rights to cash values and no
    options to change the form of the product s benefits.

For the Individual segment and for individual business sold
    within the International segment, pricing of life insurance
    products is highly regulated and must be approved by the
    individual state regulators where the product is sold. Generally
    such products are renewed annually and may include pricing terms
    that are guaranteed for a certain period of time. Fixed and
    variable annuity products are also highly regulated and approved
    by the individual state regulators. Such products generally
    include penalties for early withdrawals and policyholder benefit
    elections to tailor the form of the product s benefits to
    the needs of the opting policyholder. The Company periodically
    reevaluates the costs associated with such options and will
    periodically adjust pricing levels on its guarantees. Further,
    the Company from time to time may also reevaluate the type and
    level of guarantee features currently being offered.

Auto  
    Home   

Auto   Home s underwriting function has six
    principal aspects:

evaluating potential worksite marketing employer accounts and
    independent agencies;

establishing guidelines for the binding of risks;

16

Table of Contents   

reviewing coverage bound by agents;

underwriting potential insureds, on a case by case basis,
    presented by agents outside the scope of their binding authority;

pursuing information necessary in certain cases to enable
    Auto   Home to issue a policy within our
    guidelines; and

ensuring that renewal policies continue to be written at rates
    commensurate with risk.

Subject to very few exceptions, agents in each of
    Auto   Home s distribution channels, as well as
    in our Institutional segment, have binding authority for risks
    which fall within Auto   Home s published
    underwriting guidelines. Risks falling outside the underwriting
    guidelines may be submitted for approval to the underwriting
    department; alternatively, agents in such a situation may call
    the underwriting department to obtain authorization to bind the
    risk themselves. In most states, Auto   Home generally
    has the right within a specified period (usually the first
    60 days) to cancel any policy.

Auto   Home establishes prices for its major lines of
    insurance based on its proprietary database, rather than relying
    on rating bureaus. Auto   Home determines prices in
    part from a number of variables specific to each risk. The
    pricing of personal lines insurance products takes into account,
    among other things, the expected frequency and severity of
    losses, the costs of providing coverage (including the costs of
    acquiring policyholders and administering policy benefits and
    other administrative and overhead costs), competitive factors
    and profit considerations.

The major pricing variables for personal lines insurance include
    characteristics of the insured property, such as age, make and
    model or construction type, as well as characteristics of the
    insureds, such as driving record and loss experience, and the
    insured s personal financial management. Auto  
    Home s ability to set and change rates is subject to
    regulatory oversight.

As a condition of our license to do business in each state,
    Auto   Home, like all other automobile insurers, is
    required to write or share the cost of private passenger
    automobile insurance for higher risk individuals who would
    otherwise be unable to obtain such insurance. This
     involuntary  market, also called the  shared
    market,  is governed by the applicable laws and regulations
    of each state, and policies written in this market are generally
    written at rates higher than standard rates.

We continually review our underwriting and pricing guidelines so
    that our policies remain competitive and supportive of our
    marketing strategies and profitability goals. The current
    economic environment, with its volatility and uncertainty is not
    expected to materially impact the pricing of our products.

Reinsurance
    Activity  

We cede premiums to reinsurers under various agreements that
    cover individual risks, group risks or defined blocks of
    business, primarily on a coinsurance, yearly renewable term,
    excess or catastrophe excess basis. These reinsurance agreements
    spread the risk and minimize the effect of losses. The amount of
    each risk retained by us depends on our evaluation of the
    specific risk, subject, in certain circumstances, to maximum
    limits based on the characteristics of coverages. We also cede
    first dollar mortality risk under certain contracts. We obtain
    reinsurance when capital requirements and the economic terms of
    the reinsurance make it appropriate to do so. We reinsure our
    business through a diversified group of reinsurers.

Under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, the reinsurer
    agrees to reimburse us for the ceded amount in the event the
    claim is paid. However, we remain liable to our policyholders
    with respect to ceded reinsurance should any reinsurer be unable
    to meet its obligations under these agreements. Since we bear
    the risk of nonpayment by one or more of our reinsurers, we
    primarily cede reinsurance to well-capitalized, highly rated
    reinsurers. We evaluate the financial strength of our reinsurers
    by monitoring their ratings and analyzing their financial
    statements. We also analyze recent trends in arbitration and
    litigation outcomes in disputes, if any, with our reinsurers.
    Recoverability of reinsurance recoverable balances are evaluated
    based on these analyses. We generally secure large reinsurance
    recoverable balances with various forms of collateral, including
    irrevocable letters of credit, secured trusts and funds withheld
    accounts.

17

Table of Contents   

Individual   

Our life insurance operations participate in reinsurance
    activities in order to limit losses, minimize exposure to large
    risks, and provide additional capacity for future growth. We
    have historically reinsured the mortality risk on new individual
    life insurance policies primarily on an excess of retention
    basis or a quota share basis. Until 2005, we reinsured up to 90%
    of the mortality risk for all new individual life insurance
    policies that we wrote through our various franchises. This
    practice was initiated by the different franchises for different
    products starting at various points in time between 1992 and
    2000. During 2005, we changed our retention practices for
    certain individual life insurance policies. Amounts reinsured in
    prior years remain reinsured under the original reinsurance;
    however, under the new retention guidelines, we reinsure up to
    90% of the mortality risk in excess of $1 million for most
    new individual life insurance policies that we write through our
    various franchises and for certain individual life policies the
    retention limits remained unchanged. On a case by case basis, we
    may retain up to $20 million per life and reinsure 100% of
    amounts in excess of our retention limits. We evaluate our
    reinsurance programs routinely and may increase or decrease our
    retention at any time. In addition, we reinsure a significant
    portion of the mortality risk on our individual universal life
    policies issued since 1983. Placement of reinsurance is done
    primarily on an automatic basis and also on a facultative basis
    for risks with specific characteristics.

We also reinsure a portion of the living and death benefit
    riders issued in connection with our variable annuities. Under
    these reinsurance agreements, we pay a reinsurance premium
    generally based on rider fees collected from policyholders and
    receive reimbursements for benefits paid or accrued in excess of
    account values, subject to certain limitations. We enter into
    similar agreements for new or in-force business depending on
    market conditions.

In addition to reinsuring mortality risk as described above, we
    reinsure other risks, as well as specific coverages. We
    routinely reinsure certain classes of risks in order to limit
    our exposure to particular travel, avocation and lifestyle
    hazards. We have exposure to catastrophes, which could
    contribute to significant fluctuations in our results of
    operations. We use excess of retention and quota share
    reinsurance arrangements to provide greater diversification of
    risk and minimize exposure to larger risks.

Institutional   

The Institutional segment generally retains most of its risks
    and does not significantly utilize reinsurance. We may, on
    certain client arrangements, cede particular risks to reinsurers.

Auto  
    Home   

Auto   Home purchases reinsurance to control our
    exposure to large losses (primarily catastrophe losses) and to
    protect statutory surplus. Auto   Home cedes to
    reinsurers a portion of losses and cedes premiums based upon the
    risk and exposure of the policies subject to reinsurance.

To control our exposure to large property and casualty losses,
    Auto   Home utilizes property catastrophe, casualty,
    and property per risk excess of loss agreements.

Corporate  
    Other   

We also reinsure through 100% quota-share reinsurance agreements
    certain long-term care and workers  compensation business
    written by MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut
    ( MICC ), a subsidiary of the Company, prior to our
    acquisition of MICC. These run-off businesses have been included
    within Corporate   Other since the acquisition of MICC.

18

Table of Contents   

Reinsurance
    Recoverables   

Information regarding ceded reinsurance recoverable balances,
    included in premiums and other receivables in the consolidated
    balance sheet is as follows:

Our five largest reinsurers account for $7,651 million, or
    69%, of our total reinsurance recoverable balances of
    $11,067 million at December 31, 2008. Of these
    reinsurance recoverable balances, $5,194 million were
    secured by funds held in trust as collateral and
    $209 million were secured through irrevocable letters of
    credit issued by various financial institutions. We evaluate the
    collectibility of reinsurance recoverable balances as described
    previously and at December 31, 2008 allowances for
    uncollectible balances were not material.

Regulation  

Insurance
    Regulation   

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company is licensed to transact
    insurance business in, and is subject to regulation and
    supervision by, all 50 states, the District of Columbia,
    Guam, Puerto Rico, Canada, the U.S. Virgin Islands and
    Northern Mariana Islands. Each of MetLife s insurance
    subsidiaries is licensed and regulated in each U.S. and
    international jurisdiction where they conduct insurance
    business. The extent of such regulation varies, but most
    jurisdictions have laws and regulations governing the financial
    aspects of insurers, including standards of solvency, statutory
    reserves, reinsurance and capital adequacy, and the business
    conduct of insurers. In addition, statutes and regulations
    usually require the licensing of insurers and their agents, the
    approval of policy forms and certain other related materials
    and, for certain lines of insurance, the approval of rates. Such
    statutes and regulations also prescribe the permitted types and
    concentration of investments. The New York Insurance Law limits
    both the amounts of agent compensation throughout the United
    States, as well as the sales commissions and certain other
    marketing expenses that may be incurred in connection with the
    sale of life insurance policies and annuity contracts.

Each insurance subsidiary is required to file reports, generally
    including detailed annual financial statements, with insurance
    regulatory authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which it
    does business, and its operations and accounts are subject to
    periodic examination by such authorities. These subsidiaries
    must also file, and in many jurisdictions and in some lines of
    insurance obtain regulatory approval for, rules, rates and forms
    relating to the insurance written in the jurisdictions in which
    they operate.

The National Association of Insurance Commissioners
    ( NAIC ) has established a program of accrediting
    state insurance departments. NAIC accreditation contemplates
    that accredited states will conduct periodic examinations of
    insurers domiciled in such states. NAIC-accredited states will
    not accept reports of examination of insurers from unaccredited
    states, except under limited circumstances. As a direct result,
    insurers domiciled in unaccredited states may be subject to
    financial examination by accredited states in which they are
    licensed, in addition to any examinations conducted by their
    domiciliary states. The New York State Department of Insurance
    (the  Department ), MLIC s principal insurance
    regulator, has not received accreditation. Historically, the
    lack of accreditation has resulted from the New York
    legislature s failure to adopt certain model NAIC laws,
    although legislation enacted by the New York legislature in
    2007 may have removed any statutory barriers to the
    Department pursuing accreditation. While the Department may seek
    to become accredited in the future, it is not certain whether
    other impediments to accreditation remain. We do not believe
    that the absence of this accreditation will have a significant
    impact upon our ability to conduct our insurance businesses.

19

Table of Contents   

State and federal insurance and securities regulatory
    authorities and other state law enforcement agencies and
    attorneys general from time to time make inquiries regarding
    compliance by the Holding Company and its insurance subsidiaries
    with insurance, securities and other laws and regulations
    regarding the conduct of our insurance and securities
    businesses. We cooperate with such inquiries and take corrective
    action when warranted. See  Legal Proceedings. 

Holding Company Regulation.   The Holding
    Company and its insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation
    under the insurance holding company laws of various
    jurisdictions. The insurance holding company laws and
    regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but
    generally require a controlled insurance company (insurers that
    are subsidiaries of insurance holding companies) to register
    with state regulatory authorities and to file with those
    authorities certain reports, including information concerning
    its capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain
    intercompany transactions and general business operations.

State insurance statutes also typically place restrictions and
    limitations on the amount of dividends or other distributions
    payable by insurance company subsidiaries to their parent
    companies, as well as on transactions between an insurer and its
    affiliates. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Holding
    Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources  
    Dividends.  The New York Insurance Law and the regulations
    thereunder also restrict the aggregate amount of investments
    MLIC may make in non-life insurance subsidiaries, and provide
    for detailed periodic reporting on subsidiaries.

Guaranty Associations and Similar
    Arrangements.   Most of the jurisdictions in which
    the Company s insurance subsidiaries are admitted to
    transact business require life and property and casualty
    insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate
    in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay certain
    contractual insurance benefits owed pursuant to insurance
    policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These
    associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all
    member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the
    proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers
    in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or
    failed insurer is engaged. Some states permit member insurers to
    recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax
    offsets.

In the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied against
    MetLife have not been material. We have established liabilities
    for guaranty fund assessments that we consider adequate for
    assessments with respect to insurers that are currently subject
    to insolvency proceedings. See  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Insolvency Assessments. 

Statutory Insurance Examination.   As part of
    their regulatory oversight process, state insurance departments
    conduct periodic detailed examinations of the books, records,
    accounts, and business practices of insurers domiciled in their
    states. State insurance departments also have the authority to
    conduct examinations of non-domiciliary insurers that are
    licensed in their states. During the three-year period ended
    December 31, 2008, MetLife has not received any material
    adverse findings resulting from state insurance department
    examinations of its insurance subsidiaries conducted during this
    three-year period.

Regulatory authorities in a small number of states have had
    investigations or inquiries relating to MLIC s, New England
    Life Insurance Company s ( NELICO ) or General
    American Life Insurance Company s ( GALIC ) sales
    of individual life insurance policies or annuities. Over the
    past several years, these and a number of investigations by
    other regulatory authorities were resolved for monetary payments
    and certain other relief. We may continue to resolve
    investigations in a similar manner.

Policy and Contract Reserve Sufficiency
    Analysis.   Annually, MetLife s
    U.S. insurance subsidiaries are required to conduct an
    analysis of the sufficiency of all statutory reserves. In each
    case, a qualified actuary must submit an opinion which states
    that the statutory reserves, when considered in light of the
    assets held with respect to such reserves, make good and
    sufficient provision for the associated contractual obligations
    and related expenses of the insurer. If such an opinion cannot
    be provided, the insurer must set up additional reserves by
    moving funds from surplus. Since inception of this requirement,
    the Company s insurance subsidiaries which are required by
    their states of domicile to provide these opinions have provided
    such opinions without qualifications.

20

Table of Contents   

Surplus and Capital.   The Company s
    U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to the supervision
    of the regulators in each jurisdiction in which they are
    licensed to transact business. Regulators have discretionary
    authority, in connection with the continued licensing of these
    insurance subsidiaries, to limit or prohibit sales to
    policyholders if, in their judgment, the regulators determine
    that such insurer has not maintained the minimum surplus or
    capital or that the further transaction of business will be
    hazardous to policyholders. See    Risk-Based
    Capital. 

Risk-Based Capital
    (  RBC  ).   Each of the
    Company s U.S. insurance subsidiaries is subject to
    certain RBC requirements and reports its RBC based on a formula
    calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium and
    statutory reserve items. The formula takes into account the risk
    characteristics of the insurer, including asset risk, insurance
    risk, interest rate risk and business risk. The formula is used
    as an early warning regulatory tool to identify possible
    inadequately capitalized insurers for purposes of initiating
    regulatory action, and not as a means to rank insurers
    generally. State insurance laws provide insurance regulators the
    authority to require various actions by, or take various actions
    against, insurers whose RBC ratio does not exceed certain RBC
    levels. As of the date of the most recent annual statutory
    financial statements filed with insurance regulators, the RBC of
    each of these subsidiaries was in excess of each of those RBC
    levels. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Liquidity and Capital Resources   The
    Company   Capital. 

The NAIC adopted the Codification of Statutory Accounting
    Principles ( Codification ) in 2001. Codification was
    intended to standardize regulatory accounting and reporting to
    state insurance departments. However, statutory accounting
    principles continue to be established by individual state laws
    and permitted practices. The Department has adopted Codification
    with certain modifications for the preparation of statutory
    financial statements of insurance companies domiciled in New
    York. Modifications by the various state insurance departments
    may impact the effect of Codification on the statutory capital
    and surplus of the Company s insurance subsidiaries.

Regulation of Investments.   Each of the
    Company s U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to
    state laws and regulations that require diversification of its
    investment portfolios and limit the amount of investments in
    certain asset categories, such as below investment grade fixed
    income securities, equity real estate, other equity investments,
    and derivatives. Failure to comply with these laws and
    regulations would cause investments exceeding regulatory
    limitations to be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of
    measuring surplus, and, in some instances, would require
    divestiture of such non-qualifying investments. We believe that
    the investments made by each of the Company s insurance
    subsidiaries complied, in all material respects, with such
    regulations at December 31, 2008.

Federal Initiatives.   Although the federal
    government generally does not directly regulate the insurance
    business, federal initiatives often have an impact on our
    business in a variety of ways. From time to time, federal
    measures are proposed which may significantly affect the
    insurance business; the potential for this resides primarily in
    the tax-writing committees. At the present time, we do not know
    of any federal legislative initiatives that, if enacted, would
    adversely impact our business, results of operations or
    financial condition. These federal measures may have an adverse
    impact on our business, results of operations or financial
    condition. See  Risk Factors   There Can be No
    Assurance that actions of the U.S. Government, Federal
    Reserve Bank of New York and Other Governmental and Regulatory
    Bodies for the Purpose of Stabilizing the Financial Markets Will
    Achieve the Intended Effect. 

Legislative Developments.   On August 17,
    2006, President Bush signed the Pension Protection Act of 2006
    ( PPA ) into law. This act is considered to be the
    most sweeping pension legislation since the adoption of the
    Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
    ( ERISA ) on September 2, 1974. The provisions of
    the PPA, some of which were effective immediately and some which
    become effective through 2012, may, over time, have a
    significant impact on demand for pension, retirement savings,
    and lifestyle protection products in both the institutional and
    retail markets. The impact of the legislation may have a
    positive effect on the life insurance and financial services
    industries in the future. In the short-term, regulations on a
    number of key provisions have either been issued in proposed or
    final form. The final default investment regulations were issued
    in October 2007. Final regulations were proposed on investment
    advice in October 2008 and final regulations on the selection of
    annuity providers for defined contribution plans were issued in
    October 2008, becoming effective in December 2008. As these
    regulations are likely to interact with one another as plan
    sponsors evaluate them, we cannot predict whether

21

Table of Contents   

these regulations will be adopted as proposed, or what impact,
    if any, such proposals may have on our business, results of
    operations or financial condition.

On December 23, 2008, President Bush signed into law the
    Worker, Retiree and Employer Recovery Act which, among other
    things, eases the transition to the new funding requirements
    contained in the PPA for defined benefit plans.

On February 8, 2006, President Bush signed into law the
    Deficit Reduction Act which, among other things, created the
    ability for states to implement an LTC partnership program.
    States are currently implementing the partnership program. While
    implementation has generated an increased level of awareness
    regarding the need to fund long-term care, it is still too early
    to quantify what effect, if any, this legislation will have on
    our LTC business.

We cannot predict what other proposals may be made, what
    legislation may be introduced or enacted or the impact of any
    such legislation on our business, results of operations and
    financial condition.

Governmental
    Responses to Extraordinary Market Conditions   

U.S. Federal Governmental
    Responses.   Throughout 2008 and continuing in
    2009, Congress, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the
    U.S. Treasury and other agencies of the Federal government
    took a number of increasingly aggressive actions (in addition to
    continuing a series of interest rate reductions that began in
    the second half of 2007) intended to provide liquidity to
    financial institutions and markets, to avert a loss of investor
    confidence in particular troubled institutions and to prevent or
    contain the spread of the financial crisis. These measures have
    included:

expanding the types of institutions that have access to the
    Federal Reserve Bank of New York s discount window;

providing asset guarantees and emergency loans to particular
    distressed companies;

a temporary ban on short selling of shares of certain financial
    institutions (including, for a period, MetLife);

programs intended to reduce the volume of mortgage foreclosures
    by modifying the terms of mortgage loans for distressed
    borrowers;

temporarily guaranteeing money market funds; and

programs to support the mortgage-backed securities market and
    mortgage lending.

In addition to these actions, pursuant to the Emergency Economic
    Stabilization Act of 2008 ( EESA ), enacted in October
    2008, the U.S. Treasury has been injecting capital into
    selected banking institutions and their holding companies. At
    December 31, 2008, $250 billion of the total
    $700 billion available under EESA had been dedicated to
    making such capital infusions. EESA also authorizes the
    U.S. Treasury to purchase up mortgage-backed and other
    securities from financial institutions as part of the overall
    $700 billion available for the purpose of stabilizing the
    financial markets, although at December 31, 2008, the
    U.S. Treasury had indicated a general intention not to
    acquire mortgage-backed and similar securities. The Federal
    government, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the Federal
    Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) and other
    governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering
    taking other actions to address the financial crisis. For
    example, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York has been making
    funds available to commercial and financial companies under a
    number of programs, including the Commercial Paper Funding
    Facility (the  CPFF ), and the FDIC has established
    the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (the  FDIC
    Program ), as discussed further below.

In February 2009, the Treasury Department outlined a financial
    stability plan with additional measures to provide capital
    relief to institutions holding troubled assets, including a
    capital assistance program for banks that have undergone a
     stress test  (the  Capital Assistance
    Program ) and a public-private investment fund to purchase
    troubled assets from financial institutions. The administration
    has also announced its Homeowner Affordability and Stability
    Plan, which includes a number of elements intended to reduce the
    number of mortgage foreclosures. Further details of this plan
    are expected to be announced in March. The U.S. government
    may also establish additional programs to improve liquidity in
    the financial markets, support asset prices and recapitalize the
    financial sector. There can be no assurance as to the form of
    any such additional programs or the impact that these additional

22

Table of Contents   

measures or any existing governmental programs will have on the
    financial markets, whether on the levels of volatility currently
    being experienced, the levels of lending by financial
    institutions, the prices buyers are willing to pay for financial
    assets or otherwise. The choices made by the U.S. Treasury
    in its distribution of amounts available under the EESA, the
    Capital Assistance Program and other programs could have the
    effect of supporting some aspects of the financial services
    industry more than others or providing advantages to some of our
    competitors. See  Risk Factors   Competitive
    Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and
    Profitability. 

In addition to the various measures to foster liquidity and
    recapitalize the banking sector, the Federal government also
    passed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act in February
    2009 that provides for nearly $790 billion in additional
    federal spending, tax cuts and federal aid intended to spur
    economic activity.

MetLife, Inc. and some or all of its affiliates may be eligible
    to sell assets to the U.S. Treasury under one or more of
    the programs established under EESA, and some of their assets
    may be among those the U.S. Treasury or the public-private
    investment partnership proposed by the U.S. Treasury offers
    to purchase, either directly or through auction. Furthermore, as
    a bank holding company, MetLife, Inc. was eligible to apply for
    and could be selected to participate in the capital infusion
    program established under EESA, pursuant to which the
    U.S. Treasury purchases preferred shares of banking
    institutions or their holding companies and acquires warrants
    for their common shares. If we choose to participate in this
    capital infusion program, we will become subject to requirements
    and restrictions on our business. Issuing preferred shares and
    warrants could dilute the ownership interests of stockholders or
    affect our ability to raise capital in other transactions. We
    could also become subject to restrictions on the compensation
    that we can offer or pay to certain executive employees,
    including incentives or performance-based compensation. These
    restrictions could hinder or prevent us from attracting and
    retaining management with the talent and experience to manage
    our business effectively. Limits on our ability to deduct
    certain compensation paid to executive employees will also be
    imposed. The U.S. Treasury may also impose additional
    restrictions in the future, and such restrictions may apply to
    institutions receiving government assistance or financial
    institutions generally. In January 2009, Congress released the
    remaining $350 billion (of the $700 billion)
    authorized by the EESA. The stimulus legislation enacted in
    February 2009 contains additional restrictions on executive
    compensation for companies that have received or will receive
    Federal financial assistance under EESA, and Congress could
    impose additional requirements and conditions could be imposed
    on firms receiving Federal assistance.

Two of our commercial paper programs have been accepted for the
    CPFF. The CPFF is intended to improve liquidity in short-term
    funding markets by increasing the availability of term
    commercial paper funding to issuers and by providing greater
    assurance to both issuers and investors that firms will be able
    to rollover their maturing commercial paper. MetLife Short Term
    Funding LLC, an issuer of commercial paper under a program
    supported by funding agreements issued by Metropolitan Life
    Insurance Company and MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut,
    was accepted in October 2008 for the CPFF and may issue a
    maximum amount of $3.8 billion under the CPFF. At
    December 31, 2008, MetLife Short Term Funding LLC had used
    $1,650 million of its available capacity under the CPFF,
    and such amount was deposited under the related funding
    agreements. MetLife Funding, Inc. was accepted in November 2008
    for the CPFF and may issue a maximum amount of $1 billion
    under the CPFF. No drawdown by MetLife Funding, Inc. has taken
    place under this facility as of the date hereof.

MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Bank may issue debt guaranteed by the
    FDIC under the FDIC Program. Under the terms of the FDIC
    Program, the FDIC will guarantee through June 2012 (or maturity,
    if earlier) the payment of certain newly-issued senior unsecured
    debt of MetLife, Inc. or MetLife Bank (or any other eligible
    affiliate approved to participate by the FDIC) issued prior to
    October 31, 2009. We have elected the option of excluding
    specified senior unsecured debt maturing after June 30,
    2012, from the guarantee before reaching the limits on the
    amount of guaranteed debt under the FDIC Program
    ($398 million for MetLife, Inc. and $178 million for
    MetLife Bank, which may issue debt under its limit, as well as
    any unused amounts under MetLife, Inc. s limit). In
    addition, MetLife Bank has opted out of the component of the
    FDIC Program that guarantees non-interest bearing deposit
    transaction accounts. As of the date hereof, neither MetLife,
    Inc. nor MetLife Bank has issued debt guaranteed under the FDIC
    Program. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Liquidity and Capital Resources   Extraordinary Market
    Conditions. 

23

Table of Contents   

MetLife Bank has the capacity to borrow from the Federal Reserve
    Bank of New York s Discount Window and from the Federal
    Reserve Bank of New York under the Term Auction Facility. As of
    December 31, 2008, MetLife Bank had borrowed
    $950 million under the Term Auction Facility.

State Insurance Regulatory Responses.   In
    January 2009, the NAIC considered, but declined, a number of
    reserve and capital relief requests made by the American Council
    of Life Insurers, acting on behalf of its member companies.
    These requests, if adopted, would have generally resulted in
    lower statutory reserve and capital requirements, effective
    December 31, 2008, for life insurance companies. However,
    notwithstanding the NAIC s action on these requests,
    insurance companies have the right to approach the insurance
    regulator in their respective state of domicile and request
    relief. Several MetLife insurance entities requested and were
    granted relief, with a beneficial impact on capital as of
    December 31, 2008. We understand that various competitors
    have also requested and were sometimes granted relief, but we
    cannot quantify or project the impact on the competitive
    landscape of such relief or any subsequent regulatory relief
    that may be granted.

Foreign Governmental Responses.   In an effort
    to strengthen the financial condition of key financial
    institutions or avert their collapse, and to forestall or reduce
    the effects of reduced lending activity, a number of foreign
    governments have also taken actions similar to some of those
    taken by the U.S. Federal government, including injecting
    capital into domestic financial institutions in exchange for
    ownership stakes. We cannot predict whether these actions will
    achieve their intended purpose or how they will impact
    competition in the financial services industry.

Broker-Dealer
    and Securities Regulation   

Some of the Company s subsidiaries and their activities in
    offering and selling variable insurance products are subject to
    extensive regulation under the federal securities laws
    administered by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
    ( SEC ). These subsidiaries issue variable annuity
    contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate
    accounts that are registered with the SEC as investment
    companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended
    (the  Investment Company Act ). Each registered
    separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of
    which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is itself a
    registered investment company under the Investment Company Act.
    In addition, the variable annuity contracts and variable life
    insurance policies issued by the separate accounts are
    registered with the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933, as
    amended (the  Securities Act ). Other subsidiaries are
    registered with the SEC as broker-dealers under the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ),
    and are members of, and subject to, regulation by the Financial
    Industry Regulatory Authority ( FINRA ). Further, some
    of the Company s subsidiaries are registered as investment
    advisers with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940,
    as amended (the  Investment Advisers Act ), and are
    also registered as investment advisers in various states, as
    applicable. Certain variable contract separate accounts
    sponsored by the Company s subsidiaries are exempt from
    registration, but may be subject to other provisions of the
    federal securities laws.

Federal and state securities regulatory authorities and FINRA
    from time to time make inquiries and conduct examinations
    regarding compliance by the Holding Company and its subsidiaries
    with securities and other laws and regulations. We cooperate
    with such inquiries and examinations and take corrective action
    when warranted.

Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily
    intended to protect investors in the securities markets and
    generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and
    enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict the
    conduct of business for failure to comply with such laws and
    regulations. We may also be subject to similar laws and
    regulations in the foreign countries in which we provide
    investment advisory services, offer products similar to those
    described above, or conduct other activities.

Environmental
    Considerations   

As an owner and operator of real property, we are subject to
    extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and
    regulations. Inherent in such ownership and operation is also
    the risk that there may be potential environmental liabilities
    and costs in connection with any required remediation of such
    properties. In addition, we hold equity interests in companies
    that could potentially be subject to environmental liabilities.
    We routinely have environmental assessments performed with
    respect to real estate being acquired for investment and real
    property to

24

Table of Contents   

be acquired through foreclosure. We cannot provide assurance
    that unexpected environmental liabilities will not arise.
    However, based on information currently available to management,
    management believes that any costs associated with compliance
    with environmental laws and regulations or any remediation of
    such properties will not have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations or financial condition.

ERISA
    Considerations   

We provide products and services to certain employee benefit
    plans that are subject to ERISA, or the Internal Revenue Code of
    1986, as amended (the  Code ). As such, our activities
    are subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Code,
    including the requirement under ERISA that fiduciaries must
    perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan
    participants and beneficiaries and the requirement under ERISA
    and the Code that fiduciaries may not cause a covered plan to
    engage in prohibited transactions with persons who have certain
    relationships with respect to such plans. The applicable
    provisions of ERISA and the Code are subject to enforcement by
    the Department of Labor, the Internal Revenue Service and the
    Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ( PBGC ).

In  John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company v. Harris
    Trust and Savings Bank (1993) , the U.S. Supreme Court
    held that certain assets in excess of amounts necessary to
    satisfy guaranteed obligations under a participating group
    annuity general account contract are  plan assets. 
    Therefore, these assets are subject to certain fiduciary
    obligations under ERISA, which requires fiduciaries to perform
    their duties solely in the interest of ERISA plan participants
    and beneficiaries. On January 5, 2000, the Secretary of
    Labor issued final regulations indicating, in cases where an
    insurer has issued a policy backed by the insurer s general
    account to or for an employee benefit plan, the extent to which
    assets of the insurer constitute plan assets for purposes of
    ERISA and the Code. The regulations apply only with respect to a
    policy issued by an insurer on or before December 31, 1998
    ( Transition Policy ). No person will generally be
    liable under ERISA or the Code for conduct occurring prior to
    July 5, 2001, where the basis of a claim is that insurance
    company general account assets constitute plan assets. An
    insurer issuing a new policy that is backed by its general
    account and is issued to or for an employee benefit plan after
    December 31, 1998 will generally be subject to fiduciary
    obligations under ERISA, unless the policy is a guaranteed
    benefit policy.

The regulations indicate the requirements that must be met so
    that assets supporting a Transition Policy will not be
    considered plan assets for purposes of ERISA and the Code. These
    requirements include detailed disclosures to be made to the
    employee benefits plan and the requirement that the insurer must
    permit the policyholder to terminate the policy on 90 day
    notice and receive without penalty, at the policyholder s
    option, either (i) the unallocated accumulated fund balance
    (which may be subject to market value adjustment) or (ii) a
    book value payment of such amount in annual installments with
    interest. We have taken and continue to take steps designed to
    ensure compliance with these regulations.

Financial
    Holding Company Regulation   

Regulatory Agencies.   In connection with its
    acquisition of a federally-chartered commercial bank, MetLife,
    Inc. became a bank holding company and financial holding company
    on February 28, 2001. As such, the Holding Company is
    subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of
    1956, as amended (the  BHC Act ), and to inspection,
    examination, and supervision by the Board of Governors of the
    Federal Reserve Bank of New York System (the  FRB ).
    In addition, the Holding Company s banking subsidiary is
    subject to regulation and examination primarily by the Office of
    the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ) and
    secondarily by the FRB and the FDIC. The Office of Thrift
    Supervision has granted our request to suspend processing of our
    pending applications to convert MetLife Bank, N.A. from a
    national association to a federal savings bank and to convert
    MetLife, Inc. from a financial holding company to a savings and
    loan holding company.

Financial Holding Company Activities.   As a
    financial holding company, MetLife, Inc. s activities and
    investments are restricted by the BHC Act, as amended by the
    Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (the  GLB Act ), to
    those that are  financial  in nature or
     incidental  or  complementary  to such
    financial activities. Activities that are financial in nature
    include securities underwriting, dealing and market making,
    sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies, insurance
    underwriting and agency, merchant banking and activities that
    the FRB has

25

Table of Contents   

determined to be closely related to banking. In addition, under
    the insurance company investment portfolio provision of the GLB
    Act, financial holding companies are authorized to make
    investments in other financial and non-financial companies,
    through their insurance subsidiaries, that are in the ordinary
    course of business and in accordance with state insurance law,
    provided the financial holding company does not routinely manage
    or operate such companies except as may be necessary to obtain a
    reasonable return on investment.

Other Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies
    and Financial Holding Companies  
    Capital.   MetLife, Inc. and its insured depository
    institution subsidiary, MetLife Bank, are subject to risk-based
    and leverage capital guidelines issued by the federal banking
    regulatory agencies for banks and financial holding companies.
    The federal banking regulatory agencies are required by law to
    take specific prompt corrective actions with respect to
    institutions that do not meet minimum capital standards. At
    December 31, 2008, MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Bank were in
    compliance with the aforementioned guidelines.

Other Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies
    and Financial Holding Companies   Consumer Protection
    Laws.   Numerous other federal and state laws also
    affect the Holding Company s and MetLife Bank s
    earnings and activities, including federal and state consumer
    protection laws. The GLB Act included consumer privacy
    provisions that, among other things, require disclosure of a
    financial institution s privacy policy to customers. In
    addition, these provisions permit states to adopt more extensive
    privacy protections through legislation or regulation.

Other Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies
    and Financial Holding Companies   Change of
    Control.   Because MetLife, Inc. is a financial
    holding company and bank holding company under the federal
    banking laws, no person may acquire control of MetLife, Inc.
    without the prior approval of the FRB. A change of control is
    conclusively presumed upon acquisitions of 25% or more of any
    class of voting securities and rebuttably presumed upon
    acquisitions of 10% or more of any class of voting securities.
    Further, as a result of MetLife, Inc. s ownership of
    MetLife Bank, approval from the OCC would be required in
    connection with a change of control (generally presumed upon the
    acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting securities) of
    MetLife, Inc.

Competition  

Our management believes that competition faced by our business
    segments is based on a number of factors, including service,
    product features, scale, price, financial strength,
    claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, ebusiness capabilities
    and name recognition. We compete with a large number of other
    insurance companies, as well as non-insurance financial services
    companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for
    individual consumers, employer and other group customers as well
    as agents and other distributors of insurance and investment
    products. Some of these companies offer a broader array of
    products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to
    other insurance companies, have higher claims paying ability
    ratings. Many of our insurance products, particularly those
    offered by our Institutional segment, are underwritten annually
    and, accordingly, there is a risk that group purchasers may be
    able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors rather than
    renewing coverage with us.

We believe that the turbulence in financial markets that began
    in the latter half of 2008, its impact on the capital position
    of many competitors, and subsequent actions by regulators and
    rating agencies have altered the competitive environment. In
    particular, we believe that these factors have highlighted
    financial strength as the most significant differentiator from
    the perspective of customers and certain distributors. We
    believe the Company is well positioned to compete in this
    environment. In particular, the Company distributes many of its
    individual products through other financial institutions such as
    banks and broker dealers. These distribution partners are
    currently placing greater emphasis on the financial strength of
    the company whose products they sell. In addition, the financial
    market turbulence has highlighted the extent of the risk
    associated with certain variable annuity products and has led
    many companies in our industry to re-examine the pricing and
    features of the products they offer. The effects of current
    market conditions may also lead to consolidation in the life
    insurance industry. Although we cannot predict the ultimate
    impact of these conditions, we believe that the strongest
    companies will enjoy a competitive advantage as a result of the
    current circumstances.

26

Table of Contents   

We must attract and retain productive sales representatives to
    sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. Strong
    competition exists among insurance companies for sales
    representatives with demonstrated ability. We compete with other
    insurance companies for sales representatives primarily on the
    basis of our financial position, support services and
    compensation and product features. See
       Individual   Marketing and
    Distribution.  We continue to undertake several initiatives
    to grow our career agency force, while continuing to enhance the
    efficiency and production of our existing sales force. We cannot
    provide assurance that these initiatives will succeed in
    attracting and retaining new agents. Sales of individual
    insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of
    operations and financial position could be materially adversely
    affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining
    agents.

Numerous aspects of our business are subject to regulation.
    Legislative and other changes affecting the regulatory
    environment can affect our competitive position within the life
    insurance industry and within the broader financial services
    industry. See    Regulation  and  Risk
    Factors   Changes in U.S. Federal and State
    Securities Laws May Affect Our Operations and Our
    Profitability. 

Company
    Ratings  

Insurer financial strength ratings represent the opinions of
    rating agencies, including A.M. Best Company
    ( A.M. Best ), Fitch Ratings ( Fitch ),
    Moody s Investors Service ( Moody s ) and
    Standard   Poor s Ratings Services
    ( S P ), regarding the ability of an insurance
    company to meet its financial obligations to policyholders and
    contract holders. Credit ratings represent the opinions of
    rating agencies regarding an issuer s ability to repay its
    indebtedness.

Rating
    Stability Indicators   

Rating agencies use an  outlook statement  of
     positive,   stable,   negative 
    or  developing  to indicate a medium- or long-term
    trend in credit fundamentals which, if continued, may lead to a
    rating change. A rating may have a  stable  outlook to
    indicate that the rating is not expected to change; however, a
     stable  rating does not preclude a rating agency from
    changing a rating at any time, without notice. See  Risk
    Factors   A Downgrade or a Potential Downgrade in Our
    Financial Strength or Credit Ratings Could Result in a Loss of
    Business and Materially Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations. 

Rating
    Actions   

In September and October 2008, A.M. Best, Fitch,
    Moody s, and S P each revised its outlook for the
    U.S. life insurance sector to negative from stable. In
    January 2009, S P reiterated its negative outlook on the
    U.S. life insurance sector. Management believes that the
    rating agencies may heighten the level of scrutiny that they
    apply to such institutions, may increase the frequency and scope
    of their credit reviews, may request additional information from
    the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital
    and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for
    maintenance of certain ratings levels.

In November 2008, A.M. Best downgraded the insurer
    financial strength rating for Texas Life Insurance Company from
    A to A .

At December 31, 2008, A.M. Best, Fitch, Moody s
    and S P each had MetLife and its Subsidiaries  insurer
    financial strength and credit ratings on  stable 
    outlook; however, (i) on February 9, 2009,
    Moody s revised its outlook to  negative, 
    (ii) on February 11, 2009, Fitch revised its outlook
    to  negative  and anticipates completing its review
    within the next several weeks and will reflect those results in
    the ratings at that time, (iii) on February 20, 2009,
    A.M. Best downgraded the credit ratings of MetLife, Inc. and
    certain of its subsidiaries with a  stable  outlook,
    and (iv) on February 26, 2009, S P downgraded the
    insurer financial strength and credit ratings of MetLife, Inc.
    and certain of its subsidiaries, with a  negative 
    outlook.

Our insurer financial strength ratings and credit ratings as of
    the date of this filing are listed in the tables below:

27

Table of Contents   

Insurer
    Financial Strength Ratings   

A.M. Best (1) 

Fitch (2) 

Moody s (3) 

S P (4) 

First MetLife Investors Insurance Company

A+

N/R

N/R

AA 

General American Life Insurance Company

A+

AA

Aa2

AA 

MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut

A+

AA

Aa2

AA 

MetLife Investors Insurance Company

A+

AA

Aa2

AA 

MetLife Investors USA Insurance Company

A+

AA

Aa2

AA 

Metropolitan Casualty Insurance Company

A

N/R

N/R

N/R

Metropolitan Direct Property and Casualty Insurance Company

A

N/R

N/R

N/R

Metropolitan General Insurance Company

A

N/R

N/R

N/R

Metropolitan Group Property   Casualty Insurance
    Company

A

N/R

N/R

N/R

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company

A+

AA

Aa2

AA 

Metropolitan Lloyds Insurance Company of Texas

A

N/R

N/R

N/R

Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company

A

N/R

N/R

N/R

Metropolitan Tower Life Insurance Company

A+

N/R

Aa3

N/R

New England Life Insurance Company

A+

AA

Aa2

AA 

Texas Life Insurance Company

A-

N/R

N/R

N/R

Credit
    Ratings   

A.M. Best (1) 

Fitch (2) 

Moody s (3) 

S P (4) 

General American Life Insurance Company (Surplus Notes)

a

N/R

A1

A

MetLife Capital Trust IV   X
    (Trust Securities)

bbb

A 

Baa1

BBB

MetLife Funding, Inc. (Commercial Paper)

AMB-1+

F1+

P-1

A-1+

MetLife Short Term Funding LLC (Commercial Paper)

N/R

N/R

P-1

A-1+

MetLife, Inc. (Commercial Paper)

AMB-1

F1

P-1

A-2

MetLife, Inc. (Senior Unsecured Debt)

a 

A

A2

A 

MetLife, Inc. (Subordinated Debt)

bbb+

N/R

A3

NR

MetLife, Inc. (Junior Subordinated Debt)

bbb

A 

Baa1

BBB

MetLife, Inc. (Preferred Stock)

bbb

A 

Baa1

BBB

MetLife, Inc. (Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock)

bbb

A 

Baa1

BBB 

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (Surplus Notes)

a

A+

A1

A

Metropolitan Life Global Funding I (Senior Secured Debt)

aa 

NR

Aa2

AA 

MetLife Institutional Funding I, LLC (Senior Secured Debt)

aa 

NR

Aa2

AA 

(1)  

A.M. Best financial strength ratings range from  A++
    (superior)  to  S (Suspended).  Ratings of
     A+  and  A  are in the  superior 
    and  excellent  categories, respectively. 

A.M. Best s long-term credit ratings range from
     aaa (exceptional)  to  d (in default).  A
     +  or     may be appended to ratings
    from  aa  to  ccc  to indicate relative
    position within a category. Ratings of  a  and
     bbb  are in the  strong  and
     adequate  categories. 

A.M. Best s short-term credit ratings range from
     AMB-1+ (strongest)  to  d (in default).  

(2)  

Fitch insurer financial strength ratings range from  AAA
    (exceptionally strong)  to  C (ceased or interrupted
    payments imminent).  A  +  or    
    may be appended to ratings from  AA  to
     CCC  to indicate relative position within a category.
    A rating of  AA  is in the  very strong 
    category. 

Fitch long-term credit ratings range from  AAA (highest
    credit quality),  to  D (default).  A
     +  or     may be appended to ratings
    from  AA  to  CCC  to indicate relative
    position within a category. Ratings of  A  and
     BBB  are in the  strong  and
     adequate  categories, respectively. 

28

Table of Contents   

Fitch short-term credit ratings range from  F1+
    (exceptionally strong credit quality)  to  D (in
    default).  A rating of  F1  is in the
     highest credit quality  category. 

(3)  

Moody s insurance financial strength ratings range from
     Aaa (exceptional)  to  C (extremely poor). 
    A numeric modifier may be appended to ratings from
     Aa  to  Caa  to indicate relative position
    within a category, with 1 being the highest and 3 being the
    lowest. A rating of  Aa  is in the
     excellent  category. Moody s long-term credit
    ratings range from  Aaa (highest quality)  to  C
    (typically in default).  A numeric modifier may be appended
    to ratings from  Aa  to  Caa  to indicate
    relative position within a category, with 1 being the highest
    and 3 being the lowest. Ratings of  A  and
     Baa  are in the  upper-medium grade  and
     medium-grade  categories, respectively. 

Moody s short-term credit ratings range from
      P-1 
    (superior)  to  NP (not prime).  

(4)  

S P long-term insurer financial strength ratings range from
     AAA (extremely strong)  to  R (under regulatory
    supervision).  A  +  or     
    may be appended to ratings from  AA  to
     CCC  to indicate relative position within a category.
    A rating of  AA  is in the  very strong 
    category. 

S P long-term credit ratings range from  AAA
    (extremely strong)  to  D (payment default).  A
     +  or      may be appended to
    ratings from  AA  to  CCC  to indicate
    relative position within a category. A rating of  A 
    is in the  strong  category. A rating of
     BBB  has adequate protection parameters and is
    considered investment grade. 

S P short-term credit ratings range from
      A-1+ 
    (extremely strong)  to  D (payment default).  A
    rating of
      A-1  
    is in the  strong  category. 

N/R  

indicates not rated. 

The foregoing insurer financial strength ratings reflect each
    rating agency s opinion of MLIC and the Holding
    Company s other insurance subsidiaries  financial
    characteristics with respect to their ability to pay obligations
    under insurance policies and contracts in accordance with their
    terms, and are not evaluations directed toward the protection of
    investors in the Holding Company s securities. Credit
    ratings are opinions of each agency with respect to specific
    securities and contractual financial obligations and the
    issuer s ability and willingness to meet those obligations
    when due. Neither insurer financial strength nor credit ratings
    are statements of fact nor are they recommendations to purchase,
    hold or sell any security, contract or policy. Each rating
    should be evaluated independently of any other rating.

A ratings downgrade (or the potential for such a downgrade) of
    MLIC or any of the Holding Company s other insurance
    subsidiaries could potentially, among other things, increase the
    number of policies surrendered and withdrawals by policyholders
    of cash values from their policies, adversely affect
    relationships with broker-dealers, banks, agents, wholesalers
    and other distributors of our products and services, negatively
    impact new sales, and adversely affect our ability to compete
    and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition. See also
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and
    Capital Resources   Extraordinary Market
    Conditions  for a more complete description of the impact
    of a ratings downgrade.

Employees  

At December 31, 2008, we had approximately
    57,000 employees. We believe that our relations with our
    employees are satisfactory.

Executive
    Officers of the Registrant  

Set forth below is information regarding the executive officers
    of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC:

C. Robert Henrikson,  age 61, has been Chairman,
    President and Chief Executive Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC
    since April 25, 2006. Previously, he was President and
    Chief Executive Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from
    March 1, 2006, President and Chief Operating Officer of
    MetLife, Inc. from June 2004, and President of the
    U.S. Insurance and Financial Services businesses of
    MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from July 2002 to June 2004. He served as
    President of Institutional Business of MetLife, Inc. from
    September 1999 to July 2002 and President of Institutional
    Business of MLIC from May 1999 through June 2002. He was Senior
    Executive Vice President,

29

Table of Contents   

Institutional Business, of MLIC from December 1997 to May 1999,
    Executive Vice President, Institutional Business, from January
    1996 to December 1997, and Senior Vice President, Pensions, from
    January 1991 to January 1995. He is a director of MetLife, Inc.
    and MLIC.

Steven A. Kandarian,  age 56, has been Executive Vice
    President and Chief Investment Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC
    since April 2005. Previously, he was the executive director of
    the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation from 2001 to 2004.
    Before joining the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation,
    Mr. Kandarian was founder and managing partner of Orion
    Capital Partners, LP, where he managed a private equity fund
    specializing in venture capital and corporate acquisitions for
    eight years.

James L. Lipscomb,  age 62, has been Executive Vice
    President and General Counsel of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since
    July 2003. He was Senior Vice President and Deputy General
    Counsel from July 2001 to July 2003. Mr. Lipscomb was
    President and Chief Executive Officer of Conning Corporation, a
    former subsidiary of MLIC, from March 2000 to July 2001, prior
    to which he served in various senior management positions with
    MLIC for more than five years.

Maria R. Morris,  age 46, has been Executive Vice
    President, Technology and Operations, of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC
    since January 2008. Previously, she was Executive Vice President
    of MLIC from December 2005 to January 2008, Senior Vice
    President of MLIC from October 2004 to December 2005, and Vice
    President of MLIC from March 1995 to October 2004.

William J. Mullaney,  age 49, has been President,
    Institutional Business, of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since January
    2007. Previously, he was President of Metropolitan Property and
    Casualty Insurance Company from January 2005 to January 2007,
    Senior Vice President of Metropolitan Property and Casualty
    Insurance Company from July 2002 to December 2004, Senior Vice
    President, Institutional Business, of MLIC from August 2001 to
    July 2002, and a Vice President of MLIC for more than five
    years. He is a director of MetLife Bank, N.A. and MetLife
    Insurance Company of Connecticut.

William J. Toppeta,  age 60, has been President,
    International, of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since June 2001. He was
    President of Client Services and Chief Administrative Officer of
    MetLife, Inc. from September 1999 to June 2001 and President of
    Client Services and Chief Administrative Officer of MLIC from
    May 1999 to June 2001. He was Senior Executive Vice President,
    Head of Client Services, of MLIC from March 1999 to May 1999,
    Senior Executive Vice President, Individual, from February 1998
    to March 1999, Executive Vice President, Individual Business,
    from July 1996 to February 1998, Senior Vice President from
    October 1995 to July 1996 and President and Chief Executive
    Officer of its Canadian Operations from July 1993 to October
    1995.

Lisa M. Weber,  age 46, has been President,
    Individual Business, of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since June 2004.
    Previously, she was Senior Executive Vice President and Chief
    Administrative Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from June 2001
    to June 2004. She was Executive Vice President of MetLife, Inc.
    and MLIC from December 1999 to June 2001 and was head of Human
    Resources of MLIC from March 1998 to December 2003. She was
    Senior Vice President of MetLife, Inc. from September 1999 to
    November 1999 and Senior Vice President of MLIC from March 1998
    to November 1999. Previously, she was Senior Vice President of
    Human Resources of PaineWebber Group Incorporated, where she was
    employed for ten years. Ms. Weber is a director of MetLife
    Bank, N.A. and MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut.

William J. Wheeler,  age 47, has been Executive Vice
    President and Chief Financial Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC
    since December 2003, prior to which he was a Senior Vice
    President of MLIC from 1997 to December 2003. Previously, he was
    a Senior Vice President of Donaldson, Lufkin  
    Jenrette for more than five years. Mr. Wheeler is a
    director of MetLife Bank, N.A.

Trademarks  

We have a worldwide trademark portfolio that we consider
    important in the marketing of our products and services,
    including, among others, the trademark  MetLife.  We
    also have the exclusive license to use the
    Peanuts   

    characters in the area of financial services and healthcare
    benefit services in the United States and internationally under
    an advertising and premium agreement with United Feature
    Syndicate until December 31, 2012. Furthermore, we also
    have a non-exclusive license to use certain Citigroup-owned
    trademarks in connection

30

Table of Contents   

with the marketing, distribution or sale of life insurance and
    annuity products under a licensing agreement with Citigroup
    until June 30, 2015. We believe that our rights in our
    trademarks and under our
    Peanuts   

    characters license and our Citigroup license are well protected.

Available
    Information  

MetLife files periodic reports, proxy statements and other
    information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and
    other information may be obtained by visiting the Public
    Reference Room of the SEC at its Headquarters Office,
    100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549 or by
    calling the SEC at 1-202-551-8090 or
     1-800-SEC-0330 
    (Office of Investor Education and Advocacy). In addition, the
    SEC maintains an internet website (www.sec.gov) that contains
    reports, proxy statements, and other information regarding
    issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including
    MetLife, Inc.

MetLife makes available, free of charge, on its website
    (www.metlife.com) through the Investor Relations page, its
    annual reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    current reports on
     Form 8-K, 
    and amendments to all those reports, as soon as reasonably
    practicable after filing (furnishing) such reports to the SEC.
    Other information found on the website is not part of this or
    any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.

Item 1A.      

Risk
    Factors   

Adverse
    Capital and Credit Market Conditions May Significantly Affect
    Our Ability to Meet Liquidity Needs, Access to Capital and Cost
    of Capital   

The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme
    volatility and disruption. At times, the volatility and
    disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the
    markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of
    liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers.

We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our
    debt and dividends on our capital stock, maintain our securities
    lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities.
    Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our
    operations, and our business will suffer. The principal sources
    of our liquidity are insurance premiums, annuity considerations,
    deposit funds, cash flow from our investment portfolio and
    assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily
    convertible into cash. Sources of liquidity in normal markets
    also include short-term instruments such as repurchase
    agreements and commercial paper. Sources of capital in normal
    markets include long-term instruments, medium- and long-term
    debt, junior subordinated debt securities, capital securities
    and equity securities.

In the event current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may
    have to seek additional financing. The availability of
    additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as
    market conditions, the general availability of credit, the
    volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit
    to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and
    credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or
    lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or
    short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment
    losses or if the level of our business activity decreased due to
    a market downturn. Similarly, our access to funds may be
    impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take
    negative actions against us. Our internal sources of liquidity
    may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be
    able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable
    terms, or at all.

Our liquidity requirements may change. For instance, we have
    funding agreements which can be put to us after a period of
    notice. The notice requirements vary; however, the shortest
    period is 90 days, applicable to approximately
    $1 billion of such liabilities at December 31, 2008.

Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit
    markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate
    our business, most significantly our insurance operations. Such
    market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely
    manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy statutory capital
    requirements; and access the capital necessary to grow our
    business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital,
    issue different types of capital than we would otherwise, less
    effectively deploy such capital, issue shorter tenor securities
    than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital which
    could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our
    financial flexibility. Recently our credit spreads have widened
    considerably. Our results of operations, financial condition,

31

Table of Contents   

cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially
    adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets.

Difficult
    Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy
    Generally May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and
    Results of Operations and These Conditions May Not Improve in
    the Near Future   

Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions
    in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in
    the United States and elsewhere around the world. The stress
    experienced by global capital markets that began in the second
    half of 2007 continued and substantially increased during 2008.
    Concerns over the availability and cost of credit, the
    U.S. mortgage market, geopolitical issues, energy costs,
    inflation and a declining real estate market in the United
    States contributed to increased volatility and diminished
    expectations for the economy and the markets in the near term.
    These factors, combined with declining business and consumer
    confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated a
    recession. In addition, the fixed-income markets have
    experienced a period of extreme volatility which negatively
    impacted market liquidity conditions. Initially, the concerns on
    the part of market participants were focused on the sub-prime
    segment of the mortgage-backed securities market. However, these
    concerns expanded to include a broad range of mortgage- and
    asset-backed and other fixed income securities, including those
    rated investment grade, the U.S. and international credit
    and interbank money markets generally, and a wide range of
    financial institutions and markets, asset classes and sectors.
    Securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and
    have less opportunity for disposal. Domestic and international
    equity markets have also experienced heightened volatility and
    turmoil, with issuers (such as our company) that have exposure
    to the real estate, mortgage and credit markets particularly
    affected. These events and continued market upheavals may have
    an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large
    investment portfolio and are also dependent upon customer
    behavior. Our revenues are likely to decline in such
    circumstances and our profit margins could erode. In addition,
    in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the
    global credit crisis, we could incur significant losses. Even in
    the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial
    risk of loss due to market volatility. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and
    Capital Resources   Extraordinary Market
    Conditions. 

We are a significant writer of variable annuity products. The
    account values of these products will be affected by the
    downturn in capital markets. Any decrease in account values will
    decrease the fees generated by our variable annuity products,
    cause the amortization of deferred acquisition costs to
    accelerate and may increase the level of reserves we must carry
    to support those variable annuities issued with any associated
    guarantees.

Factors such as consumer spending, business investment,
    government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital
    markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic
    environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our
    business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher
    unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings,
    lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the
    demand for our financial and insurance products could be
    adversely affected. In addition, we may experience an elevated
    incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Our
    policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or
    stop paying insurance premiums altogether. Adverse changes in
    the economy could affect earnings negatively and could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
    and financial condition. The current crisis has also raised the
    possibility of future legislative and regulatory actions in
    addition to the recent enactment of the Emergency Economic
    Stabilization Act of 2008 (the  EESA ) that could
    further impact our business. We cannot predict whether or when
    such actions may occur, or what impact, if any, such actions
    could have on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition. See    There Can be No Assurance that
    Actions of the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve Bank of New
    York and Other Governmental and Regulatory Bodies for the
    Purpose of Stabilizing the Financial Markets Will Achieve the
    Intended Effect  and    Competitive Factors
    May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and Profitability. 

There
    Can be No Assurance that Actions of the U.S. Government, Federal
    Reserve Bank of New York and Other Governmental and Regulatory
    Bodies for the Purpose of Stabilizing the Financial Markets Will
    Achieve the Intended Effect   

In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system
    and financial markets and going concern threats to investment
    banks and other financial institutions, on October 3, 2008,
    President Bush signed the EESA into law.

32

Table of Contents   

Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury has the authority
    to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of
    mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions
    for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets. At
    December 31, 2008, $250 billion of this amount had
    been dedicated to making capital infusions to banking
    institutions and their holding companies. The Federal
    Government, Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the Federal
    Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) and other
    governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering
    taking other actions to address the financial crisis. For
    example, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York has been making
    funds available to commercial and financial companies under a
    number of programs, including the Commercial Paper Funding
    Facility and the FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee
    Program (the  FDIC Program ), as discussed further
    below, and legislation is pending in Congress that will allow
    bankruptcy judges in certain bankruptcy proceedings to alter the
    terms of certain mortgages, including reducing the principal
    amount of the loan. There can be no assurance as to what impact
    such actions will have on the financial markets, whether on the
    levels of volatility currently being experienced, the levels of
    lending by financial institutions, the prices buyers are willing
    to pay for financial assets or otherwise. Continued volatility,
    low levels of credit availability and low prices for financial
    assets materially and adversely affect our business, financial
    condition and results of operations and the trading price of our
    common stock. Furthermore, if the mortgage-related legislation
    is passed, it could cause loss of principal on certain of our
    nonagency prime residential mortgage backed security holdings
    and could cause a ratings downgrade in such holdings which, in
    turn, would cause an increase in unrealized losses on such
    securities. See     We Are Exposed to
    Significant Financial and Capital Markets Risk Which May
    Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Financial Condition
    and Liquidity, and Our Net Investment Income Can Vary from
    Period to Period.  Finally, the choices made by the
    U.S. Treasury in its distribution of amounts available
    under the EESA could have the effect of supporting some parts of
    the financial system more than others. See
       Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our
    Market Share and Profitability. 

MetLife, Inc. and some or all of its affiliates may be eligible
    to sell assets to the U.S. Treasury under one or more of
    the programs established under EESA, and some of their assets
    may be among those the U.S. Treasury offers to purchase,
    either directly or through auction. Furthermore, as a bank
    holding company, MetLife, Inc. could be selected to participate
    in the U.S. Treasury s capital infusion program,
    pursuant to which the U.S. Treasury purchases preferred
    shares of banking institutions or their holding companies and
    acquires warrants for their common shares. If we choose to
    participate in the capital infusion program of the U.S.
    Treasury, we will become subject to requirements and
    restrictions on our business. Issuing preferred shares and
    warrants could dilute the ownership interests of stockholders or
    affect our ability to raise capital in other transactions. We
    will also become subject to restrictions on the compensation
    that we can offer or pay to certain executive employees,
    including incentives or performance-based compensation. These
    restrictions could hinder or prevent us from attracting and
    retaining management with the talent and experience to manage
    our business effectively. Limits on our ability to deduct
    certain compensation paid to executive employees will also be
    imposed. The remaining $350 billion authorized by the EESA
    has been made available to the U.S. Treasury. Congress and
    the current Administration are considering the imposition of
    additional requirements and conditions on the use of these
    additional funds. See  Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Liquidity and Capital
    Resources   Extraordinary Market Conditions. 

On December 5, 2008, MetLife, Inc. elected to continue to
    participate in the debt guarantee component of the FDIC Program.
    Under the terms of the FDIC Program, the FDIC will guarantee
    through June 2012 (or maturity, if earlier) the payment of
    certain newly-issued senior unsecured debt of MetLife, Inc. and
    any eligible affiliates. We also notified the FDIC that we have
    elected the option of excluding specified senior unsecured debt
    maturing after June 30, 2012, from the guarantee before
    reaching the limits on the amount of guaranteed debt under the
    FDIC Program ($398 million for MetLife, Inc. and
    $178 million for its affiliate, MetLife Bank, N.A., which
    may issue guaranteed debt under its limit, as well as unused
    amounts under MetLife, Inc. s limit). In addition, we opted
    out of the component of the FDIC Program that guarantees
    non-interest bearing deposit transaction accounts. We cannot
    predict how the markets may react to these elections or to any
    debt issued subject to the terms of the FDIC Program. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and
    Capital Resources   Extraordinary Market
    Conditions. 

33

Table of Contents   

The
    Impairment of Other Financial Institutions Could Adversely
    Affect Us   

We have exposure to many different industries and
    counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with
    counterparties in the financial services industry, including
    brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge
    funds and other investment funds and other institutions. Many of
    these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of
    default of our counterparty. In addition, with respect to
    secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when
    the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at
    prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or
    derivative exposure due to us. We also have exposure to these
    financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt
    instruments, non-redeemable and redeemable preferred securities,
    derivative transactions and equity investments. Further,
    potential action by governments and regulatory bodies in
    response to the financial crisis affecting the global banking
    system and financial markets, such as investment,
    nationalization and other intervention, could negatively impact
    these instruments, securities, transactions and investments.
    There can be no assurance that any such losses or impairments to
    the carrying value of these assets would not materially and
    adversely affect our business and results of operations.

Our
    Participation in a Securities Lending Program Subjects Us to
    Potential Liquidity and Other Risks   

We participate in a securities lending program whereby blocks of
    securities, which are included in fixed maturity securities and
    short-term investments, are loaned to third parties, primarily
    major brokerage firms and commercial banks. We generally require
    collateral equal to 102% of the current estimated fair value of
    the loaned securities to be obtained at the inception of a loan,
    and maintained at a level greater than or equal to 100% for the
    duration of the loan. During the extraordinary market events
    occurring in the fourth quarter of 2008, we, in limited
    instances, accepted collateral less than 102% at the inception
    of certain loans, but never less than 100%, of the estimated
    fair value of such loaned securities. These loans involved
    U.S. Government Treasury Bills which we considered to have
    limited variation in their estimated fair value during the term
    of the loan. Securities with a cost or amortized cost of
    $20.8 billion and $41.1 billion and an estimated fair
    value of $22.9 billion and $42.1 billion were on loan
    under the program at December 31, 2008 and
    December 31, 2007, respectively. Securities loaned under
    such transactions may be sold or repledged by the transferee. We
    were liable for cash collateral under our control of
    $23.3 billion and $43.3 billion at December 31,
    2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively.

Returns of loaned securities by the third parties would require
    us to return the cash collateral associated with such loaned
    securities. In addition, in some cases, the maturity of the
    securities held as invested collateral (i.e., securities that we
    have purchased with cash received from the third parties) may
    exceed the term of the related securities on loan and the
    estimated fair value may fall below the amount of cash received
    as collateral and invested. If we are required to return
    significant amounts of cash collateral on short notice and we
    are forced to sell securities to meet the return obligation, we
    may have difficulty selling such collateral that is invested in
    securities in a timely manner, be forced to sell securities in a
    volatile or illiquid market for less than we otherwise would
    have been able to realize under normal market conditions, or
    both. In addition, under stressful capital market and economic
    conditions, such as those conditions we have experienced
    recently, liquidity broadly deteriorates, which may further
    restrict our ability to sell securities.

Of this $23.3 billion of cash collateral at
    December 31, 2008, $5.1 billion was on open terms,
    meaning that the related loaned security could be returned to us
    on the next business day requiring return of cash collateral and
    the following amounts are due within 30 days, and
    60 days   $14.7 billion and
    $3.5 billion, respectively. The estimated fair value of the
    securities related to the cash collateral on open at
    December 31, 2008 has been reduced to $5.0 billion
    from $15.8 billion as of November 30, 2008. Of the
    $5.0 billion of estimated fair value of the securities
    related to the cash collateral on open at December 31,
    2008, $4.4 billion were U.S. Treasury and agency
    securities which, if put to us, can be immediately sold to
    satisfy the cash requirements. The remainder of the securities
    on loan are primarily U.S. Treasury and agency securities,
    and very liquid residential mortgage-backed securities. Within
    the U.S. Treasury securities on loan, they are primarily
    holdings of on-the-run U.S. Treasury securities, the most
    liquid U.S. Treasury securities available. If these high
    quality securities that are on loan are put back to us, the
    proceeds from immediately selling these securities can be used
    to satisfy the related cash requirements. The estimated fair
    value of the reinvestment portfolio acquired with the cash
    collateral was $19.5 billion at December 31, 2008, and
    consisted principally of fixed maturity securities (including
    residential mortgage-backed, asset-backed, U.S. corporate
    and foreign corporate securities). If the on loan securities or
    the

34

Table of Contents   

reinvestment portfolio become less liquid, we have the liquidity
    resources of most of our general account available to meet any
    potential cash demand when securities are put back to us. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations  
    Investments   Securities Lending. 

If we decrease the amount of our securities lending activities
    over time, the amount of income generated by these activities
    will also likely decline.

We Are
    Exposed to Significant Financial and Capital Markets Risk which
    May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Financial
    Condition and Liquidity, and Our Net Investment Income Can Vary
    from Period to Period   

We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets
    risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads,
    equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange
    rates, market volatility, the performance of the economy in
    general, the performance of the specific obligors included in
    our portfolio and other factors outside our control. Our
    exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market
    price and cash flow variability associated with changes in
    interest rates. A rise in interest rates will increase the net
    unrealized loss position of our fixed income investment
    portfolio and, if long-term interest rates rise dramatically
    within a six to twelve month time period, certain of our life
    insurance businesses may be exposed to disintermediation risk.
    Disintermediation risk refers to the risk that our policyholders
    may surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate
    environment, requiring us to liquidate fixed income investments
    in an unrealized loss position. Due to the long-term nature of
    the liabilities associated with certain of our life insurance
    businesses, guaranteed benefits on variable annuities, and
    structured settlements, sustained declines in long-term interest
    rates may subject us to reinvestment risks and increased hedging
    costs. In other situations, declines in interest rates may
    result in increasing the duration of certain life insurance
    liabilities, creating asset liability duration mismatches. Our
    investment portfolio also contains interest rate sensitive
    instruments, such as fixed income securities, which may be
    adversely affected by changes in interest rates from
    governmental monetary policies, domestic and international
    economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our
    control. A rise in interest rates would increase the net
    unrealized loss position of our fixed income investment
    portfolio, offset by our ability to earn higher rates of return
    on funds reinvested. Conversely, a decline in interest rates
    would decrease the net unrealized loss position of our fixed
    income investment portfolio, offset by lower rates of return on
    funds reinvested. Our mitigation efforts with respect to
    interest rate risk are primarily focused towards maintaining an
    investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a
    weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the
    duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. However,
    our estimate of the liability cash flow profile may be
    inaccurate and we may be forced to liquidate fixed income
    investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover the
    liability. Although we take measures to manage the economic
    risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we
    may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our fixed
    income investments relative to our liabilities. See also
       Changes in Market Interest Rates May
    Significantly Affect Our Profitability. 

Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price
    and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit
    spreads. A widening of credit spreads will increase the net
    unrealized loss position of the fixed income investment
    portfolio, will increase losses associated with credit based
    non-qualifying derivatives where we assume credit exposure, and,
    if issuer credit spreads increase significantly or for an
    extended period of time, would likely result in higher
    other-than-temporary impairments. Credit spread tightening will
    reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of
    fixed maturity securities. In addition, market volatility can
    make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading
    becomes less frequent. As such, valuations may include
    assumptions or estimates that may have significant period to
    period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated results of operations or financial condition.
    Credit spreads on both corporate and structured securities
    widened during 2008, resulting in continuing depressed pricing.
    Continuing challenges include continued weakness in the
    U.S. real estate market and increased mortgage
    delinquencies, investor anxiety over the U.S. economy,
    rating agency downgrades of various structured products and
    financial issuers, unresolved issues with structured investment
    vehicles and monoline financial guarantee insurers, deleveraging
    of financial institutions and hedge funds and a serious
    dislocation in the inter-bank market. If significant, continued
    volatility, changes in interest rates, changes in credit spreads
    and defaults, a lack of pricing transparency, market liquidity,
    declines in equity prices, and the strengthening or weakening of
    foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, individually or
    in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated results of

35

Table of Contents   

operations, financial condition or cash flows through realized
    losses, impairments, and changes in unrealized positions.

Our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for
    lower earnings associated with certain of our insurance
    businesses, such as variable annuities, where fee income is
    earned based upon the estimated fair value of the assets under
    management. In addition, certain of our annuity products offer
    guaranteed benefits which increase our potential benefit
    exposure should equity markets decline. We are also exposed to
    interest rate and equity risk based upon the discount rate and
    expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with
    our pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations.
    Sustained declines in long-term interest rates or equity returns
    likely would have a negative effect on the funded status of
    these plans.

Our exposure to real estate risk relates to market price and
    cash flow variability associated with changes in real estate
    markets, default and bankruptcy rates, geographic and sector
    concentration as well as illiquidity of real estate investments.
    The current economic environment has led to significant
    weakening of the residential and commercial real estate markets,
    increases in foreclosures, bankruptcies and unsuccessful
    development projects as well as limited access to credit. Our
    real estate investments, including those held by joint ventures
    and real estate funds, may be negatively impacted by weakened
    local real estate conditions, such as oversupply, reduced demand
    and the availability and creditworthiness of current and
    prospective tenants and borrowers. In addition, real estate
    investments are relatively illiquid, and could limit our
    ability, and that of our joint venture partners and real estate
    fund managers, to sell assets to respond to changing economic,
    financial and investment conditions. Also, these factors could
    impact mortgage and consumer loan fundamentals which are further
    discussed under    Defaults on Our Mortgage and
    Consumer Loans and Volatility in Performance May Adversely
    Affect Our Profitability.  These factors and others beyond
    our control could have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash
    flows through net investment income, realized losses and
    impairments.

Our primary foreign currency exchange risks are described under
       Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange
    Rates and Foreign Securities Markets Could Negatively Affect our
    Profitability.  Significant declines in equity prices,
    changes in U.S. interest rates, changes in credit spreads,
    and changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have a
    material adverse effect on our consolidated results of
    operations, financial condition or liquidity. Changes in these
    factors, which are significant risks to us, can affect our net
    investment income in any period, and such changes can be
    substantial.

We invest a portion of our invested assets in leveraged buy-out
    funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds reported
    within Other Limited Partnerships, many of which make private
    equity investments. The amount and timing of net investment
    income from such investment funds tends to be uneven as a result
    of the performance of the underlying investments, including
    private equity investments. The timing of distributions from the
    funds, which depends on particular events relating to the
    underlying investments, as well as the funds  schedules for
    making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult
    to predict. As a result, the amount of net investment income
    that we record from these investments can vary substantially
    from quarter to quarter. Recent equity, real estate and credit
    market volatility have further reduced net investment income and
    related yields for these types of investments and we may
    continue to experience reduced net investment income due to
    continued volatility in the equity, real estate and credit
    markets in 2009. In addition, due to the normal lag in the
    preparation of and then receipt of periodic financial statements
    from other limited partnership interests and real estate joint
    ventures and funds, results from late 2008 during periods of
    volatility will be reported to us in 2009.

Our
    Requirements to Pledge Collateral or Make Payments Related to
    Declines in Value of Specified Assets May Adversely Affect Our
    Liquidity and Expose Us to Counterparty Credit
    Risk   

Many of our transactions with financial and other institutions
    specify the circumstances under which the parties are required
    to pledge collateral related to any decline in the value of the
    specified assets. In addition, under the terms of some of our
    transactions, we may be required to make payments to our
    counterparties related to any decline in the value of the
    specified assets. The amount of collateral we may be required to
    pledge and the payments we may be required to make under these
    agreements may increase under certain circumstances, which could
    adversely affect our liquidity.

36

Table of Contents   

In December 2007, we entered into an agreement with an
    unaffiliated financial institution that referenced
    $2.5 billion of
     35-year 
    surplus notes issued by MetLife Reinsurance Company of
    Charleston ( MRC ). Based on the decline in the
    estimated fair value of MRC s surplus notes, we have
    pledged collateral and made payments to the unaffiliated
    financial institution. We may in the future be required to
    pledge additional collateral or make additional payments to this
    unaffiliated financial institution based on any further declines
    in the estimated fair value of MRC s surplus notes. Any
    collateral pledged by us under the agreement is required to be
    held in a segregated account and remains on our balance sheet.
    Any payments to the unaffiliated financial institution may
    reduce the amount under the agreement on which our interest
    payment was due but may not reduce the principal amount of the
    surplus notes. Such payments have been accounted for as a
    receivable and will not be realized until the termination of the
    agreement with the unaffiliated financial institution.
    Furthermore, with respect to any such payments, we have
    unsecured risk to the unaffiliated financial institution as
    these amounts are not required to be held in a third-party
    custodial account or segregated from the unaffiliated financial
    institution s funds. Such collateral pledged and payments
    could have an adverse effect on our liquidity. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and
    Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity
    and Capital Uses   Collateral Financing
    Arrangements  and Note 11 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Our
    Statutory Reserve Financings May be Subject to Cost Increases
    and New Financings May be Subject to Limited Market
    Capacity   

To support our level premium term life and universal life with
    secondary guarantees businesses and MLIC s closed block, we
    currently utilize capital markets solutions for financing a
    portion of our statutory reserve requirements. While we have
    financing facilities in place for our previously written
    business and have remaining capacity in existing facilities to
    support writings through the end of 2009 or later, certain of
    these facilities are subject to cost increases upon the
    occurrence of specified ratings downgrades of MetLife or are
    subject to periodic repricing. Any resulting cost increases
    could negatively impact our financial results.

Further, the capacity for these reserve funding structures
    available in the current marketplace is limited. If capacity
    continues to be limited for a prolonged period of time, our
    ability to obtain new funding for these structures may be
    hindered, and as a result, our ability to write additional
    business in a cost effective manner may be impacted.

Defaults
    on Our Mortgage and Consumer Loans and Volatility in Performance
    May Adversely Affect Our Profitability   

Our mortgage and consumer loans face default risk and are
    principally collateralized by commercial, agricultural and
    residential properties, as well as automobiles. The carrying
    value of mortgage and consumer loans is stated at original cost
    net of repayments, amortization of premiums, accretion of
    discounts and valuation allowances, except for residential
    mortgage loans held-for-sale accounted for under the fair value
    option which are carried at estimated fair value, as determined
    on a recurring basis and certain commercial and residential
    mortgage loans carried at the lower of cost or estimated fair
    value, as determined on a nonrecurring basis. We establish
    valuation allowances for estimated impairments as of the balance
    sheet date. Such valuation allowances are based on the excess
    carrying value of the loan over the present value of expected
    future cash flows discounted at the loan s original
    effective interest rate, the value of the loan s collateral
    if the loan is in the process of foreclosure or otherwise
    collateral dependent, or the loan s estimated fair value if
    the loan is held-for-sale. We also establish allowances for loan
    losses when a loss contingency exists for pools of loans with
    similar characteristics, such as mortgage loans based on similar
    property types or loan to value risk factors. At
    December 31, 2008, loans that were either delinquent or in
    the process of foreclosure totaled less than 0.5% of our
    mortgage and consumer loan investments. The performance of our
    mortgage and consumer loan investments, however, may fluctuate
    in the future. In addition, substantially all of our mortgage
    loans held-for-investment have balloon payment maturities. An
    increase in the default rate of our mortgage and consumer loan
    investments could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations and financial condition. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations  
    Investments   Mortgage and Consumer Loans. 

Further, any geographic or sector concentration of our mortgage
    or consumer loans may have adverse effects on our investment
    portfolios and consequently on our consolidated results of
    operations or financial condition.

37

Table of Contents   

While we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly
    diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a
    negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector
    may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios
    to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated. Moreover,
    our ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of
    related assets may be limited if other market participants are
    seeking to sell at the same time. In addition, legislative
    proposals that would allow or require modifications to the terms
    of mortgage loans could be enacted. We cannot predict whether
    these proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such
    proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business
    or investments.

Our
    Investments are Reflected Within the Consolidated Financial
    Statements Utilizing Different Accounting Basis and Accordingly
    We May Not Have Recognized Differences, Which May Be
    Significant, Between Cost and Estimated Fair Value in our
    Consolidated Financial Statements   

Our principal investments are in fixed maturity and equity
    securities, trading securities, short-term investments, mortgage
    and consumer loans, policy loans, real estate, real estate joint
    ventures and other limited partnerships and other invested
    assets. The carrying value of such investments is as follows:

Fixed maturity and equity securities are classified as
    available-for-sale, except for trading securities, and are
    reported at their estimated fair value. Unrealized investment
    gains and losses on these securities are recorded as a separate
    component of other comprehensive income (loss), net of
    policyholder related amounts and deferred income taxes.

Trading securities are recorded at estimated fair value with
    subsequent changes in estimated fair value recognized in net
    investment income.

Short-term investments include investments with remaining
    maturities of one year or less, but greater than three months,
    at the time of acquisition and are stated at amortized cost,
    which approximates estimated fair value.

The carrying value of mortgage and consumer loans is stated at
    original cost net of repayments, amortization of premiums,
    accretion of discounts and valuation allowances, except for
    residential mortgage loans held-for-sale accounted for under the
    fair value option which are carried at estimated fair value, as
    determined on a recurring basis and certain commercial and
    residential mortgage loans carried at the lower of cost or
    estimated fair value, as determined on a nonrecurring basis.

Policy loans are stated at unpaid principal balances.

Real estate held-for-investment, including related improvements,
    is stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation.

Real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership
    interests in which we have more than a minor equity interest or
    more than a minor influence over the joint ventures or
    partnership s operations, but where we do not have a
    controlling interest and are not the primary beneficiary, are
    carried using the equity method of accounting. We use the cost
    method of accounting for investments in real estate joint
    ventures and other limited partnership interests in which it has
    a minor equity investment and virtually no influence over the
    joint ventures or the partnership s operations.

Other invested assets consist principally of freestanding
    derivatives with positive estimated fair values and leveraged
    leases. Freestanding derivatives are carried at estimated fair
    value with changes in estimated fair value reflected in income
    for both non-qualifying derivatives and derivatives in fair
    value hedging relationships. Derivatives in cash flow hedging
    relationships are reflected as a separate component of other
    comprehensive income (loss). Leveraged leases are recorded net
    of non-recourse debt.

Investments not carried at estimated fair value in our
    consolidated financial statements   principally,
    mortgage and consumer loans held-for-investment, policy loans,
    real estate, real estate joint ventures, other limited
    partnerships and leveraged leases   may have estimated
    fair values which are substantially higher or lower than the
    carrying value reflected in our consolidated financial
    statements. Each of such asset classes is regularly evaluated
    for impairment under the accounting guidance appropriate to the
    respective asset class.

38

Table of Contents   

Our
    Valuation of Fixed Maturity, Equity and Trading Securities May
    Include Methodologies, Estimations and Assumptions Which Are
    Subject to Differing Interpretations and Could Result in Changes
    to Investment Valuations that May Materially Adversely Affect
    Our Results of Operations or Financial Condition   

Fixed maturity, equity, trading securities and short-term
    investments which are reported at estimated fair value on the
    consolidated balance sheet represent the majority of our total
    cash and invested assets. We have categorized these securities
    into a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority of the
    inputs to the respective valuation technique. The fair value
    hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active
    markets for identical assets or liabilities
    (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable
    inputs (Level 3). An asset or liability s
    classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the
    lowest level of significant input to its valuation.
    SFAS 157 defines the input levels as follows:

Level 1 

Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets
    or liabilities. We define active markets based on average
    trading volume for equity securities. The size of the bid/ask
    spread is used as an indicator of market activity for fixed
    maturity securities.

Level 2 

Quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are
    observable either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs
    include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities other
    than quoted prices in Level 1; quoted prices in markets
    that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can
    be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market
    data for substantially the full term of the assets or
    liabilities.

Level 3 

Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market
    activity and are significant to the fair value of the assets or
    liabilities. Unobservable inputs reflect the reporting
    entity s own assumptions about the assumptions that market
    participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.
    Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial
    instruments whose values are determined using pricing models,
    discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as
    well as instruments for which the determination of fair value
    requires significant management judgment or estimation.

At December 31, 2008, 11%, 80% and 9% of these securities
    represented Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3,
    respectively. The Level 1 securities primarily consist of
    certain U.S. Treasury and agency fixed maturity securities;
    exchange-traded common stock, and certain short-term
    investments. The Level 2 assets include fixed maturity
    securities priced principally through independent pricing
    services using observable inputs. These fixed maturity
    securities include most U.S. Treasury and agency securities
    as well as the majority of U.S. and foreign corporate
    securities, residential mortgage-backed securities, commercial
    mortgage-backed securities, state and political subdivision
    securities, foreign government securities, and asset-backed
    securities. Equity securities classified as Level 2
    primarily consist principally of non-redeemable preferred
    securities and certain equity securities where market quotes are
    available but are not considered actively traded and are priced
    by independent pricing services. Management reviews the
    valuation methodologies used by the independent pricing services
    on an ongoing basis and ensures that any changes to valuation
    methodologies are justified. Level 3 assets include fixed
    maturity securities priced principally through independent
    non-binding broker quotations or market standard valuation
    methodologies using inputs that are not market observable or
    cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable
    market data. This level consists of less liquid fixed maturity
    securities with very limited trading activity or where less
    price transparency exists around the inputs to the valuation
    methodologies including: U.S. and foreign corporate
    securities   including below investment grade private
    placements; residential mortgage-backed securities; and asset
    backed securities   including all of those supported
    by sub-prime mortgage loans. Equity securities classified as
    Level 3 securities consist principally of common stock of
    privately held companies and non-redeemable preferred securities
    where there has been very limited trading activity or where less
    price transparency exists around the inputs to the valuation.
    See Note 24 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for the estimated fair values of these assets and
    liabilities by hierarchy level.

Prices provided by independent pricing services and independent
    non-binding broker quotations can vary widely even for the same
    security.

39

Table of Contents   

The determination of estimated fair values by management in the
    absence of quoted market prices is based on: (i) valuation
    methodologies; (ii) securities we deem to be comparable;
    and (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the
    circumstances. The fair value estimates are made at a specific
    point in time, based on available market information and
    judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of
    the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the
    credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. Factors
    considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate,
    maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund
    requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer, and
    quoted market prices of comparable securities. The use of
    different methodologies and assumptions may have a material
    effect on the estimated fair value amounts.

During periods of market disruption including periods of
    significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening
    credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value
    certain of our securities, for example Alt-A and sub-prime
    mortgage-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed
    securities, if trading becomes less frequent
     and/or 
    market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset
    classes that were in active markets with significant observable
    data that become illiquid due to the current financial
    environment. In such cases, more securities may fall to
    Level 3 and thus require more subjectivity and management
    judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions
    that are less observable or require greater estimation as well
    as valuation methods which are more sophisticated or require
    greater estimation thereby resulting in values which may be
    greater or less than the value at which the investments may be
    ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented
    credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the
    valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated
    financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value
    could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations or financial
    condition.

Some
    of Our Investments Are Relatively Illiquid and Are in Asset
    Classes that Have Been Experiencing Significant Market Valuation
    Fluctuations   

We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity, such as
    privately placed fixed maturity securities; mortgage and
    consumer loans; policy loans and leveraged leases; equity real
    estate, including real estate joint ventures; and other limited
    partnership interests. These asset classes represented 33.7% of
    the carrying value of our total cash and invested assets at
    December 31, 2008. Even some of our very high quality
    assets have been more illiquid as a result of the recent
    challenging market conditions.

If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in
    excess of normal cash requirements or are required to post or
    return collateral in connection with our investment portfolio,
    derivatives transactions or securities lending activities, we
    may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely
    manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would
    have been able to realize, or both.

The reported value of our relatively illiquid types of
    investments, our investments in the asset classes described
    above and, at times, our high quality, generally liquid asset
    classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market
    price for the asset. If we were forced to sell certain of our
    assets in the current market, there can be no assurance that we
    will be able to sell them for the prices at which we have
    recorded them and we may be forced to sell them at significantly
    lower prices.

The
    Determination of the Amount of Allowances and Impairments Taken
    on Our Investments is Highly Subjective and Could Materially
    Impact Our Results of Operations or Financial
    Position   

The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments
    varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic
    evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated
    with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and
    assessments are revised as conditions change and new information
    becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly
    and reflects changes in allowances and impairments in operations
    as such evaluations are revised. There can be no assurance that
    our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments
    taken and allowances reflected in our consolidated financial
    statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be
    taken or allowances provided for in the future. Historical
    trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances.

For example, the cost of our fixed maturity and equity
    securities is adjusted for impairments in value deemed to be
    other-than-temporary in the period in which the determination is
    made. The assessment of whether impairments

40

Table of Contents   

have occurred is based on management s
     case-by-case 
    evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in
    estimated fair value. The review of our fixed maturity and
    equity securities for impairments includes an analysis of the
    total gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities:
    (i) securities where the estimated fair value has declined
    and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%;
    (ii) securities where the estimated fair value has declined
    and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for
    less than six months; and (iii) securities where the
    estimated fair value has declined and remained below cost or
    amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater.

Additionally, our management considers a wide range of factors
    about the security issuer and uses their best judgment in
    evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value
    of the security and in assessing the prospects for near-term
    recovery. Inherent in management s evaluation of the
    security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of
    the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations in
    the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited
    to: (i) the length of time and the extent to which the
    market value has been below cost or amortized cost;
    (ii) the potential for impairments of securities when the
    issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties;
    (iii) the potential for impairments in an entire industry
    sector or sub-sector; (iv) the potential for impairments in
    certain economically depressed geographic locations;
    (v) the potential for impairments of securities where the
    issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a
    catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources;
    (vi) our ability and intent to hold the security for a
    period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its value
    to an amount equal to or greater than cost or amortized cost;
    (vii) unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows on
    mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities; and
    (viii) other subjective factors, including concentrations
    and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies.

Gross
    Unrealized Losses on Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities May be
    Realized or Result in Future Impairments, Resulting in a
    Reduction in Our Net Income   

Fixed maturity and equity securities classified as
    available-for-sale, except trading securities, are reported at
    their estimated fair value. Unrealized gains or losses on
    available-for-sale securities are recognized as a component of
    other comprehensive income (loss) and are, therefore, excluded
    from net income. Our gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity
    and equity securities at December 31, 2008 were
    $29.8 billion. The portion of the $29.8 billion of
    gross unrealized losses for fixed maturity and equity securities
    where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below
    amortized cost or cost by 20% or more for six months or greater
    was $4.0 billion at December 31, 2008. The accumulated
    change in estimated fair value of these available-for-sale
    securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is
    realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the
    decline in estimated fair value is determined to be
    other-than-temporary and an impairment charge is taken. Realized
    losses or impairments may have a material adverse affect on our
    net income in a particular quarterly or annual period.

Changes
    in Market Interest Rates May Significantly Affect Our
    Profitability   

Some of our products, principally traditional whole life
    insurance, fixed annuities and guaranteed investment contracts
    ( GICs ), expose us to the risk that changes in
    interest rates will reduce our  spread,  or the
    difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under
    the contracts in our general account and the rate of return we
    are able to earn on general account investments intended to
    support obligations under the contracts. Our spread is a key
    component of our net income.

As interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be
    forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured
    or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, reducing our
    investment margin. Moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the
    fixed-income securities, commercial mortgages and
    mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio with
    greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates,
    which exacerbates this risk. Lowering interest crediting rates
    can help offset decreases in investment margins on some
    products. However, our ability to lower these rates could be
    limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates
    and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset
    yields. As a result, our spread could decrease or potentially
    become negative. Our expectation for future spreads is an
    important component in the amortization of DAC and VOBA and
    significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate
    amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected
    reporting period. In addition, during periods of declining
    interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be
    relatively more attractive investments to consumers, resulting
    in increased premium payments on products

41

Table of Contents   

with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and
    increased persistency, or a higher percentage of insurance
    policies remaining in force from year to year, during a period
    when our new investments carry lower returns. A decline in
    market interest rates could also reduce our return on
    investments that do not support particular policy obligations.
    Accordingly, declining interest rates may materially adversely
    affect our results of operations, financial position and cash
    flows and significantly reduce our profitability.

The sufficiency of our reserves in Taiwan is highly sensitive to
    interest rates and other related assumptions. This is due to the
    sustained low interest rate environment in Taiwan coupled with
    long-term interest rate guarantees of approximately 6% embedded
    in the life and health contracts sold prior to 2003 and the lack
    of availability of long-duration assets in the Taiwanese capital
    markets to match such long-duration liabilities. The key
    assumptions utilized include that current Taiwan government bond
    yield rates increase from current levels of 1.6% to 2.7% over
    the next ten years, mortality and morbidity levels remain
    consistent with recent experience and that U.S. dollar
    assets make up 35% of total assets backing reserves. Current
    reserve adequacy analysis shows that provisions are adequate;
    however, adverse changes in key assumptions for interest rates,
    exchange rates, and mortality and morbidity levels or lapse
    rates could lead to a need to strengthen reserves and therefore
    for additional capital.

Increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect
    our profitability. In periods of rapidly increasing interest
    rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the
    assets in MetLife s general account with higher yielding
    assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to
    keep interest sensitive products competitive. We, therefore, may
    have to accept a lower spread and, thus, lower profitability or
    face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts
    and related assets. In addition, policy loans, surrenders and
    withdrawals may tend to increase as policyholders seek
    investments with higher perceived returns as interest rates
    rise. This process may result in cash outflows requiring that we
    sell invested assets at a time when the prices of those assets
    are adversely affected by the increase in market interest rates,
    which may result in realized investment losses. Unanticipated
    withdrawals and terminations may cause us to accelerate the
    amortization of DAC and VOBA, which would increase our current
    expenses and reduce net income. An increase in market interest
    rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of
    our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the
    estimated fair values of the fixed income securities that
    comprise a substantial portion of our investment portfolio.

Consolidation
    of Distributors of Insurance Products May Adversely Affect the
    Insurance Industry and the Profitability of Our
    Business   

The insurance industry distributes many of its individual
    products through other financial institutions such as banks and
    broker-dealers. As capital, credit and equity markets continue
    to experience volatility, bank and broker-dealer consolidation
    activity may increase and negatively impact the industry s
    sales, and such consolidation could increase competition for
    access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses
    and impair our ability to market insurance products to our
    current customer base or to expand our customer base.

Industry
    Trends Could Adversely Affect the Profitability of Our
    Businesses   

Our business segments continue to be influenced by a variety of
    trends that affect the insurance industry, including intense
    competition with respect to product features, price,
    distribution capability, customer service and information
    technology. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Industry Trends.  The impact on our business and on the
    life insurance industry generally of the volatility and
    instability of the financial markets is difficult to predict,
    and our business plans, financial condition and results of
    operations may be negatively impacted or affected in other
    unexpected ways. In addition, the life insurance industry is
    subject to state regulation, and, as complex products are
    introduced, regulators may refine capital requirements and
    introduce new reserving standards. Furthermore, regulators have
    undertaken market and sales practices reviews of several markets
    or products, including equity-indexed annuities, variable
    annuities and group products. The current market environment may
    also lead to changes in regulation that may benefit or
    disadvantage us relative to some of our competitors. See
       Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our
    Market Share and Profitability  and
     Business   Competition. 

42

Table of Contents   

A
    Decline in Equity Markets or an Increase in Volatility in Equity
    Markets May Adversely Affect Sales of Our Investment Products
    and Our Profitability   

Significant downturns and volatility in equity markets could
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
    results of operations in three principal ways.

First, equity market downturns and volatility may discourage
    purchases of separate account products, such as variable
    annuities and variable life insurance that have underlying
    mutual funds with returns linked to the performance of the
    equity markets and may cause some of our existing customers to
    withdraw cash values or reduce investments in those products.

Second, downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a
    material adverse effect on the revenues and returns from our
    savings and investment products and services. Because these
    products and services depend on fees related primarily to the
    value of assets under management, a decline in the equity
    markets could reduce our revenues by reducing the value of the
    investment assets we manage. The retail annuity business in
    particular is highly sensitive to equity markets, and a
    sustained weakness in the equity markets will decrease revenues
    and earnings in variable annuity products.

Third, we provide certain guarantees within some of our products
    that protect policyholders against significant downturns in the
    equity markets. For example, we offer variable annuity products
    with guaranteed features, such as death benefits, withdrawal
    benefits, and minimum accumulation and income benefits. In
    volatile or declining equity market conditions, we may need to
    increase liabilities for future policy benefits and policyholder
    account balances, negatively affecting net income.

If Our
    Business Does Not Perform Well, We May Be Required to Recognize
    an Impairment of Our Goodwill or Other Long-Lived Assets or to
    Establish a Valuation Allowance Against the Deferred Income Tax
    Asset, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations or
    Financial Condition   

Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire
    subsidiaries and other businesses over the estimated fair value
    of their net assets at the date of acquisition. We test goodwill
    at least annually for impairment. Impairment testing is
    performed based upon estimates of the fair value of the
     reporting unit  to which the goodwill relates. The
    reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level
    below that operating segment if discrete financial information
    is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level.
    The estimated fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by
    the performance of the business. The performance of our
    businesses may be adversely impacted by prolonged market
    declines. If it is determined that the goodwill has been
    impaired, MetLife must write down the goodwill by the amount of
    the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. Such
    write downs could have a material adverse effect on our results
    of operations or financial position. See
       Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates  
    Goodwill. 

Long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate, also
    require impairment testing to determine whether changes in
    circumstances indicate that MetLife will be unable to recover
    the carrying amount of the asset group through future operations
    of that asset group or market conditions that will impact the
    value of those assets. Such write downs could have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations or financial
    position.

Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences
    between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities.
    Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to
    determine if they are realizable. Factors in management s
    determination include the performance of the business including
    the ability to generate future taxable income. If based on
    available information, it is more likely than not that the
    deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation
    allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net
    income. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations or financial position.

Further or continued deterioration of financial market
    conditions could result in a decrease in the expected future
    earnings of our reporting units, which could lead to an
    impairment of some or all of the goodwill associated with them
    in future periods. Such deterioration could also result in the
    impairment of long-lived assets and the establishment of a
    valuation allowance on our deferred income tax assets.

43

Table of Contents   

Competitive
    Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and
    Profitability   

Our business segments are subject to intense competition. We
    believe that this competition is based on a number of factors,
    including service, product features, scale, price, financial
    strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings,
     e-business 
    capabilities and name recognition. We compete with a large
    number of other insurers, as well as non-insurance financial
    services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset
    managers, for individual consumers, employers and other group
    customers and agents and other distributors of insurance and
    investment products. Some of these companies offer a broader
    array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with
    respect to other insurers, have higher claims paying ability
    ratings. Some may also have greater financial resources with
    which to compete. National banks, which may sell annuity
    products of life insurers in some circumstances, also have
    pre-existing customer bases for financial services products.

Many of our insurance products, particularly those offered by
    our Institutional segment, are underwritten annually, and,
    accordingly, there is a risk that group purchasers may be able
    to obtain more favorable terms from competitors rather than
    renewing coverage with us. The effect of competition may, as a
    result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other
    products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future.

In addition, the investment management and securities brokerage
    businesses have relatively few barriers to entry and continually
    attract new entrants. Many of our competitors in these
    businesses offer a broader array of investment products and
    services and are better known than we are as sellers of
    annuities and other investment products. See
     Business   Competition. 

Finally, the choices made by the U.S. Treasury in the
    administration of EESA and in its distribution of amounts
    available thereunder could have the effect of supporting some
    parts of the financial system more than others. See
        There Can be No Assurance that Actions
    of the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve Bank of New York
    and Other Governmental and Regulatory Bodies for the Purpose of
    Stabilizing the Financial Markets Will Achieve the Intended
    Effect. 

We May
    be Unable to Attract and Retain Sales Representatives for Our
    Products   

We must attract and retain productive sales representatives to
    sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. Strong
    competition exists among insurers for sales representatives with
    demonstrated ability. In addition, there is competition for
    representatives with other types of financial services firms,
    such as independent broker-dealers. We compete with other
    insurers for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our
    financial position, support services and compensation and
    product features. We continue to undertake several initiatives
    to grow our career agency force while continuing to enhance the
    efficiency and production of our existing sales force. We cannot
    provide assurance that these initiatives will succeed in
    attracting and retaining new agents. Sales of individual
    insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of
    operations and financial condition could be materially adversely
    affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining
    agents. See  Business   Competition. 

Differences
    Between Actual Claims Experience and Underwriting and Reserving
    Assumptions May Adversely Affect Our Financial
    Results   

Our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our
    actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we
    use in setting prices for our products and establishing
    liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. Our
    liabilities for future policy benefits and claims are
    established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will
    need to pay for future benefits and claims. For life insurance
    and annuity products, we calculate these liabilities based on
    many assumptions and estimates, including estimated premiums to
    be received over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of
    the event covered by the insurance policy, the amount of
    benefits or claims to be paid and the investment returns on the
    assets we purchase with the premiums we receive. We establish
    liabilities for property and casualty claims and benefits based
    on assumptions and estimates of damages and liabilities
    incurred. To the extent that actual claims experience is less
    favorable than the underlying assumptions we used in
    establishing such liabilities, we could be required to increase
    our liabilities.

Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of
    uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for
    future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely
    the amounts which we will

44

Table of Contents   

ultimately pay to settle our liabilities. Such amounts may vary
    from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may
    not occur until well into the future. We evaluate our
    liabilities periodically based on changes in the assumptions
    used to establish the liabilities, as well as our actual
    experience. We charge or credit changes in our liabilities to
    expenses in the period the liabilities are established or
    re-estimated. If the liabilities originally established for
    future benefit payments prove inadequate, we must increase them.
    Such increases could affect earnings negatively and have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
    and financial condition.

Our
    Risk Management Policies and Procedures May Leave Us Exposed to
    Unidentified or Unanticipated Risk, Which Could Negatively
    Affect Our Business   

Management of risk requires, among other things, policies and
    procedures to record properly and verify a large number of
    transactions and events. We have devoted significant resources
    to develop our risk management policies and procedures and
    expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our
    policies and procedures may not be comprehensive. Many of our
    methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use
    of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on
    historical models. As a result, these methods may not fully
    predict future exposures, which can be significantly greater
    than our historical measures indicate. Other risk management
    methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding
    markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that
    is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. This
    information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or
    properly evaluated. See  Quantitative and Qualitative
    Disclosures About Market Risk. 

Change
    in Our Discount Rate, Expected Rate of Return and Expected
    Compensation Increase Assumptions for Our Pension and Other
    Postretirement Benefit Plans May Result in Increased Expenses
    and Reduce Our Profitability   

We determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan
    costs based on our best estimates of future plan experience.
    These assumptions are reviewed regularly and include discount
    rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and expected
    increases in compensation levels and expected medical inflation.
    Changes in these assumptions may result in increased expenses
    and reduce our profitability. See  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefit
    Plans  and Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for details on how changes in these
    assumptions would affect plan costs.

Catastrophes
    May Adversely Impact Liabilities for Policyholder Claims and
    Reinsurance Availability   

Our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of
    catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that
    causes a large number of deaths. Significant influenza pandemics
    have occurred three times in the last century, but neither the
    likelihood, timing, nor the severity of a future pandemic can be
    predicted. The effectiveness of external parties, including
    governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating
    the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material
    impact on the losses experienced by us. In our group insurance
    operations, a localized event that affects the workplace of one
    or more of our group insurance customers could cause a
    significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. These
    events could cause a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could
    also materially and adversely affect our financial condition.

Our Auto   Home business has experienced, and will
    likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may
    have a material adverse impact on the business, results of
    operations and financial condition of the Auto   Home
    segment. Although Auto   Home makes every effort to
    manage our exposure to catastrophic risks through volatility
    management and reinsurance programs, these efforts do not
    eliminate all risk. Catastrophes can be caused by various
    events, including pandemics, hurricanes, windstorms,
    earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather
    (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards),
    fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks.
    Historically, substantially all of our catastrophe-related
    claims have related to homeowners coverages. However,
    catastrophes may also affect other Auto   Home
    coverages. Due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence,
    timing and severity of catastrophes. In addition, changing
    climate conditions, primarily rising global temperatures, may be
    increasing, or may in the future increase, the frequency and
    severity of natural catastrophes such as hurricanes.

45

Table of Contents   

Hurricanes and earthquakes are of particular note for our
    homeowners coverages. Areas of major hurricane exposure include
    coastal sections of the northeastern United States (including
    lower New York, Connecticut, Rhode Island and Massachusetts),
    the Gulf Coast (including Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana and
    Texas) and Florida. We also have some earthquake exposure,
    primarily along the New Madrid fault line in the central United
    States and in the Pacific Northwest.

The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both
    the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the
    event and the severity of the event. Most catastrophes are
    restricted to small geographic areas; however, pandemics,
    hurricanes, earthquakes and man-made catastrophes may produce
    significant damage in larger areas, especially those that are
    heavily populated. Claims resulting from natural or man-made
    catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our
    financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could
    materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial
    condition. Also, catastrophic events could harm the financial
    condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the probability
    of default on reinsurance recoveries. Our ability to write new
    business could also be affected. It is possible that increases
    in the value, caused by the effects of inflation or other
    factors, and geographic concentration of insured property, could
    increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the
    future.

Most of the jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries
    are admitted to transact business require life and property and
    casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to
    participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay
    contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued
    by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These associations
    levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member
    insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate
    share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of
    business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is
    engaged. In addition, certain states have government owned or
    controlled organizations providing life and property and
    casualty insurance to their citizens. The activities of such
    organizations could also place additional stress on the adequacy
    of guaranty fund assessments. Many of these organizations also
    have the power to levy assessments similar to those of the
    guaranty associations described above. Some states permit member
    insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial
    premium tax offsets. See  Business  
    Regulation   Insurance Regulation   Guaranty
    Associations and Similar Arrangements. 

While in the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied
    against MetLife have not been material, it is possible that a
    large catastrophic event could render such guaranty funds
    inadequate and we may be called upon to contribute additional
    amounts, which may have a material impact on our financial
    condition or results of operations in a particular period. We
    have established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that
    we consider adequate for assessments with respect to insurers
    that are currently subject to insolvency proceedings, but
    additional liabilities may be necessary. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Insolvency
    Assessments. 

Consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we
    establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only
    after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. We
    cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established will
    be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. From time to
    time, states have passed legislation that has the effect of
    limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as
    legislation restricting an insurer s ability to withdraw
    from catastrophe-prone areas. While we attempt to limit our
    exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions imposed
    by insurance regulatory authorities, a catastrophic event or
    multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition.

Our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our
    property and casualty and life insurance businesses depends in
    part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may
    not be available at commercially acceptable rates in the future.
    See    Reinsurance May Not Be Available,
    Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us Against Losses. 

A
    Downgrade or a Potential Downgrade in Our Financial Strength or
    Credit Ratings Could Result in a Loss of Business and Materially
    Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   

Financial strength ratings, which various Nationally Recognized
    Statistical Rating Organizations ( NRSROs ) publish as
    indicators of an insurance company s ability to meet
    contractholder and policyholder

46

Table of Contents   

obligations, are important to maintaining public confidence in
    our products, our ability to market our products and our
    competitive position. See  Business   Company
    Ratings   Insurer Financial Strength Ratings. 

Downgrades in our financial strength ratings could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations in many ways, including:

reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other
    investment products;

adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and
    independent sales intermediaries;

materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders
    and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders;

requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and
    services to remain competitive; and

adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at
    reasonable prices or at all.

In addition to the financial strength ratings of our insurance
    subsidiaries, various NRSROs also publish credit ratings for
    MetLife, Inc. and several of its subsidiaries. Credit ratings
    are indicators of a debt issuer s ability to meet the terms
    of debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors
    in our overall funding profile and ability to access certain
    types of liquidity. See  Business   Company
    Ratings   Credit Ratings.  Downgrades in our
    credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition and results of operations in many ways,
    including adversely limiting our access to capital markets,
    potentially increasing the cost of debt, and requiring us to
    post collateral. A two-notch decrease in the financial strength
    ratings of our insurance company subsidiaries would require us
    to post less than $200 million of collateral in connection
    with derivative collateral arrangements, to which we are a party
    and would have allowed holders of $500 million aggregate
    account value of our funding agreements to terminate such
    funding agreements on 90 days  notice.

In view of the difficulties experienced recently by many
    financial institutions, including our competitors in the
    insurance industry, we believe it is possible that the NRSROs
    will heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to such
    institutions, will increase the frequency and scope of their
    credit reviews, will request additional information from the
    companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and
    other requirements employed in the NRSRO models for maintenance
    of certain ratings levels. Rating agencies use an  outlook
    statement  of  positive,   stable, 
     negative  or  developing  to indicate a
    medium- or long-term trend in credit fundamentals which, if
    continued, may lead to a ratings change. A rating may have a
     stable  outlook to indicate that the rating is not
    expected to change; however, a  stable  rating does
    not preclude a rating agency from changing a rating at any time,
    without notice. Certain rating agencies have recently revised
    their outlook on the U.S. life insurance sector, as well as
    MetLife, Inc. s and certain of its subsidiaries 
    insurer financial strength and credit ratings, from
     stable  to  negative.  Furthermore, the
    insurer financial strength and credit ratings of MetLife, Inc.
    and certain of its subsidiaries have also been recently
    downgraded. See  Business   Company
    Ratings   Rating Actions. 

We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what
    actions we may take in response to the actions of rating
    agencies, which could adversely affect our business. As with
    other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings
    could be downgraded at any time and without any notice by any
    NRSRO.

An
    Inability to Access Our Credit Facilities Could Result in a
    Reduction in Our Liquidity and Lead to Downgrades in Our Credit
    and Financial Strength Ratings   

We have a $2.85 billion five-year revolving credit facility
    that matures in June 2012, as well as other facilities which we
    enter into in the ordinary course of business. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and
    Capital Resources   Liquidity and Capital
    Sources   Credit Facilities  and
       Committed Facilities. 

We rely on our credit facilities as a potential source of
    liquidity. The availability of these facilities could be
    critical to our credit and financial strength ratings and our
    ability to meet our obligations as they come due, particularly
    in the current market when alternative sources of credit are
    tight. The credit facilities contain certain administrative,
    reporting, legal and financial covenants. We must comply with
    certain covenants under our credit

47

Table of Contents   

facilities (including the $2.85 billion five-year revolving
    credit facility) that require us to maintain a specified minimum
    consolidated net worth.

Our right to make borrowings under these facilities is subject
    to the fulfillment of certain important conditions, including
    our compliance with all covenants, and our ability to borrow is
    also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the
    lenders that are parties to the facilities to provide funds. Our
    failure to comply with the covenants in the credit facilities or
    fulfill the conditions to borrowings, or the failure of lenders
    to fund their lending commitments (whether due to insolvency,
    illiquidity or other reasons) in the amounts provided for under
    the terms of the facilities, would restrict our ability to
    access these credit facilities when needed and, consequently,
    could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition
    and results of operations.

Guarantees
    Within Certain of Our Products that Protect Policyholders
    Against Significant Downturns in Equity Markets May Decrease Our
    Earnings, Increase the Volatility of Our Results if Hedging or
    Risk Management Strategies Prove Ineffective, Result in Higher
    Hedging Costs, Expose Us to Increased Counterparty Risk and
    Result in Our Own Credit Exposure   

Certain of our variable annuity products include guaranteed
    benefit riders. These include guaranteed death benefits,
    guaranteed withdrawal benefits, lifetime withdrawal guarantees,
    guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits, and guaranteed minimum
    income benefit riders. Periods of significant and sustained
    downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or
    reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the
    valuation of the future policy benefit or policyholder account
    balance liabilities associated with such products, resulting in
    a reduction to net income. We use reinsurance in combination
    with derivative instruments to mitigate the liability exposure
    and the volatility of net income associated with these
    liabilities, and while we believe that these and other actions
    have mitigated the risks related to these benefits, we remain
    liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that reinsurers
    or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. In
    addition, we are subject to the risk that hedging and other
    management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated
    policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market
    events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk
    management techniques employed. These, individually or
    collectively, may have a material adverse effect on net income,
    financial condition or liquidity. We are also subject to the
    risk that the cost of hedging these guaranteed minimum benefits
    increases, resulting in a reduction to net income. We also must
    consider our own credit standing, which is not hedged, in the
    valuation of certain of these liabilities. A decrease in our own
    credit spread could cause the value of these liabilities to
    increase, resulting in a reduction to net income.

If Our
    Business Does Not Perform Well or if Actual Experience Versus
    Estimates Used in Valuing and Amortizing DAC and VOBA Vary
    Significantly, We May Be Required to Accelerate the Amortization
    and/or Impair the DAC and VOBA Which Could Adversely Affect Our
    Results of Operations or Financial Condition   

We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and
    renewal business. Those costs that vary with and are primarily
    related to the production of new and renewal business are
    deferred and referred to as DAC. The recovery of DAC is
    dependent upon the future profitability of the related business.
    The amount of future profit or margin is dependent principally
    on investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to
    policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest
    crediting rates, dividends paid to policyholders, expenses to
    administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance
    counterparties and certain economic variables, such as
    inflation. Of these factors, we anticipate that investment
    returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of
    such costs. The aforementioned factors enter into
    management s estimates of gross profits or margins, which
    generally are used to amortize such costs. If the estimates of
    gross profits or margins were overstated, then the amortization
    of such costs would be accelerated in the period the actual
    experience is known and would result in a charge to income.
    Significant or sustained equity market declines could result in
    an acceleration of amortization of the DAC related to variable
    annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a
    charge to income. Such adjustments could have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations or financial condition.

VOBA reflects the estimated fair value of in-force contracts in
    a life insurance company acquisition and represents the portion
    of the purchase price that is allocated to the value of the
    right to receive future cash flows from the insurance and
    annuity contracts in-force at the acquisition date. VOBA is
    based on actuarially determined

48

Table of Contents   

projections. Actual experience may vary from the projections.
    Revisions to estimates result in changes to the amounts expensed
    in the reporting period in which the revisions are made and
    could result in an impairment and a charge to income. Also, as
    VOBA is amortized similarly to DAC, an acceleration of the
    amortization of VOBA would occur if the estimates of gross
    profits or margins were overstated. Accordingly, the
    amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period in
    which the actual experience is known and would result in a
    charge to net income. Significant or sustained equity market
    declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of the
    VOBA related to variable annuity and variable universal life
    contracts, resulting in a charge to income. Such adjustments
    could have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations or financial condition.

See    Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates   Deferred
    Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired 
    for further consideration of DAC and VOBA and the impact of
    current market events during 2008.

Defaults,
    Downgrades or Other Events Impairing the Value of Our Fixed
    Maturity Securities Portfolio May Reduce Our
    Earnings   

We are subject to the risk that the issuers, or guarantors, of
    fixed maturity securities we own may default on principal and
    interest payments they owe us. We are also subject to the risk
    that the underlying collateral within loan-backed securities,
    including mortgage-backed securities, may default on principal
    and interest payments causing an adverse change in cash flows
    paid to our investment. At December 31, 2008, the fixed
    maturity securities of $188.3 billion in our investment
    portfolio represented 58.4% of our total cash and invested
    assets. The occurrence of a major economic downturn (such as the
    current downturn in the economy), acts of corporate malfeasance,
    widening risk spreads, or other events that adversely affect the
    issuers, guarantors or underlying collateral of these securities
    could cause the value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio
    and our net income to decline and the default rate of the fixed
    maturity securities in our investment portfolio to increase. A
    ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular
    securities, or similar trends that could worsen the credit
    quality of issuers, such as the corporate issuers of securities
    in our investment portfolio, could also have a similar effect.
    With economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or
    guarantors could be adversely affected. Similarly, a ratings
    downgrade affecting a loan-backed security we hold could
    indicate the credit quality of that security has deteriorated.
    Any event reducing the value of these securities other than on a
    temporary basis could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations and financial condition. Levels
    of write down or impairment are impacted by our assessment of
    the intent and ability to hold securities which have declined in
    value until recovery. If we determine to reposition or realign
    portions of the portfolio so as not to hold certain securities
    in an unrealized loss position to recovery, then we will incur
    an other than temporary impairment charge in the period that the
    decision was made not to hold the security to recovery. In
    addition, in January, 2009, Moody s revised its loss
    projections for U.S. Alt-A residential mortgage-backed
    securities (RMBS), and it is anticipated that Moody s will
    be downgrading virtually all 2006 and 2007 Alt-A securities to
    below investment grade, which will increase the percentage of
    our portfolio that will be rated below investment grade.

Fluctuations
    in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates and Foreign Securities
    Markets Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability   

We are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign
    currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar resulting
    from our holdings of
     non-U.S. dollar 
    denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries and
    net income from foreign operations. These risks relate to
    potential decreases in value and income resulting from a
    strengthening or weakening in foreign exchange rates versus the
    U.S. dollar. In general, the weakening of foreign
    currencies versus the U.S. dollar will adversely affect the
    value of our
     non-U.S. dollar 
    denominated investments and our investments in foreign
    subsidiaries. Although we use foreign currency swaps and forward
    contracts to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk, we
    cannot provide assurance that these methods will be effective or
    that our counterparties will perform their obligations. See
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk. 

From time to time, various emerging market countries have
    experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including
    significant devaluations of their currencies. Our exposure to
    foreign exchange rate risk is exacerbated by our investments in
    emerging markets.

49

Table of Contents   

We have matched substantially all of our foreign currency
    liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with assets denominated
    in their respective foreign currency, which limits the effect of
    currency exchange rate fluctuation on local operating results;
    however, fluctuations in such rates affect the translation of
    these results into our consolidated financial statements.
    Although we take certain actions to address this risk, foreign
    currency exchange rate fluctuation could materially adversely
    affect our reported results due to unhedged positions or the
    failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the
    foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. See
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk. 

Our
    International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and
    Other Risks that Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our
    Profitability   

Our international operations face political, legal, operational
    and other risks that we do not face in our domestic operations.
    We face the risk of discriminatory regulation, nationalization
    or expropriation of assets, price controls and exchange controls
    or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds
    from these operations out of the countries in which they operate
    or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or
    other currencies. Some of our foreign insurance operations are,
    and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where
    these risks are heightened. See  Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.  In addition, we
    rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter
    labor problems resulting from workers  associations and
    trade unions in some countries. In Japan, China and India we
    operate with local business partners with the resulting risk of
    managing partner relationships to the business objectives. If
    our business model is not successful in a particular country, we
    may lose all or most of our investment in building and training
    the sales force in that country.

We are currently planning to expand our international operations
    in markets where we operate and in selected new markets. This
    may require considerable management time, as well as
     start-up 
    expenses for market development before any significant revenues
    and earnings are generated. Operations in new foreign markets
    may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in
    existing markets may be affected by local economic and market
    conditions. Therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not
    achieve expected operating margins and our results of operations
    may be negatively impacted.

In recent years, the operating environment in Argentina has been
    very challenging. In Argentina, we are principally engaged in
    the pension business. In December 2008, the Argentine government
    nationalized private pensions and seized the pension funds 
    investments, eliminating the private pensions business in
    Argentina. As a result, we will experience a reduction in the
    operation s future revenues and cash flows. The Argentine
    government now controls all assets which previously were managed
    by our Argentine pension operations. Further governmental or
    legal actions related to our operations in Argentina could
    negatively impact our operations in Argentina and result in
    future losses.

See also    Changes in Market Interest Rates May
    Significantly Affect Our Profitability  regarding the
    impact of low interest rates on our Taiwanese operations.

Reinsurance
    May Not Be Available, Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us
    Against Losses   

As part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase
    reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various
    business segments. See  Business   Reinsurance
    Activity.  While reinsurance agreements generally bind the
    reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally
    fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine
    the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new
    business. In certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for
    business already reinsured may also increase. Any decrease in
    the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any
    increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in
    the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. Accordingly, we
    may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or
    may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable
    terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future
    business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect
    to those policies we issue.

50

Table of Contents   

If the
    Counterparties to Our Reinsurance or Indemnification
    Arrangements or to the Derivative Instruments We Use to Hedge
    Our Business Risks Default or Fail to Perform, We May Be Exposed
    to Risks We Had Sought to Mitigate, Which Could Materially
    Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   

We use reinsurance, indemnification and derivative instruments
    to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. In general,
    reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our
    policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us.
    Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers
    and indemnitors. We cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers
    will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that
    indemnitors will honor their obligations now or in the future or
    that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. A
    reinsurer s or indemnitor s insolvency, inability or
    unwillingness to make payments under the terms of reinsurance
    agreements or indemnity agreements with us could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
    operations.

In addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various
    business risks. We enter into a variety of derivative
    instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit
    default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations  
    Investments.  If our counterparties fail or refuse to honor
    their obligations under these derivative instruments, our hedges
    of the related risk will be ineffective. This is a more
    pronounced risk to us in view of the recent stresses suffered by
    financial institutions. Such failure could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
    operations.

Our
    Insurance Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in
    Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth   

Our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of
    insurance and other laws and regulations. See
     Business   Regulation   Insurance
    Regulation.  State insurance laws regulate most aspects of
    our U.S. insurance businesses, and our insurance
    subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the
    states in which they are domiciled and the states in which they
    are licensed. Our
     non-U.S. insurance 
    operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory
    authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled and
    operate.

State laws in the United States grant insurance regulatory
    authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among
    other things:

licensing companies and agents to transact business;

calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with
    statutory requirements;

mandating certain insurance benefits;

regulating certain premium rates;

reviewing and approving policy forms;

regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through
    the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices,
    distribution arrangements and payment of inducements;

regulating advertising;

protecting privacy;

establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and
    solvency standards;

fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and
    minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance
    policies and annuity contracts;

approving changes in control of insurance companies;

restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions
    between affiliates; and

regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments.

51

Table of Contents   

State insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess
    insurance companies doing business in their state for funds to
    help pay the obligations of insolvent insurance companies to
    policyholders and claimants. Because the amount and timing of an
    assessment is beyond our control, the liabilities that we have
    currently established for these potential liabilities may not be
    adequate. See  Business   Regulation  
    Insurance Regulation   Guaranty Associations and
    Similar Arrangements. 

State insurance regulators and the NAIC regularly re-examine
    existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies
    and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in
    interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the
    consumer at the expense of the insurer and, thus, could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.

The NAIC and several states  legislatures have considered
    the need for regulations
     and/or  laws
    to address agent or broker practices that have been the focus of
    investigations of broker compensation in the State of New York
    and in other jurisdictions. The NAIC adopted a Compensation
    Disclosure Amendment to its Producers Licensing Model Act which,
    if adopted by the states, would require disclosure by agents or
    brokers to customers that insurers will compensate such agents
    or brokers for the placement of insurance and documented
    acknowledgement of this arrangement in cases where the customer
    also compensates the agent or broker. Several states have
    enacted laws similar to the NAIC amendment. We cannot predict
    how many states may promulgate the NAIC amendment or alternative
    regulations or the extent to which these regulations may have a
    material adverse impact on our business.

Currently, the U.S. federal government does not directly
    regulate the business of insurance. However, federal legislation
    and administrative policies in several areas can significantly
    and adversely affect insurance companies. These areas include
    financial services regulation, securities regulation, pension
    regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In
    addition, various forms of direct federal regulation of
    insurance have been proposed. In view of recent events involving
    certain financial institutions and the financial markets, it is
    possible that the U.S. federal government will heighten its
    oversight of insurers such as us, including possibly through a
    federal system of insurance regulation
     and/or  that
    the oversight responsibilities and mandates of existing or newly
    created regulatory bodies could change. We cannot predict
    whether these or other proposals will be adopted, or what
    impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could
    have on our business, financial condition or results of
    operations.

Our international operations are subject to regulation in the
    jurisdictions in which they operate, which in many ways is
    similar to that of the state regulation outlined above. Many of
    our customers and independent sales intermediaries also operate
    in regulated environments. Changes in the regulations that
    affect their operations also may affect our business
    relationships with them and their ability to purchase or
    distribute our products. Accordingly, these changes could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations. See    Our International
    Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks
    that Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our
    Profitability. 

Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time
    consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and
    regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect
    compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.

From time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations
    or audits of MetLife, Inc. s subsidiaries that could, if
    determined adversely, have a material impact on us. We cannot
    predict whether or when regulatory actions may be taken that
    could adversely affect our operations. In addition, the
    interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and
    statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in
    areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements.

We are also subject to other regulations, including banking
    regulations, and may in the future become subject to additional
    regulations. See  Business   Regulation. 

52

Table of Contents   

Litigation
    and Regulatory Investigations Are Increasingly Common in Our
    Businesses and May Result in Significant Financial Losses and
    Harm to Our Reputation   

We face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory
    investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating
    our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. Our
    pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings
    specific to us and others generally applicable to business
    practices in the industries in which we operate. In connection
    with our insurance operations, plaintiffs  lawyers may
    bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits
    alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or
    underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product
    design, disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits
    and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers.
    Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may
    seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and
    treble damages, and the damages claimed and the amount of any
    probable and estimable liability, if any, may remain unknown for
    substantial periods of time. See  Legal Proceedings 
    and Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation
    matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular
    points in time may be inherently impossible to ascertain with
    any degree of certainty. Inherent uncertainties can include how
    fact finders will view individually and in their totality
    documentary evidence, the credibility and effectiveness of
    witnesses  testimony, and how trial and appellate courts
    will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence
    presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal.
    Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of
    how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the
    relevant evidence and applicable law.

On a quarterly and annual basis, we review relevant information
    with respect to litigation and contingencies to be reflected in
    our consolidated financial statements. The review includes
    senior legal and financial personnel. Unless stated elsewhere
    herein, estimates of possible losses or ranges of loss for
    particular matters cannot in the ordinary course be made with a
    reasonable degree of certainty. See  Legal
    Proceedings  and Note 16 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements. Liabilities are established
    when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount
    of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities have been
    established for a number of matters noted in  Legal
    Proceedings  and Note 16 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements. It is possible that some of
    the matters could require us to pay damages or make other
    expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that could not be
    estimated at December 31, 2008.

MLIC and MetLife, Inc. have been named as defendants in several
    lawsuits brought in connection with MLIC s demutualization
    in 2000. Although most of these lawsuits have been dismissed,
    two have been certified as nationwide class action lawsuits.
    MLIC and its affiliates also are currently defendants in
    numerous lawsuits including class action lawsuits, alleging
    improper marketing or sales of individual life insurance
    policies, annuities, mutual funds or other products.

In addition, MLIC is a defendant in a large number of lawsuits
    seeking compensatory and punitive damages for personal injuries
    allegedly caused by exposure to asbestos or asbestos-containing
    products. These lawsuits principally have focused on allegations
    with respect to certain research, publication and other
    activities of one or more of MLIC s employees during the
    period from the 1920 s through approximately the
    1950 s and have alleged that MLIC learned or should have
    learned of certain health risks posed by asbestos and, among
    other things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those
    health risks. Additional litigation relating to these matters
    may be commenced in the future. The ability of MLIC to estimate
    its ultimate asbestos exposure is subject to considerable
    uncertainty, and the conditions impacting its liability can be
    dynamic and subject to change. The availability of reliable data
    is limited and it is difficult to predict with any certainty the
    numerous variables that can affect liability estimates,
    including the number of future claims, the cost to resolve
    claims, the disease mix and severity of disease in pending and
    future claims, the impact of the number of new claims filed in a
    particular jurisdiction and variations in the law in the
    jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible impact of
    tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to allow
    plaintiffs to pursue claims against MLIC when exposure took
    place after the dangers of asbestos exposure were well known,
    and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their
    amounts. The number of asbestos cases that may be brought or the
    aggregate amount of any liability that MLIC may incur, and the
    total amount paid in settlements in any given year are uncertain
    and may vary significantly from year to year. Accordingly, it is
    reasonably possible that our total exposure to asbestos claims
    may be materially greater than

53

Table of Contents   

the liability recorded by us in our consolidated financial
    statements and that future charges to income may be necessary.
    The potential future charges could be material in the particular
    quarterly or annual periods in which they are recorded.

We are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as
    information requests, subpoenas and books and record
    examinations, from state and federal regulators and other
    authorities. A substantial legal liability or a significant
    regulatory action against us could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations. Moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in the
    litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer
    significant reputational harm, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations, including our ability to attract new customers,
    retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees.
    Regulatory inquiries and litigation may cause volatility in the
    price of stocks of companies in our industry.

We cannot give assurance that current claims, litigation,
    unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and
    other proceedings against us will not have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition or results of
    operations. It is also possible that related or unrelated
    claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion,
    investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future,
    and we could become subject to further investigations and have
    lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. In
    addition, increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting
    investigations or proceedings could result in new legal actions
    and precedents and industry-wide regulations that could
    adversely affect our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.

Changes
    in Accounting Standards Issued by the Financial Accounting
    Standards Board or Other Standard-Setting Bodies May Adversely
    Affect Our Financial Statements   

Our financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP,
    which is periodically revised
     and/or 
    expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to
    adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized
    authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting
    Standards Board. Market conditions have prompted accounting
    standard setters to expose new guidance which further interprets
    or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to
    financial instruments, structures or transactions as well as to
    issue new standards expanding disclosures. The impact of
    accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet
    implemented is disclosed in our annual and quarterly reports on
     Form 10-K 
    and
     Form 10-Q. 
    An assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such
    proposals are subject to change through the exposure process
    and, therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot
    be meaningfully assessed. It is possible that future accounting
    standards we are required to adopt could change the current
    accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial
    statements and that such changes could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Further, the federal government, under the EESA, conducted an
    investigation of fair value accounting during the fourth quarter
    of 2008 and has granted the SEC the authority to suspend fair
    value accounting for any registrant or group of registrants at
    its discretion. The impact of such actions on registrants who
    apply fair value accounting cannot be readily determined at this
    time; however, actions taken by the federal government could
    have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and
    results of operations of companies, including ours, that apply
    fair value accounting.

Changes
    in U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations May
    Affect Our Operations and Our Profitability   

Federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to
    insurance products that are also  securities, 
    including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance
    policies. As a result, some of MetLife, Inc. s subsidiaries
    and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance
    contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under
    these securities laws. These subsidiaries issue variable annuity
    contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate
    accounts that are registered with the SEC as investment
    companies under the Investment Company Act. Each registered
    separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of
    which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is itself a
    registered investment company under the Investment Company Act.
    In addition, the variable annuity contracts and variable life
    insurance policies issued by the separate accounts are
    registered with the SEC under the Securities Act. Other
    subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as

54

Table of Contents   

broker-dealers under the Exchange Act, and are members of, and
    subject to, regulation by FINRA. Further, some of our
    subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers with the SEC
    under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and are also
    registered as investment advisers in various states, as
    applicable.

Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily
    intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to
    protect investors in the securities markets, as well as protect
    investment advisory or brokerage clients. These laws and
    regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking
    and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict
    the conduct of business for failure to comply with the
    securities laws and regulations. Changes to these laws or
    regulations that restrict the conduct of our business could have
    a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations. In particular, changes in the regulations
    governing the registration and distribution of variable
    insurance products, such as changes in the regulatory standards
    for suitability of variable annuity contracts or variable life
    insurance policies, could have such a material adverse effect.

Changes
    in Tax Laws, Tax Regulations, or Interpretations of Such Laws or
    Regulations Could Increase Our Corporate Taxes; Changes in Tax
    Laws Could Make Some of Our Products Less Attractive to
    Consumers   

Changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such
    laws or regulations could increase our corporate taxes. Changes
    in corporate tax rates could affect the value of deferred tax
    assets and deferred tax liabilities. Furthermore, the value of
    deferred tax assets could be impacted by future earnings levels.

Changes in tax laws could make some of our products less
    attractive to consumers. A shift away from life insurance and
    annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products would reduce
    our income from sales of these products, as well as the assets
    upon which we earn investment income.

We cannot predict whether any tax legislation impacting
    corporate taxes or insurance products will be enacted, what the
    specific terms of any such legislation will be or whether, if at
    all, any legislation would have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition and results of operations.

We May
    Need to Fund Deficiencies in Our Closed Block; Assets
    Allocated to the Closed Block Benefit Only the Holders of Closed
    Block Policies   

MLIC s plan of reorganization, as amended (the
     Plan ), required that we establish and operate an
    accounting mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that
    the reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own
    certain individual insurance policies of MLIC are met. See
    Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements. We allocated assets to the closed block in an amount
    that will produce cash flows which, together with anticipated
    revenue from the policies included in the closed block, are
    reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and
    liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not
    limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain
    expenses and tax, and to provide for the continuation of the
    policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the
    experience underlying such scales continues, and for appropriate
    adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. We cannot
    provide assurance that the closed block assets, the cash flows
    generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue
    from the policies included in the closed block will be
    sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these
    policies. If they are not sufficient, we must fund the
    shortfall. Even if they are sufficient, we may choose, for
    competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments
    with our general account funds.

The closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed
    block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies in
    the closed block will benefit only the holders of those
    policies. In addition, to the extent that these amounts are
    greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block
    was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies
    included in the closed block may be greater than they would be
    in the absence of a closed block. Any excess earnings will be
    available for distribution over time only to closed block
    policyholders.

55

Table of Contents   

The
    Continued Threat of Terrorism and Ongoing Military Actions May
    Adversely Affect the Level of Claim Losses We Incur and the
    Value of Our Investment Portfolio   

The continued threat of terrorism, both within the United States
    and abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened
    security measures in response to these types of threats may
    cause significant volatility in global financial markets and
    result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions
    to commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in
    our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines
    in the equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by
    the continued threat of terrorism. We cannot predict whether,
    and the extent to which, companies in which we maintain
    investments may suffer losses as a result of financial,
    commercial or economic disruptions, or how any such disruptions
    might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or
    principal on their securities. The continued threat of terrorism
    also could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced
    insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk
    than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain
    reinsurance at lower prices. Terrorist actions also could
    disrupt our operations centers in the United States or abroad.
    In addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in
    higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated. See
       Difficult Conditions in the Global Capital
    Markets and the Economy Generally May Materially Adversely
    Affect Our Business and Results of Operations and These
    Conditions May Not Improve in the Near Future. 

The
    Occurrence of Events Unanticipated In Our Disaster Recovery
    Systems and Management Continuity Planning Could Impair Our
    Ability to Conduct Business Effectively   

In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an
    epidemic, an industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus,
    a terrorist attack or war, unanticipated problems with our
    disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact
    on our ability to conduct business and on our results of
    operations and financial position, particularly if those
    problems affect our computer-based data processing,
    transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable
    data. We depend heavily upon computer systems to provide
    reliable service. Despite our implementation of a variety of
    security measures, our computer systems could be subject to
    physical and electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions from
    unauthorized tampering. In addition, in the event that a
    significant number of our managers were unavailable in the event
    of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could
    be severely compromised. These interruptions also may interfere
    with our suppliers  ability to provide goods and services
    and our employees  ability to perform their job
    responsibilities.

We
    Face Unforeseen Liabilities or Asset Impairments Arising from
    Possible Acquisitions and Dispositions of Businesses or
    Difficulties Integrating Such Businesses   

We have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses
    in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future.
    There could be unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments,
    including goodwill impairments, that arise in connection with
    the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we may
    acquire in the future. In addition, there may be liabilities or
    asset impairments that we fail, or are unable, to discover in
    the course of performing due diligence investigations on each
    business that we have acquired or may acquire. Furthermore, the
    use of our own funds as consideration in any acquisition would
    consume capital resources that would no longer be available for
    other corporate purposes.

Our ability to achieve certain benefits we anticipate from any
    acquisitions of businesses will depend in large part upon our
    ability to successfully integrate such businesses in an
    efficient and effective manner. We may not be able to integrate
    such businesses smoothly or successfully, and the process may
    take loner than expected. The integration of operations may
    require the dedication of significant management resources,
    which may distract management s attention from day-to-day
    business. If we are unable to successfully integrate the
    operations of such acquired businesses, we may be unable to
    realize the benefits we expect to achieve as a result of such
    acquisitions and our business and results of operations may be
    less than expected.

56

Table of Contents   

Guarantees
    Within Certain of Our Variable Annuity Guarantee Riders that
    Protect Policyholders Against Significant Downturns in Equity
    Markets May Increase the Volatility of Our Results Related to
    the Inclusion of an Own Credit Adjustment in the Estimated Fair
    Value of the Liability for These Riders   

In determining the valuation of certain variable annuity
    guarantee rider liabilities that are carried at estimated fair
    value, we must consider our own credit standing, which is not
    hedged. A decrease in our own credit spread could cause the
    value of these liabilities to increase, resulting in a reduction
    to net income. An increase in our own credit spread could cause
    the value of these liabilities to decrease, resulting in an
    increase to net income. Because this credit adjustment is
    determined, at least in part, by taking into consideration
    publicly available information relating to our publicly-traded
    debt (including related credit default swap spreads), the
    overall condition of fixed income markets may impact this
    adjustment. The credit premium implied in our publicly-traded
    debt instruments may not always necessarily reflect our actual
    credit rating or our claims paying ability. Recently, the
    fixed-income markets have experienced a period of extreme
    volatility which negatively impacted market liquidity and
    increased credit spreads. The increase in credit default swap
    spreads has at times been even more pronounced than in the fixed
    income cash markets. In a broad based market downturn, this
    increase in our own credit spread could result in net income
    being relatively flat when a deterioration in other market
    inputs required for the estimate of fair value would otherwise
    result in a significant reduction in net income. The inclusion
    of our own credit standing in this case has the effect of muting
    the actual net income losses recognized. In subsequent periods,
    if our credit spreads improve relative to the overall market, we
    could have a reduction of net income in an overall improving
    market.

As a
    Holding Company, MetLife, Inc. Depends on the Ability of Its
    Subsidiaries to Transfer Funds to It to Meet Its Obligations and
    Pay Dividends   

MetLife, Inc. is a holding company for its insurance and
    financial subsidiaries and does not have any significant
    operations of its own. Dividends from its subsidiaries and
    permitted payments to it under its tax sharing arrangements with
    its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its
    obligations and to pay preferred and common dividends. If the
    cash MetLife, Inc. receives from its subsidiaries is
    insufficient for it to fund its debt service and other holding
    company obligations, MetLife, Inc. may be required to raise cash
    through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional
    equity or the sale of assets.

The payment of dividends and other distributions to MetLife,
    Inc. by its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance
    laws and regulations. In general, dividends in excess of
    prescribed limits require insurance regulatory approval. In
    addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of
    dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to
    MetLife, Inc. if they determine that the payment could be
    adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. See
     Business   Regulation   Insurance
    Regulation  and Note 18 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements and  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Liquidity and Capital
    Resources   The Holding Company   Liquidity
    and Capital Sources   Dividends. 

Any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or
    advances by our foreign subsidiaries to MetLife, Inc. could be
    subject to taxation or other restrictions on dividends or
    repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary transfer
    restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the
    jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate. See
       Our International Operations Face Political,
    Legal, Operational and Other Risks That Could Negatively Affect
    Those Operations or Our Profitability. 

MetLife,
    Inc. s Board of Directors May Control the Outcome of
    Stockholder Votes on Many Matters Due to the Voting Provisions
    of the MetLife Policyholder Trust   

Under the Plan, we established the MetLife Policyholder Trust
    (the  Trust ) to hold the shares of MetLife, Inc.
    common stock allocated to eligible policyholders not receiving
    cash or policy credits under the plan. As of February 20,
    2009, 241,743,740 shares, or 29.6%, of the outstanding
    shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock, are held in the Trust.
    Because of the number of shares held in the Trust and the voting
    provisions of the Trust, the Trust may affect the outcome of
    matters brought to a stockholder vote.

Except on votes regarding certain fundamental corporate actions
    described below, the trustee will vote all of the shares of
    common stock held in the Trust in accordance with the
    recommendations given by MetLife, Inc. s

57

Table of Contents   

Board of Directors to its stockholders or, if the board gives no
    such recommendations, as directed by the board. As a result of
    the voting provisions of the Trust, the Board of Directors may
    be able to control votes on matters submitted to a vote of
    stockholders, excluding those fundamental corporate actions, so
    long as the Trust holds a substantial number of shares of common
    stock.

If the vote relates to fundamental corporate actions specified
    in the Trust, the trustee will solicit instructions from the
    Trust beneficiaries and vote all shares held in the Trust in
    proportion to the instructions it receives. These actions
    include:

an election or removal of directors in which a stockholder has
    properly nominated one or more candidates in opposition to a
    nominee or nominees of MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors
    or a vote on a stockholder s proposal to oppose a board
    nominee for director, remove a director for cause or fill a
    vacancy caused by the removal of a director by stockholders,
    subject to certain conditions;

a merger or consolidation, a sale, lease or exchange of all or
    substantially all of the assets, or a recapitalization or
    dissolution, of MetLife, Inc., in each case requiring a vote of
    stockholders under applicable Delaware law;

any transaction that would result in an exchange or conversion
    of shares of common stock held by the Trust for cash, securities
    or other property; and

any proposal requiring MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors
    to amend or redeem the rights under the stockholder rights plan,
    other than a proposal with respect to which we have received
    advice of nationally-recognized legal counsel to the effect that
    the proposal is not a proper subject for stockholder action
    under Delaware law.

If a vote concerns any of these fundamental corporate actions,
    the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by
    the Trust in proportion to the instructions it received, which
    will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually
    given by Trust beneficiaries.

State
    Laws, Federal Laws, Our Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws
    and Our Stockholder Rights Plan May Delay, Deter or Prevent
    Takeovers and Business Combinations that Stockholders Might
    Consider in Their Best Interests   

State laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may
    delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders
    might consider in their best interests. For instance, they may
    prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium
    over the market price of MetLife, Inc. s common stock
    offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence
    of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may
    adversely affect the prevailing market price of MetLife,
    Inc. s common stock if they are viewed as discouraging
    takeover attempts in the future.

Any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would
    face various regulatory obstacles which may delay, deter or
    prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders of MetLife, Inc.
    might consider in their best interests. First, the insurance
    laws and regulations of the various states in which MetLife,
    Inc. s insurance subsidiaries are organized may delay or
    impede a business combination involving us. State insurance laws
    prohibit an entity from acquiring control of an insurance
    company without the prior approval of the domestic insurance
    regulator. Under most states  statutes, an entity is
    presumed to have control of an insurance company if it owns,
    directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of that
    insurance company or its parent company. We are also subject to
    banking regulations, and may in the future become subject to
    additional regulations. In addition, the Investment Company Act
    would require approval by the contract owners of our variable
    contracts in order to effectuate a change of control of any
    affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying our
    variable contracts. Finally, FINRA approval would be necessary
    for a change of control of any FINRA registered broker-dealer
    that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of MetLife, Inc.

In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General
    Corporation Law may affect the ability of an  interested
    stockholder  to engage in certain business combinations,
    including mergers, consolidations or acquisitions of additional
    shares, for a period of three years following the time that the
    stockholder becomes an  interested

58

Table of Contents   

stockholder.  An  interested stockholder  is
    defined to include persons owning, directly or indirectly, 15%
    or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation.

MetLife, Inc. s certificate of incorporation and by-laws
    also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a
    takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best
    interests. These provisions may adversely affect prevailing
    market prices for MetLife, Inc. s common stock and include:
    classification of MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors into
    three classes; a prohibition on the calling of special meetings
    by stockholders; advance notice procedures for the nomination of
    candidates to the Board of Directors and stockholder proposals
    to be considered at stockholder meetings; and supermajority
    voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of
    the certificate of incorporation and by-laws.

The stockholder rights plan adopted by MetLife, Inc. s
    Board of Directors may also have anti-takeover effects. The
    stockholder rights plan is designed to protect MetLife,
    Inc. s stockholders in the event of unsolicited offers to
    acquire us and other coercive takeover tactics which, in the
    opinion of MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors, could impair
    its ability to represent stockholder interests. The provisions
    of the stockholder rights plan may render an unsolicited
    takeover more difficult or less likely to occur or might prevent
    such a takeover, even though such takeover may offer MetLife,
    Inc. s stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at
    a price above the prevailing market price and may be favored by
    a majority of MetLife, Inc. s stockholders.

Item 1B.      

Unresolved
    Staff Comments   

MetLife has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff regarding
    its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act.

Item 2.      

Properties   

In December 2006, we signed a lease for 410,000 rentable
    square feet of which 100,000 rentable square feet are
    available for sublease in Manhattan, New York to be located on
    12 floors. The term of the lease commenced during 2008 and will
    continue for 21 years. We moved certain operations
    (including certain associates working in the Institutional,
    Individual and International segments, as well as
    Corporate   Other), from Long Island City,
    New York, to Manhattan in late 2008, but continue to
    maintain an on-going presence in Long Island City. Our lease in
    Long Island City, New York, covers 686,000 rentable square
    feet, under a long-term lease arrangement. In connection with
    the move of certain operations to Manhattan, in late 2008 we
    subleased 80,000 rentable square feet to two subtenants,
    each of which has met our standards of review with respect to
    creditworthiness. Additionally, 180,000 rentable square
    feet are available for sublease. As a result of this movement of
    operations, and current market conditions, the Company incurred
    a lease impairment charge of $38 million.

In November 2006, we sold our Peter Cooper Village and
    Stuyvesant Town properties located in Manhattan, New York to a
    group led by Tishman Speyer and BlackRock Realty, the real
    estate arm of BlackRock, Inc., for $5.4 billion. The gain
    of $3.0 billion is included in income from discontinued
    operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of income.

In connection with the 2005 sale of the 200 Park Avenue
    property, we have retained rights to existing signage and are
    leasing space for associates in the property for 20 years
    with optional renewal periods through 2205. Associates located
    in the 200 Park Avenue office, our headquarters, include those
    working in the Institutional and Individual segments.

We continue to own 15 other buildings in the United States that
    we use in the operation of our business. These buildings contain
    4.2 million rentable square feet and are located in the
    following states: Connecticut, Florida, Illinois, Missouri, New
    Jersey, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island.
    Our computer center in Rensselaer, New York is not owned in fee
    but rather is occupied pursuant to a long-term ground lease. We
    lease space in 797 other locations throughout the United States,
    and these leased facilities consist of 8.7 million rentable
    square feet. Approximately 66% of these leases are occupied as
    sales offices for the Individual segment, for MetLife Bank
    included within Corporate   Other, and the balance for
    our other business activities. We also own nine buildings
    outside the United States, comprising 300,000 rentable
    square feet including one building 192,000 square feet.
    condominium unit in Mexico that we use in the operation of our
    business. We lease 3.0 million rentable square

59

Table of Contents   

feet in various locations outside the United States. Management
    believes that these properties are suitable and adequate for our
    current and anticipated business operations.

We arrange for property and casualty coverage on our properties,
    taking into consideration our risk exposures and the cost and
    availability of commercial coverages, including deductible loss
    levels. In connection with the renewal of those coverages, we
    have arranged $700 million of property coverage including
    coverage for terrorism on our real estate portfolio through
    May 15, 2009, its renewal date.

Item 3.      

Legal
    Proceedings   

The Company is a defendant in a large number of litigation
    matters. In some of the matters, very large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages,
    are sought. Modern pleading practice in the United States
    permits considerable variation in the assertion of monetary
    damages or other relief. Jurisdictions may permit claimants not
    to specify the monetary damages sought or may permit claimants
    to state only that the amount sought is sufficient to invoke the
    jurisdiction of the trial court. In addition, jurisdictions may
    permit plaintiffs to allege monetary damages in amounts well
    exceeding reasonably possible verdicts in the jurisdiction for
    similar matters. This variability in pleadings, together with
    the actual experience of the Company in litigating or resolving
    through settlement numerous claims over an extended period of
    time, demonstrate to management that the monetary relief which
    may be specified in a lawsuit or claim bears little relevance to
    its merits or disposition value. Thus, unless stated below, the
    specific monetary relief sought is not noted.

Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation
    matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular
    points in time may normally be inherently impossible to
    ascertain with any degree of certainty. Inherent uncertainties
    can include how fact finders will view individually and in their
    totality documentary evidence, the credibility and effectiveness
    of witnesses  testimony, and how trial and appellate courts
    will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence
    presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal.
    Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of
    how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the
    relevant evidence and applicable law.

On a quarterly and annual basis, the Company reviews relevant
    information with respect to litigation and contingencies to be
    reflected in the Company s consolidated financial
    statements. In 2007, the Company received $39 million upon
    the resolution of an indemnification claim associated with the
    2000 acquisition of General American Life Insurance Company
    ( GALIC ), and the Company reduced legal liabilities
    by $38 million after the settlement of certain cases. The
    review includes senior legal and financial personnel. Unless
    stated below, estimates of possible losses or ranges of loss for
    particular matters cannot in the ordinary course be made with a
    reasonable degree of certainty. Liabilities are established when
    it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of
    the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities have been
    established for a number of the matters noted below; in 2007 the
    Company increased legal liabilities for pending sales practices,
    employment, property and casualty and intellectual property
    litigation matters against the Company. It is possible that some
    of the matters could require the Company to pay damages or make
    other expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that could
    not be estimated at December 31, 2008.

Demutualization
    Actions  

Several lawsuits were brought in 2000 challenging the fairness
    of the Plan and the adequacy and accuracy of MLIC s
    disclosure to policyholders regarding the Plan. The actions
    discussed below name as defendants some or all of MLIC, the
    Holding Company, and individual directors. MLIC, the Holding
    Company, and the individual directors believe they have
    meritorious defenses to the plaintiffs  claims and are
    contesting vigorously all of the plaintiffs  claims in
    these actions.

Fiala, et al. v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., et al. (Sup.
    Ct., N.Y. County, filed March 17, 2000).   The
    plaintiffs in the consolidated state court class action seek
    compensatory relief and punitive damages against MLIC, the
    Holding Company, and individual directors. The court has
    certified a litigation class of present and former policyholders
    on plaintiffs  claim that defendants violated
    section 7312 of the New York Insurance Law. Pursuant to the
    court s order, plaintiffs have given notice to the class of
    the pendency of this action. Defendants  motion for summary
    judgment is pending.

60

Table of Contents   

In re MetLife Demutualization Litig. (E.D.N.Y., filed
    April 18, 2000).   In this class action
    against MLIC and the Holding Company, plaintiffs served a second
    consolidated amended complaint in 2004. Plaintiffs assert
    violations of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934 in connection with the Plan, claiming that
    the Policyholder Information Booklets failed to disclose certain
    material facts and contained certain material misstatements.
    They seek rescission and compensatory damages. By orders dated
    July 19, 2005 and August 29, 2006, the federal trial
    court certified a litigation class of present and former
    policyholders. The court has directed the manner and form of
    notice to the class, but plaintiffs have not yet distributed the
    notice. MLIC and the Holding Company have moved for summary
    judgment, and plaintiffs have moved for partial summary
    judgment. The court heard oral argument on the parties 
    motions for summary judgment on September 19, 2008.

Asbestos-Related
    Claims  

MLIC is and has been a defendant in a large number of
    asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts. These
    suits principally allege that the plaintiff or plaintiffs
    suffered personal injury resulting from exposure to asbestos and
    seek both actual and punitive damages. MLIC has never engaged in
    the business of manufacturing, producing, distributing or
    selling asbestos or asbestos-containing products nor has MLIC
    issued liability or workers  compensation insurance to
    companies in the business of manufacturing, producing,
    distributing or selling asbestos or asbestos-containing
    products. The lawsuits principally have focused on allegations
    with respect to certain research, publication and other
    activities of one or more of MLIC s employees during the
    period from the 1920 s through approximately the
    1950 s and allege that MLIC learned or should have learned
    of certain health risks posed by asbestos and, among other
    things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those health
    risks. MLIC believes that it should not have legal liability in
    these cases. The outcome of most asbestos litigation matters,
    however, is uncertain and can be impacted by numerous variables,
    including differences in legal rulings in various jurisdictions,
    the nature of the alleged injury, and factors unrelated to the
    ultimate legal merit of the claims asserted against MLIC. MLIC
    employs a number of resolution strategies to manage its asbestos
    loss exposure, including seeking resolution of pending
    litigation by judicial rulings and settling individual or groups
    of claims or lawsuits under appropriate circumstances.

Claims asserted against MLIC have included negligence,
    intentional tort and conspiracy concerning the health risks
    associated with asbestos. MLIC s defenses (beyond denial of
    certain factual allegations) include that: (i) MLIC owed no
    duty to the plaintiffs   it had no special
    relationship with the plaintiffs and did not manufacture,
    produce, distribute or sell the asbestos products that allegedly
    injured plaintiffs; (ii) plaintiffs did not rely on any
    actions of MLIC; (iii) MLIC s conduct was not the
    cause of the plaintiffs  injuries;
    (iv) plaintiffs  exposure occurred after the dangers
    of asbestos were known; and (v) the applicable time with
    respect to filing suit has expired. During the course of the
    litigation, certain trial courts have granted motions dismissing
    claims against MLIC, while other trial courts have denied
    MLIC s motions to dismiss. There can be no assurance that
    MLIC will receive favorable decisions on motions in the future.
    While most cases brought to date have settled, MLIC intends to
    continue to defend aggressively against claims based on asbestos
    exposure, including defending claims at trials.

The approximate total number of asbestos personal injury claims
    pending against MLIC as of the dates indicated, the approximate
    number of new claims during the years ended on those dates and
    the approximate total settlement payments made to resolve
    asbestos personal injury claims at or during those years are set
    forth in the following table:

(1)  

Settlement payments represent payments made by MLIC during the
    year in connection with settlements made in that year and in
    prior years. Amounts do not include MLIC s attorneys 
    fees and expenses and do not reflect amounts received from
    insurance carriers. 

61

Table of Contents   

In 2005, MLIC received approximately 18,500 new claims, ending
    the year with a total of approximately 100,250 claims, and paid
    approximately $74.3 million for settlements reached in 2005
    and prior years. In 2004, MLIC received approximately 23,900 new
    claims, ending the year with a total of approximately 108,000
    claims, and paid approximately $85.5 million for
    settlements reached in 2004 and prior years. In 2003, MLIC
    received approximately 58,750 new claims, ending the year with a
    total of approximately 111,700 claims, and paid approximately
    $84.2 million for settlements reached in 2003 and prior
    years. The number of asbestos cases that may be brought, the
    aggregate amount of any liability that MLIC may incur, and the
    total amount paid in settlements in any given year are uncertain
    and may vary significantly from year to year.

The ability of MLIC to estimate its ultimate asbestos exposure
    is subject to considerable uncertainty, and the conditions
    impacting its liability can be dynamic and subject to change.
    The availability of reliable data is limited and it is difficult
    to predict with any certainty the numerous variables that can
    affect liability estimates, including the number of future
    claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity
    of disease in pending and future claims, the impact of the
    number of new claims filed in a particular jurisdiction and
    variations in the law in the jurisdictions in which claims are
    filed, the possible impact of tort reform efforts, the
    willingness of courts to allow plaintiffs to pursue claims
    against MLIC when exposure to asbestos took place after the
    dangers of asbestos exposure were well known, and the impact of
    any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts.

The ability to make estimates regarding ultimate asbestos
    exposure declines significantly as the estimates relate to years
    further in the future. In the Company s judgment, there is
    a future point after which losses cease to be probable and
    reasonably estimable. It is reasonably possible that the
    Company s total exposure to asbestos claims may be
    materially greater than the asbestos liability currently accrued
    and that future charges to income may be necessary. While the
    potential future charges could be material in the particular
    quarterly or annual periods in which they are recorded, based on
    information currently known by management, management does not
    believe any such charges are likely to have a material adverse
    effect on the Company s financial position.

During 1998, MLIC paid $878 million in premiums for excess
    insurance policies for asbestos-related claims. The excess
    insurance policies for asbestos-related claims provided for
    recovery of losses up to $1.5 billion in excess of a
    $400 million self-insured retention. The Company s
    initial option to commute the excess insurance policies for
    asbestos-related claims would have arisen at the end of 2008. On
    September 29, 2008, MLIC entered into agreements commuting
    the excess insurance policies as of September 30, 2008. As
    a result of the commutation of the policies, MLIC received cash
    and securities totaling $632 million. Of this total, MLIC
    received $115 million in fixed maturity securities on
    September 26, 2008, $200 million in cash on
    October 29, 2008, and $317 million in cash on
    January 29, 2009. MLIC recognized a loss on commutation of
    the policies in the amount of $35.3 million during 2008.

In the years prior to commutation, the excess insurance policies
    for asbestos-related claims were subject to annual and per claim
    sublimits. Amounts exceeding the sublimits during 2007, 2006 and
    2005 were approximately $16 million, $8 million and
    $0, respectively. Amounts were recoverable under the policies
    annually with respect to claims paid during the prior calendar
    year. Each asbestos-related policy contained an experience fund
    and a reference fund that provided for payments to MLIC at the
    commutation date if the reference fund was greater than zero at
    commutation or pro rata reductions from time to time in the loss
    reimbursements to MLIC if the cumulative return on the reference
    fund was less than the return specified in the experience fund.
    The return in the reference fund was tied to performance of the
    S P 500 Index and the Lehman Brothers Aggregate Bond Index.
    A claim with respect to the prior year was made under the excess
    insurance policies in each year from 2003 through 2008 for the
    amounts paid with respect to asbestos litigation in excess of
    the retention. The foregone loss reimbursements were
    approximately $62.2 million with respect to claims for the
    period of 2002 through 2007. Because the policies were commuted
    as of September 30, 2008, there will be no claims under the
    policies or forgone loss reimbursements with respect to payments
    made in 2008 and thereafter.

The Company believes adequate provision has been made in its
    consolidated financial statements for all probable and
    reasonably estimable losses for asbestos-related claims.
    MLIC s recorded asbestos liability is based on its
    estimation of the following elements, as informed by the facts
    presently known to it, its understanding of current law, and its
    past experiences: (i) the probable and reasonably estimable
    liability for asbestos claims already asserted against MLIC,
    including claims settled but not yet paid; (ii) the
    probable and reasonably estimable liability

62

Table of Contents   

for asbestos claims not yet asserted against MLIC, but which
    MLIC believes are reasonably probable of assertion; and
    (iii) the legal defense costs associated with the foregoing
    claims. Significant assumptions underlying MLIC s analysis
    of the adequacy of its recorded liability with respect to
    asbestos litigation include: (i) the number of future
    claims; (ii) the cost to resolve claims; and (iii) the
    cost to defend claims.

MLIC reevaluates on a quarterly and annual basis its exposure
    from asbestos litigation, including studying its claims
    experience, reviewing external literature regarding asbestos
    claims experience in the United States, assessing relevant
    trends impacting asbestos liability and considering numerous
    variables that can affect its asbestos liability exposure on an
    overall or per claim basis. These variables include bankruptcies
    of other companies involved in asbestos litigation, legislative
    and judicial developments, the number of pending claims
    involving serious disease, the number of new claims filed
    against it and other defendants, and the jurisdictions in which
    claims are pending. As previously disclosed, in 2002 MLIC
    increased its recorded liability for asbestos-related claims by
    $402 million from approximately $820 million to
    $1,225 million. Based upon its regular reevaluation of its
    exposure from asbestos litigation, MLIC has updated its
    liability analysis for asbestos-related claims through
    December 31, 2008.

Regulatory
    Matters  

The Company receives and responds to subpoenas or other
    inquiries from state regulators, including state insurance
    commissioners; state attorneys general or other state
    governmental authorities; federal regulators, including the SEC;
    federal governmental authorities, including congressional
    committees; and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
    seeking a broad range of information. The issues involved in
    information requests and regulatory matters vary widely. Certain
    regulators have requested information and documents regarding
    contingent commission payments to brokers, the Company s
    awareness of any  sham  bids for business, bids and
    quotes that the Company submitted to potential customers,
    incentive agreements entered into with brokers, or compensation
    paid to intermediaries. Regulators also have requested
    information relating to market timing and late trading of mutual
    funds and variable insurance products and, generally, the
    marketing of products. The Company has received a subpoena from
    the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District
    of California asking for documents regarding the insurance
    broker Universal Life Resources. The Company has been
    cooperating fully with these inquiries.

Regulatory authorities in a small number of states have had
    investigations or inquiries relating to sales of individual life
    insurance policies or annuities or other products by MLIC; New
    England Mutual Life Insurance Company, New England Life
    Insurance Company and New England Securities Corporation
    (collectively  New England  GALIC; Walnut Street
    Securities, Inc. ( Walnut Street Securities ) and
    MetLife Securities, Inc. ( MSI ). Over the past
    several years, these and a number of investigations by other
    regulatory authorities were resolved for monetary payments and
    certain other relief. The Company may continue to resolve
    investigations in a similar manner.

MSI is a defendant in two regulatory matters brought by the
    Illinois Department of Securities. In 2005, MSI received a
    notice from the Illinois Department of Securities asserting
    possible violations of the Illinois Securities Act in connection
    with sales of a former affiliate s mutual funds. A response
    has been submitted and in January 2008, MSI received notice of
    the commencement of an administrative action by the Illinois
    Department of Securities. In May 2008, MSI s motion to
    dismiss the action was denied. In the second matter, in December
    2008 MSI received a Notice of Hearing from the Illinois
    Department of Securities based upon a complaint alleging that
    MSI failed to reasonably supervise one of its former registered
    representatives in connection with the sale of variable
    annuities to Illinois investors. MSI intends to vigorously
    defend against the claims in these matters.

In June 2008, the Environmental Protection Agency issued a
    Notice of Violation ( NOV ) regarding the operations
    of the Homer City Generating Station, an electrical generation
    facility. The NOV alleges, among other things, that the
    electrical generation facility is being operated in violation of
    certain federal and state Clean Air Act requirements. Homer City
    OL6 LLC, an entity owned by MLIC, is a passive investor with a
    minority interest in the electrical generation facility, which
    is solely operated by the lessee, EME Homer City Generation L.P.
    ( EME Homer ). Homer City OL6 LLC and EME Homer are
    among the respondents identified in the NOV. EME Homer has been
    notified of its obligation to indemnify Homer City OL6 LLC and
    MLIC for any claims resulting from the NOV and has expressly
    acknowledged its obligation to indemnify Homer City OL6 LLC.

63

Table of Contents   

Other
    Litigation  

Jacynthe Evoy-Larouche v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co.
    (Que. Super. Ct., filed March 1998).   This
    putative class action lawsuit involving sales practices claims
    is pending against MLIC in Canada. Plaintiff alleges
    misrepresentations regarding dividends and future payments for
    life insurance policies and seeks unspecified damages.

Travelers Ins. Co., et al. v. Banc of America Securities
    LLC (S.D.N.Y., filed December 13, 2001).   On
    January 6, 2009, after a jury trial ,  the district
    court entered a judgment in favor of The Travelers Insurance
    Company, now known as MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut,
    in the amount of approximately $42 million in connection
    with securities and common law claims against the defendant. The
    defendant has filed a post judgment motion seeking a judgment in
    its favor or, in the alternative, a new trial. If this motion is
    denied, the defendant will likely file an appeal. As it is
    possible that the judgment could be affected during the post
    judgment motion practice or upon appeal, and the Company has not
    collected any portion of the judgment, the Company has not
    recognized any award amount in its consolidated financial
    statements.

Shipley v. St. Paul Fire and Marine Ins. Co. and
    Metropolitan Property and Casualty Ins. Co. (Ill. Cir. Ct.,
    Madison County, filed February 26 and July 2,
    2003).   Two putative nationwide class actions have
    been filed against Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance
    Company in Illinois. One suit claims breach of contract and
    fraud due to the alleged underpayment of medical claims arising
    from the use of a purportedly biased provider fee pricing
    system. The second suit currently alleges breach of contract
    arising from the alleged use of preferred provider organizations
    to reduce medical provider fees covered by the medical claims
    portion of the insurance policy. Motions for class certification
    have been filed and briefed in both cases. A third putative
    nationwide class action relating to the payment of medical
    providers,  Innovative Physical Therapy, Inc. v. MetLife
    Auto   Home, et ano (D. N.J., filed November 12,
    2007),  was filed against Metropolitan Property and Casualty
    Insurance Company in federal court in New Jersey. The court
    granted the defendants  motion to dismiss, and plaintiff
    appealed the dismissal. The Company is vigorously defending
    against the claims in these matters.

The American Dental Association, et al. v. MetLife Inc., et
    al. (S.D. Fla., filed May 19, 2003).   The
    American Dental Association and three individual providers have
    sued the Holding Company, MLIC and other non-affiliated
    insurance companies in a putative class action lawsuit. The
    plaintiffs purport to represent a nationwide class of
     in-network 
    providers who allege that their claims are being wrongfully
    reduced by downcoding, bundling, and the improper use and
    programming of software. The complaint alleges federal
    racketeering and various state law theories of liability. On
    February 10, 2009, the district court granted the
    Company s motion to dismiss plaintiffs  second amended
    complaint, dismissing all of plaintiffs  claims except for
    breach of contract claims. Plaintiffs have been provided with an
    opportunity to re-plead the dismissed claims by
    February 26, 2009.

In Re Ins. Brokerage Antitrust Litig. (D. N.J., filed
    February 24, 2005).   In this multi-district
    class action proceeding, plaintiffs  complaint alleged that
    the Holding Company, MLIC, several non-affiliated insurance
    companies and several insurance brokers violated the Racketeer
    Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act ( RICO ), the
    Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
    ( ERISA ), and antitrust laws and committed other
    misconduct in the context of providing insurance to employee
    benefit plans and to persons who participate in such employee
    benefit plans. In August and September 2007 and January 2008,
    the court issued orders granting defendants  motions to
    dismiss with prejudice the federal antitrust, the RICO, and the
    ERISA claims. In February 2008, the court dismissed the
    remaining state law claims on jurisdictional grounds.
    Plaintiffs  appeal from the orders dismissing their RICO
    and federal antitrust claims is pending with the U.S. Court
    of Appeals for the Third Circuit. A putative class action
    alleging that the Holding Company and other non-affiliated
    defendants violated state laws was transferred to the District
    of New Jersey but was not consolidated with other related
    actions. Plaintiffs  motion to remand this action to state
    court in Florida is pending.

MetLife v. Park Avenue Securities, et. al. (FINRA
    Arbitration, filed May 2006).   MetLife commenced
    an action against Park Avenue Securities LLC., a registered
    investment adviser and broker-dealer that is an indirect
    wholly-owned subsidiary of The Guardian Life Insurance Company
    of America, alleging misappropriation of confidential and
    proprietary information and use of prohibited methods to solicit
    MetLife customers and recruit MetLife financial services
    representatives. On February 12, 2009, a Financial Industry
    Regulatory Authority

64

Table of Contents   

( FINRA ) arbitration panel awarded MetLife
    $21 million in damages, including punitive damages and
    attorneys fees. Park Avenue Securities may appeal the award.

Thomas, et al. v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., et al. (W.D.
    Okla., filed January 31, 2007).   A putative
    class action complaint was filed against MLIC and MSI.
    Plaintiffs assert legal theories of violations of the federal
    securities laws and violations of state laws with respect to the
    sale of certain proprietary products by the Company s
    agency distribution group. Plaintiffs seek rescission,
    compensatory damages, interest, punitive damages and
    attorneys  fees and expenses. In January and May 2008, the
    court issued orders granting the defendants  motion to
    dismiss in part, dismissing all of plaintiffs  claims
    except for claims under the Investment Advisers Act.
    Defendants  motion to dismiss claims under the Investment
    Advisers Act was denied. The Company will vigorously defend
    against the remaining claims in this matter.

Sales Practices Claims.   Over the past several
    years, MLIC, New England, GALIC, Walnut Street Securities and
    MSI have faced numerous claims, including class action lawsuits,
    alleging improper marketing or sales of individual life
    insurance policies, annuities, mutual funds or other products.
    Some of the current cases seek substantial damages, including
    punitive and treble damages and attorneys  fees. At
    December 31, 2008, there were approximately 125 sales
    practices litigation matters pending against the Company. The
    Company continues to vigorously defend against the claims in
    these matters. The Company believes adequate provision has been
    made in its consolidated financial statements for all probable
    and reasonably estimable losses for sales practices claims
    against MLIC, New England, GALIC, MSI and Walnut Street
    Securities.

Summary  

Putative or certified class action litigation and other
    litigation and claims and assessments against the Company, in
    addition to those discussed previously and those otherwise
    provided for in the Company s consolidated financial
    statements, have arisen in the course of the Company s
    business, including, but not limited to, in connection with its
    activities as an insurer, employer, investor, investment advisor
    and taxpayer. Further, state insurance regulatory authorities
    and other federal and state authorities regularly make inquiries
    and conduct investigations concerning the Company s
    compliance with applicable insurance and other laws and
    regulations.

It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of all
    pending investigations and legal proceedings or provide
    reasonable ranges of potential losses, except as noted
    previously in connection with specific matters. In some of the
    matters referred to previously, very large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages,
    are sought. Although in light of these considerations it is
    possible that an adverse outcome in certain cases could have a
    material adverse effect upon the Company s financial
    position, based on information currently known by the
    Company s management, in its opinion, the outcomes of such
    pending investigations and legal proceedings are not likely to
    have such an effect. However, given the large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the
    inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an
    adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time,
    have a material adverse effect on the Company s
    consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or
    annual periods.

Item 4.      

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders during the
    fourth quarter of 2008.

65

Table of Contents   

Part II  

Item 5.      

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

Issuer
    Common Equity   

MetLife, Inc. s common stock, par value $0.01 per share,
    began trading on the NYSE under the symbol  MET  on
    April 5, 2000.

The following table presents high and low closing prices for the
    common stock on the NYSE for the periods indicated:

As of February 20, 2009, there were 88,239 stockholders of
    record of common stock.

The table below presents dividend declaration, record and
    payment dates, as well as per share and aggregate dividend
    amounts, for the common stock:

Future common stock dividend decisions will be determined by the
    Company s Board of Directors after taking into
    consideration factors such as our current earnings, expected
    medium-term and long-term earnings, financial condition,
    regulatory capital position, and applicable governmental
    regulations and policies. Furthermore, the payment of dividends
    and other distributions to the Company by its insurance
    subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. See
     Business   Regulation   Insurance
    Regulation,   Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Liquidity and Capital
    Resources   The Holding Company   Liquidity
    and Capital Sources   Dividends  and Note 18
    of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

66

Table of Contents   

Issuer
    Purchases of Equity Securities   

Purchases of common stock made by or on behalf of the Company or
    its affiliates during the quarter ended December 31, 2008
    are set forth below:

(1)  

During the periods October 1   October 31, 2008,
    November 1   November 30, 2008 and December
    1   December 31, 2008, separate account
    affiliates of the Company purchased 35,629 shares,
    13,386 shares and 18,433 shares, respectively, of
    common stock on the open market in nondiscretionary transactions
    to rebalance index funds. Except as disclosed above, there were
    no shares of common stock which were repurchased by the Company
    other than through a publicly announced plan or program. 

(2)  

In April 2008, the Company s Board of Directors authorized
    an additional $1 billion common stock repurchase program,
    which will begin after the completion of the January 2008
    $1 billion common stock repurchase program, of which
    $261 million remained outstanding at December 31,
    2008. At December 31, 2008, the Company had
    $1,261 million remaining under its common stock repurchase
    program authorization. Under these authorizations, the Company
    may purchase its common stock from the MetLife Policyholder
    Trust, in the open market (including pursuant to the terms of a
    pre-set trading plan meeting the requirements of
     Rule 10b5-1 
    under the Exchange Act) and in privately negotiated transactions. 

See also  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Holding Company
      Liquidity and Capital Uses   Share
    Repurchases  for further information relating to common
    stock repurchases.

67

Table of Contents   

Item 6.      

Selected
    Financial Data   

The following selected financial data has been derived from the
    Company s audited consolidated financial statements. The
    statement of income data for the years ended December 31,
    2008, 2007 and 2006, and the balance sheet data at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007 have been derived from the
    Company s audited financial statements included elsewhere
    herein. The statement of income data for the years ended
    December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the balance sheet data at
    December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 have been derived from the
    Company s audited financial statements not included herein.
    The selected financial data set forth below should be read in
    conjunction with  Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and the
    consolidated financial statements and related notes included
    elsewhere herein. Some previously reported amounts, most notably
    discontinued operations discussed in footnote 2, have been
    reclassified to conform with the presentation at and for the
    year ended December 31, 2008.

68

Table of Contents   

69

Table of Contents   

(1)  

On July 1, 2005, the Company completed the acquisition of
    The Travelers Insurance Company, excluding certain assets, most
    significantly, Primerica, from Citigroup Inc.
    ( Citigroup ), and substantially all of
    Citigroup s international insurance businesses. The 2005
    selected financial data includes total revenues and total
    expenses of $966 million and $577 million,
    respectively, from the date of the acquisition. 

(2)  

Discontinued Operations: 

Real
    Estate  

Income related to real estate sold or classified as
    held-for-sale is presented as discontinued operations. The
    following information presents the components of income from
    discontinued real estate operations:

70

Table of Contents   

Operations  

In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company entered into an
    agreement to sell its wholly-owned subsidiary, Cova, to a third
    party to be completed in early 2009. In September 2008, the
    Company completed a tax-free split-off of its majority-owned
    subsidiary, Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated
    ( RGA ). In September 2007, September 2005 and January
    2005, the Company sold its MetLife Insurance Limited
    ( MetLife Australia ) annuities and pension
    businesses, P.T. Sejahtera ( MetLife Indonesia )
    and SSRM Holdings, Inc. ( SSRM ), respectively. The
    assets, liabilities and operations of Cova, RGA, MetLife
    Australia, MetLife Indonesia and SSRM have been reclassified
    into discontinued operations for all years presented. The
    following tables present these discontinued operations:

(3)  

The cumulative effect of a change in accounting, net of income
    tax, of $86 million for the year ended December 31,
    2004, resulted from the adoption of
     SOP 03-1, 
     Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain
    Nontraditional Long-Duration Contracts and for Separate Account
      ( SOP 03-1 ).  

(4)  

Policyholder liabilities include future policy benefits, other
    policyholder funds and bank deposits. The life and health
    policyholder liabilities also include policyholder account
    balances, policyholder dividends payable and the policyholder
    dividend obligation. 

(5)  

The cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles, net
    of income tax, of $329 million, which decreased retained
    earnings at January 1, 2007, resulted from
    $292 million related to the adoption of
     SOP 05-1, 
     Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition
    Costs in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance
    Contracts,  and $37 million related to the adoption of
    Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48,
     Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   An
    Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 . The
    cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles, net of
    income tax, of $27 million, which increased retained
    earnings at January 1, 2008, resulted from the adoption of
    SFAS No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial
    Assets and Financial Liabilities  ( SFAS 159 ). 

71

Table of Contents   

(6)  

The cumulative effect of a change in accounting, net of income
    tax, of $744 million resulted from the adoption of SFAS
    No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit
    Pension and Other Postretirement Plans,  which decreased
    accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at
    December 31, 2006. The cumulative effect of a change in
    accounting principle, net of income tax, of $10 million
    resulted from the adoption of SFAS 159, which decreased
    accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at January 1,
    2008. 

(7)  

Return on common equity is defined as net income available to
    common shareholders divided by average common stockholders 
    equity. 

Item 7.   Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   

For purposes of this discussion,  MetLife  or the
     Company  refers to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware
    corporation incorporated in 1999 (the  Holding
    Company ), and its subsidiaries, including Metropolitan
    Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ). Following this
    summary is a discussion addressing the consolidated results of
    operations and financial condition of the Company for the
    periods indicated. This discussion should be read in conjunction
    with the forward-looking statement information included below,
     Risk Factors,   Selected Financial Data 
    and the Company s consolidated financial statements
    included elsewhere herein.

This Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations may contain or incorporate
    by reference information that includes or is based upon
    forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking
    statements give expectations or forecasts of future events.
    These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not
    relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words
    such as  anticipate,   estimate, 
     expect,   project,   intend, 
     plan,   believe  and other words and terms
    of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future
    operating or financial performance. In particular, these include
    statements relating to future actions, prospective services or
    products, future performance or results of current and
    anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the
    outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, trends in
    operations and financial results.

Any or all forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong.
    They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or
    unknown risks and uncertainties. Many such factors will be
    important in determining MetLife s actual future results.
    These statements are based on current expectations and the
    current economic environment. They involve a number of risks and
    uncertainties that are difficult to predict. These statements
    are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results could
    differ materially from those expressed or implied in the
    forward-looking statements. Risks, uncertainties, and other
    factors that might cause such differences include the risks,
    uncertainties and other factors identified in MetLife,
    Inc. s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
    Commission ( SEC ). These factors include:
    (i) difficult and adverse conditions in the global and
    domestic capital and credit markets; (ii) continued
    volatility and further deterioration of the capital and credit
    markets, which may affect the Company s ability to seek
    financing or access its credit facilities;
    (iii) uncertainty about the effectiveness of the
    U.S. government s plan to stabilize the financial
    system by injecting capital into financial institutions,
    purchasing large amounts of illiquid, mortgage-backed and other
    securities from financial institutions, or otherwise;
    (iv) the impairment of other financial institutions;
    (v) potential liquidity and other risks resulting from
    MetLife s participation in a securities lending program and
    other transactions; (vi) exposure to financial and capital
    market risk; (vii) changes in general economic conditions,
    including the performance of financial markets and interest
    rates, which may affect the Company s ability to raise
    capital, generate fee income and market-related revenue and
    finance statutory reserve requirements and may require the
    Company to pledge collateral or make payments related to
    declines in value of specified assets; (viii) defaults on
    the Company s mortgage and consumer loans;
    (ix) investment losses and defaults, and changes to
    investment valuations; (x) impairments of goodwill and
    realized losses or market value impairments to illiquid assets;
    (xi) unanticipated changes in industry trends;
    (xii) heightened competition, including with respect to
    pricing, entry of new competitors, consolidation of
    distributors, the development of new products by new and
    existing competitors and for personnel;
    (xiii) discrepancies between actual claims experience and
    assumptions used in setting prices for the Company s
    products and establishing the liabilities for the Company s
    obligations for future policy benefits and claims;
    (xiv) discrepancies between actual experience and
    assumptions used in establishing liabilities related to other
    contingencies or obligations; (xv) ineffectiveness of risk
    management policies and procedures, including with respect to
    guaranteed benefit riders (which may be affected by fair value
    adjustments arising from changes in our

72

Table of Contents   

own credit spread) on certain of the Company s variable
    annuity products; (xvi) increased expenses relating to
    pension and post-retirement benefit plans,
    (xvii) catastrophe losses; (xviii) changes in
    assumptions related to deferred policy acquisition costs
    ( DAC ), value of business acquired ( VOBA )
    or goodwill; (xix) downgrades in MetLife, Inc. s and
    its affiliates  claims paying ability, financial strength
    or credit ratings; (xx) economic, political, currency and
    other risks relating to the Company s international
    operations; (xx) availability and effectiveness of
    reinsurance or indemnification arrangements,
    (xxi) regulatory, legislative or tax changes that may
    affect the cost of, or demand for, the Company s products
    or services; (xxii) changes in accounting standards,
    practices
     and/or 
    policies; (xxiii) adverse results or other consequences
    from litigation, arbitration or regulatory investigations;
    (xxiv) deterioration in the experience of the  closed
    block  established in connection with the reorganization of
    MLIC; (xxv) the effects of business disruption or economic
    contraction due to terrorism, other hostilities, or natural
    catastrophes; (xxvi) MetLife s ability to identify and
    consummate on successful terms any future acquisitions, and to
    successfully integrate acquired businesses with minimal
    disruption; (xxvii) MetLife, Inc. s primary reliance,
    as a holding company, on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet
    debt payment obligations and the applicable regulatory
    restrictions on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such
    dividends; and (xxviii) other risks and uncertainties
    described from time to time in MetLife, Inc. s filings with
    the SEC.

MetLife, Inc. does not undertake any obligation to publicly
    correct or update any forward-looking statement if MetLife, Inc.
    later becomes aware that such statement is not likely to be
    achieved. Please consult any further disclosures MetLife, Inc.
    makes on related subjects in reports to the SEC.

Executive
    Summary  

MetLife is a leading provider of individual insurance, employee
    benefits and financial services with operations throughout the
    United States and the regions of Latin America, Europe, and Asia
    Pacific. Through its subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife offers
    life insurance, annuities, automobile and homeowners insurance,
    retail banking and other financial services to individuals, as
    well as group insurance and retirement   savings
    products and services to corporations and other institutions.
    Subsequent to the disposition of Reinsurance Group of America,
    Incorporated ( RGA ) and the elimination of the
    Reinsurance segment, MetLife is organized into four operating
    segments: Institutional, Individual, Auto   Home and
    International, as well as Corporate   Other.

Year
    Ended December 31, 2008 compared with the Year Ended
    December 31, 2007   

The Company reported $3,084 million in net income available
    to common shareholders and net income per diluted common share
    of $4.14 for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to
    $4,180 million in net income available to common
    shareholders and net income per diluted common share of $5.48
    for the year ended December 31, 2007. Net income available
    to common shareholders decreased by $1,096 million, or 26%,
    for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the prior
    year.

The decrease in net income available to common shareholders was
    principally due to an increase in losses from discontinued
    operations of $516 million. This was primarily the result
    of the split-off of substantially all of the Company s
    interest in RGA in September 2008 whereby stockholders of the
    Company were offered the opportunity to exchange their shares of
    MetLife, Inc. common stock for shares of RGA Class B common
    stock based upon a pre-determined exchange ratio.

The decrease in net income available to common shareholders was
    also driven by an increase in other expenses of
    $972 million, net of income tax. The increase in other
    expenses was due to:

Higher DAC amortization in the Individual segment related to
    lower expected future gross profits due to separate account
    balance decreases resulting from recent market declines, higher
    net investment gains primarily due to net derivative gains and
    the reduction on expected cumulative earnings of the closed
    block partially offset by a reduction in actual earnings of the
    closed block and changes in assumptions used to estimate future
    gross profits and margins. In addition, there is further offset
    in the Institutional segment due to a charge associated with the
    adoption of
     SOP 05-1 
    in the prior year.

An increase in corporate expenses primarily related to an
    enterprise-wide cost reduction and revenue enhancement
    initiative. As a result of a strategic review begun in 2007, the
    Company launched an enterprise

73

Table of Contents   

initiative called Operational Excellence. This initiative began
    in April 2008 and management expects the initiative to be fully
    implemented by December 31, 2010. This initiative is
    focused on reducing complexity, leveraging scale, increasing
    productivity, improving the effectiveness of the Company s
    operations and providing a foundation for future growth. The
    Company recognized within Corporate   Other during the
    current period an initial accrual for post-employment related
    expenses.

Higher legal costs in Corporate   Other principally
    driven by costs associated with the commutation of three
    asbestos insurance policies and higher expenses in the
    Institutional and International segments as well as
    Corporate   Other associated with business growth and
    higher corporate support expenses.

Higher expenses in Corporate   Other relating to
    increased compensation, rent, and mortgage loan origination
    costs and servicing expenses associated with two acquisitions by
    MetLife Bank in 2008.

Premiums, fees and other revenues increased by
    $2,085 million, net of income tax, across all of the
    Company s operating segments but most notably within the
    Institutional and International segments due to business growth.
    Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends
    increased commensurately by $2,393 million, net of income
    tax; however, policyholder benefits and claims were also
    adversely impacted by an increase in catastrophe losses in the
    Auto   Home segment, a charge within the Institutional
    segment resulting from a liability adjustment in the group
    annuity business, and business growth.

Net investment losses decreased by $1,554 million, net of
    income tax, to a gain of $1,178 million, net of income tax,
    for the year ended December 31, 2008 from a loss of
    $376 million, net of income tax, for the comparable 2007
    period. The decrease in net investment losses is due to an
    increase in gains on derivatives partially offset by losses
    primarily on fixed maturity and equity securities. Derivative
    gains were driven by gains on freestanding derivatives that were
    partially offset by losses on embedded derivatives primarily
    associated with variable annuity riders. Gains on freestanding
    derivatives increased by $4,225 million, net of income tax,
    and were primarily driven by: i) gains on certain interest
    rate swaps, floors and swaptions which were economic hedges of
    certain investment assets and liabilities, ii) gains from
    foreign currency derivatives primarily due to the
    U.S. dollar strengthening as well as, iii) gains
    primarily from equity options, financial futures, and interest
    rate swaps hedging the embedded derivatives. The gains on these
    equity options, financial futures, and interest rate swaps
    substantially offset the change in the underlying embedded
    derivative liability that is hedged by these derivatives. Losses
    on the embedded derivatives increased by $1,514 million,
    net of income tax, and were driven by declining interest rates
    and poor equity market performance throughout the year. These
    embedded derivative losses include a $1,946 million, net of
    income tax, gain resulting from the effect of the widening of
    the Company s own credit spread which is required to be
    used in the valuation of these variable annuity rider embedded
    derivatives under SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value
    Measurements  ( SFAS 157 ), which became
    effective January 1, 2008. The remaining change in net
    investment losses of $1,157 million, net of income tax, is
    principally attributable to an increase in losses on fixed
    maturity and equity securities, and, to a lesser degree, an
    increase in losses on mortgage and consumer loans and other
    limited partnerships offset by an increase in foreign currency
    transaction gains. The increase in losses on fixed maturity and
    equity securities is primarily attributable to an increase in
    impairments associated with financial services industry holdings
    which experienced losses as a result of bankruptcies, FDIC
    receivership, and Federal government assisted capital infusion
    transactions in the third and fourth quarters of 2008. Losses on
    fixed maturity and equity securities were also driven by an
    increase in credit related impairments on communication and
    consumer sector security holdings, losses on asset-backed
    securities as well as an increase in losses on fixed maturity
    security holdings where the Company either lacked the intent to
    hold, or due to extensive credit widening, the Company was
    uncertain of its intent to hold these fixed maturity securities
    for a period of time sufficient to allow recovery of the market
    value decline.

Net investment income decreased by $1,149 million, or 10%,
    net of income tax, to $10,592 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2008 from $11,741 million for the
    comparable 2007 period. Management attributes
    $2,042 million, net of income tax, of this change to a
    decrease in yields, partially offset by an increase of
    $893 million due to growth in average invested assets.
    Average invested assets are calculated on a cost basis without
    unrealized gains and losses. The decrease in net investment
    income attributable to lower yields was primarily due to lower
    returns on other limited partnership interests, real estate
    joint ventures, short-term investments, fixed maturity
    securities, and mortgage loans, partially offset by improved
    securities lending results. Management anticipates that

74

Table of Contents   

the significant volatility in the equity, real estate and credit
    markets will continue in 2009 which could continue to impact net
    investment income and yields on other limited partnerships and
    real estate joint ventures. Net investment income increased due
    to an increase in average invested assets, on an amortized cost
    basis, primarily within short-term investments, other invested
    assets including derivatives, mortgage loans, other limited
    partnership interests, and real estate joint ventures.

A decrease in interest credited to policyholder account balances
    of $438 million, net of income tax, resulted from a decline
    in average crediting rates, which was largely due to the impact
    of lower short-term interest rates in the current period, offset
    by an increase from growth in the average policyholder account
    balance, primarily the result of continued growth in the global
    GIC and funding agreement products all of which occurred within
    the Institutional segment. There was also a decrease in interest
    credited in the International segment as a result of a reduction
    in unit-linked policyholder liabilities reflecting the losses of
    the trading portfolio backing these liabilities.

Year
    Ended December 31, 2007 compared with the Year Ended
    December 31, 2006   

The Company reported $4,180 million in net income available
    to common shareholders and earnings per diluted common share of
    $5.48 for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to
    $6,159 million in net income available to common
    shareholders and earnings per diluted common share of $7.99 for
    the year ended December 31, 2006. Net income available to
    common shareholders decreased by $1,979 million, or 32%,
    for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the 2006
    period.

The decrease in net income available to common shareholders was
    primarily due to a decrease in income from discontinued
    operations of $3,168 million, net of income tax. This
    decrease in income from discontinued operations was principally
    driven by a gain on the sale of the Peter Cooper Village and
    Stuyvesant Town properties in Manhattan, New York, that was
    recognized during the year ended December 31, 2006. Also
    contributing to the decrease was lower net investment income and
    net investment gains (losses) from discontinued operations
    related to real estate properties sold or held-for-sale during
    the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year
    ended December 31, 2006. Lower income from discontinued
    operations related to the sale of MetLife Insurance Limited
    ( MetLife Australia ) annuities and pension businesses
    to a third party in the third quarter of 2007 and lower income
    from discontinued operations related to the sale of SSRM
    Holdings, Inc. ( SSRM ) resulting from a
    reduction in additional proceeds from the sale received during
    the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year
    December 31, 2006. This decrease was partially offset by
    higher income from discontinued operations related to RGA, which
    was reclassified to discontinued operations in the third quarter
    of 2008 as a result of a tax-free split-off. RGA s income
    was higher in 2007, primarily due to an increase in premiums,
    net of an increase in policyholder benefits and claims, due to
    additional in-force business from facultative and automatic
    treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business
    combined with an increase in net investment income, net of
    interest credited to policyholder account balances, due to
    higher invested assets. These increases in RGA s income
    were offset by an increase in net investment losses resulting
    from a decline in the estimated fair value of embedded
    derivatives associated with the reinsurance of annuity products
    on a funds withheld basis.

The decrease in net income available to common shareholders was
    also driven by an increase in other expenses of
    $580 million, net of income tax. The increase in other
    expenses was primarily due to higher amortization of deferred
    policy acquisition costs ( DAC ) resulting from
    business growth, lower net investment losses in the current year
    and the net impact of revisions to management s assumption
    used to determine estimated gross profits and margins in both
    years. In addition, other expenses increased due to higher
    compensation, higher interest expense on debt and interest on
    tax contingencies, the net impact of revisions to certain
    liabilities in both periods, asset write-offs, higher general
    spending and expenses related to growth initiatives, partially
    offset by lower legal costs and integration costs incurred in
    2006.

The net effect of increases in premiums, fees and other revenues
    of $1,046 million, net of income tax, across all of the
    Company s operating segments and increases in policyholder
    benefit and claims and policyholder dividends of
    $610 million, net of income tax, was attributable to
    overall business growth and increased net income available to
    common shareholders.

75

Table of Contents   

Net investment income increased by $1,180 million, net of
    income tax, or 11%, to $11,741 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2007 from $10,561 million for the
    comparable 2006 period. Management attributes $700 million
    of this increase to growth in the average asset base and
    $480 million to an increase in yields. Growth in the
    average asset base was primarily within fixed maturity
    securities, mortgage loans, real estate joint ventures and other
    limited partnership interests. Higher yields was primarily due
    to higher returns on fixed maturity securities, other limited
    partnership interests excluding hedge funds, equity securities
    and improved securities lending results, partially offset by
    lower returns on real estate joint ventures, cash, cash
    equivalents and short-term investments, hedge funds and mortgage
    loans.

Net investment losses decreased by $522 million to a loss
    of $376 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
    from a loss of $898 million for the comparable 2006 period.
    The decrease in net investment losses was primarily due to a
    reduction of losses on fixed maturity securities resulting
    principally from the 2006 portfolio repositioning in a rising
    interest rate environment, increased gains from asset-based
    foreign currency transactions due to a decline in the
    U.S. dollar year over year against several major currencies
    and increased gains on equity securities, partially offset by
    increased losses from the mark-to-market on derivatives and
    reduced gains on real estate and real estate joint ventures.

An increase in interest credited to policyholder account
    balances associated with an increase in the average policyholder
    account balance decreased net income available to common
    shareholders by $365 million, net of income tax.

The remainder of the variance is due to the change in effective
    tax rates between periods.

Consolidated
    Company Outlook   

The marketplace is still reacting and adapting to the unusual
    economic events that took place over the past year and
    management expects the volatility in the financial markets to
    continue in 2009. As a result, management expects a modest
    increase, on a constant exchange rate basis, in premiums, fees
    and other revenues in 2009, with mixed results across the
    various businesses. While the Company continues to gain market
    share in a number of product lines, premiums, fees and other
    revenues have and may continue to be impacted by the
    U.S. and global recession, which may be reflected by, but
    is not limited to:

Lower fee income from separate account businesses, including
    variable annuity and life products in Individual Business.

A potential reduction in payroll linked revenue from
    Institutional group insurance customers.

A decline in demand for certain International and Institutional
    retirement   savings products.

A decrease in Auto   Home premiums resulting from a
    depressed housing market and auto industry.

With the expectation of the turbulent financial markets
    continuing in 2009, management expects continued downward
    pressure on net income, specifically net investment income, as
    management expects lower returns from other limited
    partnerships, real estate joint ventures, and securities
    lending. In addition, the resulting impact of the financial
    markets on net investment gains (losses) and unrealized
    investment gains (losses) can and will vary greatly and
    therefore, it is difficult to predict. Also difficult to
    determine is the impact of own credit, as it varies
    significantly and this exposure is not hedged.

Certain insurance-related liabilities, specifically those
    associated with guarantees, are tied to market performance,
    which in times of depressed investment markets may require
    management to establish additional liabilities. However, many of
    the risks associated with these guarantees are hedged. The
    turbulent financial markets, sustained over a period of time,
    may also necessitate management to strengthen insurance
    liabilities that are not associated with guarantees. Management
    does not anticipate significant changes in the underlying trends
    that drive underwriting results, with the possible exception of
    certain trends in the Auto   Home and disability
    businesses.

Certain expenses may increase due to initiatives such as
    Operational Excellence. Other charges are also possible as the
    combination of the downward pressure on net income coupled with
    the expectations of the financial markets, may necessitate a
    review of goodwill impairment, specifically within the
    Individual Business. The unusual

76

Table of Contents   

financial market conditions will also likely cause an increase
    in the Company s pension-related expense and may cause an
    increase in DAC amortization.

In response to the challenges presented by the unusual economic
    environment, management continues to focus on disciplined
    underwriting, pricing, hedging strategies, as well as focused
    expense management.

Institutional
    Business Outlook   

Management expects continued growth in premium, fees, and other
    revenues across the majority of the Institutional businesses.
    Revenues in many of the businesses can fluctuate based, in part,
    on the covered payroll of customers or changes in the amount of
    coverage they have purchased for current or former employees. As
    a result, in periods of high unemployment, revenue may be
    impacted. Revenue may also be negatively impacted as a result of
    customers  reduction of coverage stemming from benefit plan
    changes, the elimination of retiree coverage or customer-related
    bankruptcies. Revenues in the retirement   savings
    business may experience some pressure as the demand for certain
    of these products can decline during periods of volatile credit
    and investment markets.

With the expectation of the turbulent financial markets
    continuing in 2009, management expects to see lower earnings
    resulting from depressed levels of net investment income,
    specifically as previously discussed in the consolidated
    outlook, which will put downward pressure on earnings from
    interest margins in the spread-related businesses. If there is
    an extended period of sustained, low long-term market interest
    rates, it is possible that strengthening certain long-term
    liabilities could be necessary. Management does not expect to
    see significant changes in the underlying trends that drive
    underwriting results, with the possible exception of the
    disability business. Management thinks the level of disability
    claims is correlated to the unemployment rate and therefore
    underwriting results in this business may be impacted if the
    recession continues to deepen and there is a continued rise in
    the unemployment rate.

In 2009, management will continue to focus on disciplined
    underwriting, pricing and aggressively managing expenses, while
    making deliberate investments in certain areas that Management
    expects will create long-term growth opportunities. The unusual
    financial market conditions previously mentioned, will also
    likely cause an increase in the Company s pension-related
    expense.

Individual
    Business Outlook   

Management expects 2009 premium, fees and other revenues to be
    down slightly compared to 2008 results. Individual Business
    experienced a significant decline in asset-based fees in annuity
    and variable life products in the second half of 2008 due to
    equity market declines. This depressed level of fee revenue is
    expected to continue in 2009. However, Individual Business
    experienced a significant increase in fourth quarter 2008 fixed
    annuity sales, which management believes was partially the
    result of consumers recognizing the strength of MetLife s
    guarantees. While management believes fixed annuity sales will
    continue to be strong, future sales of all products could be
    impacted as the financial services industry adjusts to the
    economic environment and as anticipated industry consolidation
    occurs.

Management believes the investment and capital markets may
    continue to be turbulent in 2009, which would continue to exert
    downward pressure on net income, specifically net investment
    income as previously discussed in the consolidated outlook.

Certain annuity and life benefit guarantees are tied to market
    performance, which in times of depressed investment markets, may
    require management to establish additional liabilities. However,
    many of the risks associated with these guarantees are hedged.
    These pressures might result in potential modifications to
    product pricing strategies associated with acceptable returns
    for the underlying risks being covered.

Other charges are also possible as the combination of the
    downward pressure on net income coupled with the expectations of
    the financial markets, may necessitate a review of goodwill
    impairment. The unusual financial market conditions will also
    likely cause an increase in the Company s pension-related
    expense and may cause an increase in DAC amortization.

77

Table of Contents   

Management believes that its disciplined approach to
    underwriting, pricing, hedging and investment strategies will
    further strengthen MetLife s industry leadership position
    and mitigate the impacts from the ongoing uncertainty in the
    investment markets. Additionally, Management continues to focus
    on expense management by driving efficiency and productivity
    gains within the distribution and home office organizations.

International
    Business Outlook   

Although management expects that premiums, fees and other
    revenues, on a constant exchange rate basis, will continue to
    increase across the regions in 2009, there is a risk of lower
    product demand as well as higher policy surrenders if the trend
    of higher unemployment, decreased individual income levels, and
    lower corporate earnings continues in 2009. To address this,
    various distribution channels and customer service operations
    initiatives are being implemented to expand relationships with
    existing distributors, develop new channel outlets and improve
    persistency management. In addition, market conditions have and
    may continue to cause an increase in the cost of related hedging
    programs and may result in a decrease in fee income from lower
    assets under management. Furthermore, the responses of
    governments and policymakers, in the countries in which the
    business operates, to the economic circumstances could have an
    unpredictable impact on results. Continued volatility in foreign
    currency exchange rates may adversely impact reported premiums,
    fees and other revenues as well as net income. Management
    continues to evaluate strategies to mitigate this risk.

Management expects continued turbulence in global capital
    markets during 2009, which may create downward pressure on net
    income, specifically net investment income as previously
    discussed in the consolidated outlook.

In the Asia region, certain annuity benefit guarantees are tied
    to market performance, which in times of depressed investment
    markets, may require management to establish additional
    liabilities. This exposure may result in modifications to our
    product pricing strategies in order to maintain acceptable
    returns for the underwriting risks being covered. The
    sufficiency of certain reserves in the Asia region is sensitive
    to interest rates and other related assumptions. Adverse changes
    in key assumptions for interest rates, exchange rates, mortality
    and morbidity levels or lapse rates could lead to a need to
    strengthen reserves.

Management continues to take a disciplined approach toward
    expense management, however, management will continue to invest
    in infrastructure and distribution improvements where such
    spending will enhance growth. The unusual financial market
    conditions may cause an increase in DAC amortization. Management
    believes that the ability to deliver quality risk  
    protection and retirement   savings products to the
    markets, coupled with the Company s financial strength and
    strong risk management expertise, will help achieve continued
    growth in this challenging environment.

Management continues to take a disciplined approach toward
    expense management. Operational excellence initiatives
    undertaken by management in 2008 and planned for 2009 will
    create expense efficiencies, however, management will continue
    to invest in infrastructure and distribution improvements where
    such spending will enhance growth. Management believes that the
    ability to deliver quality risk   protection and
    retirement   savings products to the markets, coupled
    with the Company s financial strength and strong risk
    management expertise, will help achieve continued growth in this
    challenging environment.

Auto  
    Home Outlook   

Management expects premiums for the Auto   Home segment to
    grow slightly in 2009. The key sales triggers of new and
    existing home sales and auto sales dropped precipitously during
    2008, contributing to large declines in new Homeowner and Auto
    policies written during 2008. However, these declines began to
    slow late in 2008. New business sales are expected to rebound
    modestly for both Auto and Homeowners, assuming overall economic
    conditions improve, particularly as credit availability returns,
    and as a combination of various marketing and sales initiatives
    have been implemented. Retention ratios are expected to remain
    flat, or improve slightly, as specific underwriting initiatives
    to control exposures to catastrophe events were completed in the
    fourth quarter of 2008. Net premiums written for 2009 are
    expected to increase modestly with slightly larger increases in
    Auto premiums written and slightly smaller increases in
    Homeowners and other. A portion of this increase is expected to
    result from increases in exposures with the remaining change
    coming from increased average premium per policy.

78

Table of Contents   

Net investment income is also expected to be slightly lower in
    2009, as previously discussed in the consolidated outlook, and
    cash from operations and maturing investments is reinvested at
    slightly lower rates. In addition, Management expects the
    expense ratio to decline slightly as Management continues to
    manage operating expenses.

Underwriting margins for both Auto and Homeowners are expected
    to remain under pressure as some carriers have been willing to
    accept higher combined ratios in an attempt to grow written
    premium. Auto results benefited primarily from lower severities
    during 2008. A reduction in miles driven, initially tied to
    higher gasoline prices and later in the year to the general
    economic slowdown, contributed to these improvements. A
    continuation of the trend towards lower frequencies is expected
    for 2009 with higher severities expected to more than offset the
    gains from frequencies. Management believes this will result in
    a slightly higher loss and loss adjusting expense ratio for
    2009, compared to the same ratio for 2008, excluding prior year
    loss development. Homeowner margins for 2008, excluding
    catastrophes, were impacted by higher claims frequencies,
    primarily related to greater non-catastrophe weather-related
    losses, offset by lower severities. In 2009, a return to more
    normal weather patterns is expected and management believes will
    result in lower frequencies in 2009 partially offset by higher
    severities, resulting in a small expected drop in the Homeowner
    loss and loss adjusting ratio, excluding catastrophes, as
    compared to 2008. The unusual financial market conditions,
    previously discussed, will also likely cause an increase in the
    Company s pension-related expense. Management continues to
    aggressively look for ways to control costs in all other areas
    so it may maintain an appropriate expense ratio.

Corporate  
    Other Outlook   

Management believes the investment and capital markets may
    continue to be turbulent in 2009, which would continue to exert
    downward pressure on net investment income, as previously
    discussed in the consolidated outlook, and earnings on excess
    surplus equity. Management expects that investment income could
    be adversely impacted by a continuation of increased liquidity
    levels due to the uncertain operating environment and lack of
    suitable investment opportunities Current liquidity levels may
    position us to take advantage of any economic recovery,
    mitigating the impact that these levels have on net investment
    income.

Management does not expect a significant increase in interest
    expense. A portion of the Company s debt has a variable
    interest rate and the associated interest expense will fluctuate
    with market rates. However, this expense has a corresponding
    investment that is also tied to variable rates and therefore,
    generally should minimize the impact to net income. In addition,
    settlements for asbestos claims and other potential legal claims
    may have an adverse impact on net income.

Management expects that the MetLife Bank acquisitions completed
    in 2008 will be accretive to 2009 earnings with additional
    investment income and higher premiums, fees, and other income,
    partially offset with increased interest and operating expenses.
    MetLife Bank could be impacted by changes in the residential
    loan market.

Acquisitions
    and Dispositions  

Disposition
    of Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated   

On September 12, 2008, the Company completed a tax-free
    split-off of its majority-owned subsidiary, RGA. The Company and
    RGA entered into a recapitalization and distribution agreement,
    pursuant to which the Company agreed to divest substantially all
    of its 52% interest in RGA to the Company s stockholders.
    The split-off was effected through the following:

A recapitalization of RGA common stock into two classes of
    common stock   RGA Class A common stock and RGA
    Class B common stock. Pursuant to the terms of the
    recapitalization, each outstanding share of RGA common stock,
    including the 32,243,539 shares of RGA common stock
    beneficially owned by the Company and its subsidiaries, was
    reclassified as one share of RGA Class A common stock.
    Immediately thereafter, the Company and its subsidiaries
    exchanged 29,243,539 shares of its RGA Class A common
    stock   which represented all of the RGA Class A
    common stock beneficially owned by the Company and its
    subsidiaries other than 3,000,000 shares of RGA
    Class A common stock   with RGA for
    29,243,539 shares of RGA Class B common stock.

79

Table of Contents   

An exchange offer, pursuant to which the Company offered to
    acquire MetLife common stock from its stockholders in exchange
    for all of its 29,243,539 shares of RGA Class B common
    stock. The exchange ratio was determined based upon a
    ratio   as more specifically described in the exchange
    offering document   of the value of the MetLife and
    RGA shares during the
     three-day 
    period prior to the closing of the exchange offer. The
    3,000,000 shares of the RGA Class A common stock were
    not subject to the tax-free exchange.

As a result of completion of the recapitalization and exchange
    offer, the Company received from MetLife stockholders
    23,093,689 shares of the Company s common stock with a
    market value of $1,318 million and, in exchange, delivered
    29,243,539 shares of RGA s Class B common stock
    with a net book value of $1,716 million. The resulting loss
    on disposition, inclusive of transaction costs of
    $60 million, was $458 million. The
    3,000,000 shares of RGA Class A common stock retained
    by the Company are marketable equity securities which do not
    constitute significant continuing involvement in the operations
    of RGA; accordingly, they have been classified within equity
    securities in the consolidated financial statements of the
    Company at a cost basis of $157 million which is equivalent
    to the net book value of the shares. The cost basis will be
    adjusted to estimated fair value at each subsequent reporting
    date. The Company has agreed to dispose of the remaining shares
    of RGA within the next five years. In connection with the
    Company s agreement to dispose of the remaining shares, the
    Company also recognized, in its provision for income tax on
    continuing operations, a deferred tax liability of
    $16 million which represents the difference between the
    book and taxable basis of the remaining investment in RGA.

The impact of the disposition of the Company s investment
    in RGA is reflected in the Company s consolidated financial
    statements as discontinued operations. The disposition of RGA
    results in the elimination of the Company s Reinsurance
    segment. The Reinsurance segment was comprised of the results of
    RGA, which at disposition became discontinued operations of
    Corporate   Other, and the interest on economic
    capital, which has been reclassified to the continuing
    operations of Corporate   Other.

Disposition
    of Texas Life Insurance Company   

MetLife, Inc. has entered into an agreement to sell Cova
    Corporation, the parent company of Texas Life Insurance Company
    in early 2009. As a result of the sale agreement, the Company
    recognized gains from discontinued operations of
    $37 million, net of income tax, in the fourth quarter of
    2008. The gain was comprised of recognition of tax benefits of
    $65 million relating to the excess of outside tax basis of
    Cova over its financial reporting basis offset by other than
    temporary impairments of $28 million, net of income tax,
    relating to Cova s investments. The Company has
    reclassified the assets and liabilities of Cova as held-for-sale
    and its operations into discontinued operations for all periods
    presented in the consolidated financial statements.

2008
    Acquisitions   

During 2008, the Company made five acquisitions for
    $783 million. As a result of these acquisitions,
    MetLife s Institutional segment increased its product
    offering of dental and vision benefit plans, MetLife Bank within
    Corporate   Other entered the mortgage origination and
    servicing business and the International segment increased its
    presence in Mexico and Brazil. The acquisitions were each
    accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, and
    accordingly, commenced being included in the operating results
    of the Company upon their respective closing dates. Total
    consideration paid by the Company for these acquisitions
    consisted of $763 million in cash and $20 million in
    transaction costs. The net fair value of assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed totaled $527 million, resulting in
    goodwill of $256 million. Goodwill increased by
    $122 million, $73 million and $61 million in the
    International segment, Institutional segment and
    Corporate   Other, respectively. The goodwill is
    deductible for tax purposes. Value of customer relationships
    acquired ( VOCRA ), VOBA and other intangibles
    increased by $137 million, $7 million and
    $6 million, respectively, as a result of these acquisitions.

Other
    Acquisitions and Dispositions   

On June 28, 2007, the Company acquired the remaining 50%
    interest in a joint venture in Hong Kong, MetLife Fubon Limited
    ( MetLife Fubon ), for $56 million in cash,
    resulting in MetLife Fubon becoming a consolidated subsidiary of
    the Company. The transaction was treated as a step acquisition,
    and at June 30, 2007, total assets and liabilities of
    MetLife Fubon of $839 million and $735 million,
    respectively, were included in the Company s

80

Table of Contents   

consolidated balance sheet. The Company s investment for
    the initial 50% interest in MetLife Fubon was $48 million.
    The Company used the equity method of accounting for such
    investment in MetLife Fubon. The Company s share of the
    joint venture s results for the six months ended
    June 30, 2007, was a loss of $3 million. The fair
    value of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in the
    step acquisition at June 30, 2007, was $427 million
    and $371 million, respectively. No additional goodwill was
    recorded as a part of the step acquisition. As a result of this
    acquisition, additional VOBA and VODA of $45 million and
    $5 million, respectively, were recorded and both have a
    weighted average amortization period of 16 years. In June
    2008, the Company revised the valuation of certain long-term
    liabilities, VOBA, and VODA based on new information received.
    As a result, the fair value of acquired insurance liabilities
    and VOBA were reduced by $5 million and $12 million,
    respectively, offset by an increase in VODA of $7 million.
    The revised VOBA and VODA have a weighted average amortization
    period of 11 years.

On June 1, 2007, the Company completed the sale of its
    Bermuda insurance subsidiary, MetLife International Insurance,
    Ltd. ( MLII ), to a third party for $33 million
    in cash consideration, resulting in a gain upon disposal of
    $3 million, net of income tax. The net assets of MLII at
    disposal were $27 million. A liability of $1 million
    was recorded with respect to a guarantee provided in connection
    with this disposition.

On July 1, 2005, the Company completed the acquisition of
    Travelers for $12.1 billion. The acquisition was accounted
    for using the purchase method of accounting. The net fair value
    of assets acquired and liabilities assumed totaled
    $7.8 billion, resulting in goodwill of $4.3 billion.
    The initial consideration paid by the Company in 2005 for the
    acquisition consisted of $10.9 billion in cash and
    22,436,617 shares of the Company s common stock with a
    market value of $1.0 billion to Citigroup and
    $100 million in other transaction costs. The Company
    revised the purchase price as a result of the finalization by
    both parties of their review of the June 30, 2005 financial
    statements and final resolution as to the interpretation of the
    provisions of the acquisition agreement which resulted in a
    payment of additional consideration of $115 million by the
    Company to Citigroup in 2006.

Industry
    Trends  

The Company s segments continue to be influenced by a
    variety of trends that affect the industry.

Financial and Economic Environment.   Our
    results of operations are materially affected by conditions in
    the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in
    the United States and elsewhere around the world. The stress
    experienced by global capital markets that began in the second
    half of 2007 has continued and substantially increased; since
    mid- September 2008, the global financial markets have
    experienced unprecedented disruption, adversely affecting the
    business environment in general, as well as the financial
    services industry, in particular. There is consensus in the
    economic community that the U.S. economy is in a recession.

Throughout 2008 and continuing in 2009, Congress, the Federal
    Reserve Bank of New York, the U.S. Treasury and other
    agencies of the Federal government took a number of increasingly
    aggressive actions (in addition to continuing a series of
    interest rate reductions that began in the second half of
    2007) intended to provide liquidity to financial
    institutions and markets, to avert a loss of investor confidence
    in particular troubled institutions and to prevent or contain
    the spread of the financial crisis. How and to whom the
    U.S. Treasury distributes amounts available under the
    governmental programs could have the effect of supporting some
    aspects of the financial services industry more than others or
    provide advantages to some of our competitors. Governments in
    many of the foreign markets in which MetLife operates have also
    responded to address market imbalances and have taken meaningful
    steps intended to restore market confidence. We cannot predict
    whether the U.S. or foreign governments will establish
    additional governmental programs or the impact any additional
    measures or existing programs will have on the financial
    markets, whether on the levels of volatility currently being
    experienced, the levels of lending by financial institutions the
    prices buyers are willing to pay for financial assets or
    otherwise. See  Business   Regulation  
    Governmental Responses to Extraordinary Market Conditions. 

The economic crisis and the resulting recession have had and
    will continue to have an adverse effect on the financial results
    of companies in the financial services industry, including the
    Company. The declining financial markets and economic conditions
    have negatively impacted our investment income and the demand
    for and the cost and profitability of certain of our products,
    including variable annuities and guarantee riders. See
       Results of Operations  and
       Liquidity and Capital Resources  
    Extraordinary Market Conditions.

81

Table of Contents   

Demographics.   In the coming decade, a key
    driver shaping the actions of the life insurance industry will
    be the rising income protection, wealth accumulation and needs
    of the retiring Baby Boomers. As a result of increasing
    longevity, retirees will need to accumulate sufficient savings
    to finance retirements that may span 30 or more years. Helping
    the Baby Boomers to accumulate assets for retirement and
    subsequently to convert these assets into retirement income
    represents an opportunity for the life insurance industry.

Life insurers are well positioned to address the Baby
    Boomers  rapidly increasing need for savings tools and for
    income protection. The Company believes that, among life
    insurers, those with strong brands, high financial strength
    ratings and broad distribution, are best positioned to
    capitalize on the opportunity to offer income protection
    products to Baby Boomers.

Moreover, the life insurance industry s products and the
    needs they are designed to address are complex. The Company
    believes that individuals approaching retirement age will need
    to seek information to plan for and manage their retirements and
    that, in the workplace, as employees take greater responsibility
    for their benefit options and retirement planning, they will
    need information about their possible individual needs. One of
    the challenges for the life insurance industry will be the
    delivery of this information in a cost effective manner.

Competitive Pressures.   The life insurance
    industry remains highly competitive. The product development and
    product life-cycles have shortened in many product segments,
    leading to more intense competition with respect to product
    features. Larger companies have the ability to invest in brand
    equity, product development, technology and risk management,
    which are among the fundamentals for sustained profitable growth
    in the life insurance industry. In addition, several of the
    industry s products can be quite homogeneous and subject to
    intense price competition. Sufficient scale, financial strength
    and financial flexibility are becoming prerequisites for
    sustainable growth in the life insurance industry. Larger market
    participants tend to have the capacity to invest in additional
    distribution capability and the information technology needed to
    offer the superior customer service demanded by an increasingly
    sophisticated industry client base. We believe that the
    turbulence in financial markets that began in the latter half of
    2008, its impact on the capital position of many competitors,
    and subsequent actions by regulators and rating agencies have
    highlighted financial strength as the most significant
    differentiator from the perspective of customers and certain
    distributors. In addition, the financial market turbulence and
    the economic recession have led many companies in our industry
    to re-examine the pricing and features of the products they
    offer and may lead to consolidation in the life insurance
    industry.

Regulatory Changes.   The life insurance
    industry is regulated at the state level, with some products and
    services also subject to federal regulation. As life insurers
    introduce new and often more complex products, regulators refine
    capital requirements and introduce new reserving standards for
    the life insurance industry. Regulations recently adopted or
    currently under review can potentially impact the reserve and
    capital requirements of the industry. In addition, regulators
    have undertaken market and sales practices reviews of several
    markets or products, including equity-indexed annuities,
    variable annuities and group products. We expect the regulation
    of the financial services industry to receive renewed scrutiny
    as a result of the disruptions in the financial markets in 2008.
    It is possible that significant regulatory reforms could be
    implemented. We cannot predict whether any such reforms will be
    adopted, the form they will take or their effect upon us. We
    also cannot predict how the various government responses to the
    current financial and economic difficulties will affect the
    financial services and insurance industries or the standing of
    particular companies, including our Company, within those
    industries.

Pension Plans.   On August 17, 2006,
    President Bush signed the Pension Protection Act of 2006
    ( PPA ) into law. The PPA is a comprehensive reform of
    defined benefit and defined contribution plan rules. The
    provisions of the PPA may, over time, have a significant impact
    on demand for pension, retirement savings, and lifestyle
    protection products in both the institutional and retail
    markets. While the impact of the PPA is generally expected to be
    positive over time, these changes may have adverse short-term
    effects on the Company s business as plan sponsors may
    react to these changes in a variety of ways as the new rules and
    related regulations begin to take effect. In response to the
    current financial and economic environment, President Bush
    signed into the law the Worker, Retiree and Employer Recovery
    Act (the  Employer Recovery Act ) in December 2008.
    This Act is intended to, among other things, ease the transition
    of certain funding requirements of the PPA for defined benefit
    plans. The financial and economic environment and the enactment
    of the Employer Recovery Act may delay the timing or change the
    nature of qualified plan sponsor actions and, in turn, affect
    the Company s business.

82

Table of Contents   

Summary
    of Critical Accounting Estimates  

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America ( GAAP ) requires management to adopt
    accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that
    affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial
    statements. The most critical estimates include those used in
    determining:

(i) 

the estimated fair value of investments in the absence of quoted
    market values;

(ii) 

investment impairments;

(iii) 

the recognition of income on certain investment entities;

(iv) 

the application of the consolidation rules to certain
    investments;

(v) 

the existence and estimated fair value of embedded derivatives
    requiring bifurcation;

(vi) 

the estimated fair value of and accounting for derivatives;

(vii) 

the capitalization and amortization of DAC and the establishment
    and amortization of VOBA;

(viii) 

the measurement of goodwill and related impairment, if any;

(ix) 

the liability for future policyholder benefits;

(x) 

accounting for income taxes and the valuation of deferred tax
    assets;

(xi) 

accounting for reinsurance transactions;

(xii) 

accounting for employee benefit plans; and

(xiii) 

the liability for litigation and regulatory matters.

The application of purchase accounting requires the use of
    estimation techniques in determining the estimated fair values
    of assets acquired and liabilities assumed   the most
    significant of which relate to the aforementioned critical
    estimates. In applying the Company s accounting policies,
    management makes subjective and complex judgments that
    frequently require estimates about matters that are inherently
    uncertain. Many of these policies, estimates and related
    judgments are common in the insurance and financial services
    industries; others are specific to the Company s businesses
    and operations. Actual results could differ from these estimates.

Fair
    Value   

As described below, certain assets and liabilities are measured
    at estimated fair value on the Company s consolidated
    balance sheets. In addition, these footnotes to the consolidated
    financial statements include disclosures of estimated fair
    values. Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS )
    No. 157, Fair Value Measurements
    ( SFAS 157 ). SFAS 157 defines fair value as
    the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
    transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most
    advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly
    transaction between market participants on the measurement date.
    In many cases, the exit price and the transaction (or entry)
    price will be the same at initial recognition. However, in
    certain cases, the transaction price may not represent fair
    value. Under SFAS 157, fair value of a liability is based
    on the amount that would be paid to transfer a liability to a
    third party with the same credit standing. SFAS 157
    requires that fair value be a market-based measurement in which
    the fair value is determined based on a hypothetical transaction
    at the measurement date, considered from the perspective of a
    market participant. When quoted prices are not used to determine
    fair value, SFAS 157 requires consideration of three broad
    valuation techniques: (i) the market approach,
    (ii) the income approach, and (iii) the cost approach.
    The approaches are not new, but SFAS 157 requires that
    entities determine the most appropriate valuation technique to
    use, given what is being measured and the availability of
    sufficient inputs. SFAS 157 prioritizes the inputs to fair
    valuation techniques and allows for the use of unobservable
    inputs to the extent that observable inputs are not available.
    The Company has categorized its assets and liabilities measured
    at estimated fair value into a three-level hierarchy, based on
    the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation
    technique. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority
    to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or
    liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to
    unobservable inputs (Level 3). An asset

83

Table of Contents   

or liability s classification within the fair value
    hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to
    its valuation. SFAS 157 defines the input levels as follows:

Level 1  

Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets
    or liabilities. The Company defines active markets based on
    average trading volume for equity securities. The size of the
    bid/ask spread is used as an indicator of market activity for
    fixed maturity securities.

Level 2  

Quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are
    observable either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs
    include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities other
    than quoted prices in Level 1; quoted prices in markets
    that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can
    be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market
    data for substantially the full term of the assets or
    liabilities.

Level 3  

Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market
    activity and are significant to the estimated fair value of the
    assets or liabilities. Unobservable inputs reflect the reporting
    entity s own assumptions about the assumptions that market
    participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.
    Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial
    instruments whose values are determined using pricing models,
    discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as
    well as instruments for which the determination of estimated
    fair value requires significant management judgment or
    estimation.

The measurement and disclosures under SFAS 157 in the
    accompanying financial statements and footnotes exclude certain
    items such as nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities
    initially measured at estimated fair value in a business
    combination, reporting units measured at estimated fair value in
    the first step of a goodwill impairment test and
    indefinite-lived intangible assets measured at estimated fair
    value for impairment assessment. The effective date for these
    items was deferred to January 1, 2009.

Prior to adoption of SFAS 157, estimated fair value was
    determined based solely upon the perspective of the reporting
    entity. Therefore, methodologies used to determine the estimated
    fair value of certain financial instruments prior to
    January 1, 2008, while being deemed appropriate under
    existing accounting guidance, may not have produced an exit
    value as defined in SFAS 157.

Estimated
    Fair Values of Investments   

The Company s investments in fixed maturity and equity
    securities, investments in trading securities, certain
    short-term investments, most mortgage loans
     held-for-sale, 
    and mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs ) are reported at
    their estimated fair value. In determining the estimated fair
    value of these investments, various methodologies, assumptions
    and inputs are utilized, as described further below.

When available, the estimated fair value of securities is based
    on quoted prices in active markets that are readily and
    regularly obtainable. Generally, these are the most liquid of
    the Company s securities holdings and valuation of these
    securities does not involve management judgment.

When quoted prices in active markets are not available, the
    determination of estimated fair value is based on market
    standard valuation methodologies. The market standard valuation
    methodologies utilized include: discounted cash flow
    methodologies, matrix pricing or other similar techniques. The
    assumptions and inputs in applying these market standard
    valuation methodologies include, but are not limited to:
    interest rates, credit standing of the issuer or counterparty,
    industry sector of the issuer, coupon rate, call provisions,
    sinking fund requirements, maturity, estimated duration and
    management s assumptions regarding liquidity and estimated
    future cash flows. Accordingly, the estimated fair values are
    based on available market information and management s
    judgments about financial instruments.

The significant inputs to the market standard valuation
    methodologies for certain types of securities with reasonable
    levels of price transparency are inputs that are observable in
    the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by
    observable market data. Such observable inputs include
    benchmarking prices for similar assets in active, liquid
    markets, quoted prices in markets that are not active and
    observable yields and spreads in the market.

84

Table of Contents   

When observable inputs are not available, the market standard
    valuation methodologies for determining the estimated fair value
    of certain types of securities that trade infrequently, and
    therefore have little or no price transparency, rely on inputs
    that are significant to the estimated fair value that are not
    observable in the market or cannot be derived principally from
    or corroborated by observable market data. These unobservable
    inputs can be based in large part on management judgment or
    estimation, and cannot be supported by reference to market
    activity. Even though unobservable, these inputs are based on
    assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances and
    consistent with what other market participants would use when
    pricing such securities.

The estimated fair value of residential mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    are determined based on observable pricing of residential
    mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    with similar characteristics, or observable pricing for
    securities backed by similar types of loans, adjusted to convert
    the securities prices to loan prices. Generally, quoted market
    prices are not available. When observable pricing for similar
    loans or securities that are backed by similar loans are not
    available, the estimated fair values of residential mortgage
    loans
     held-for-sale 
    are determined using independent broker quotations, which is
    intended to approximate the amounts that would be received from
    third parties. Certain other mortgages have also been designated
    as
     held-for-sale 
    which are recorded at the lower of amortized cost or estimated
    fair value less expected disposition costs determined on an
    individual loan basis. For these loans, estimated fair value is
    determined using independent broker quotations or, when the loan
    is in foreclosure or otherwise determined to be collateral
    dependent, the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral
    estimated using internal models.

Mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs ) are measured at
    estimated fair value and are either acquired or are generated
    from the sale of originated residential mortgage loans where the
    servicing rights are retained by the Company. The estimated fair
    value of MSRs is principally determined through the use of
    internal discounted cash flow models which utilize various
    assumptions as to discount rates, loan-prepayments, and
    servicing costs. The use of different valuation assumptions and
    inputs as well as assumptions relating to the collection of
    expected cash flows may have a material effect on MSRs estimated
    fair values.

Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by
    rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in
    asset liquidity. The Company s ability to sell securities,
    or the price ultimately realized for these securities, depends
    upon the demand and liquidity in the market and increases the
    use of judgment in determining the estimated fair value of
    certain securities.

Investment
    Impairments   

One of the significant estimates related to
     available-for-sale 
    securities is the evaluation of investments for
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments. The assessment of whether impairments have occurred
    is based on management s
     case-by-case 
    evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in
    estimated fair value. The Company s review of its fixed
    maturity and equity securities for impairments includes an
    analysis of the total gross unrealized losses by three
    categories of securities: (i) securities where the
    estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or
    amortized cost by less than 20%; (ii) securities where the
    estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or
    amortized cost by 20% or more for less than six months; and
    (iii) securities where the estimated fair value had
    declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or
    more for six months or greater. An extended and severe
    unrealized loss position on a fixed maturity security may not
    have any impact on the ability of the issuer to service all
    scheduled interest and principal payments and the Company s
    evaluation of recoverability of all contractual cash flows, as
    well as the Company s ability and intent to hold the
    security, including holding the security until the earlier of a
    recovery in value, or until maturity. In contrast, for certain
    equity securities, greater weight and consideration are given by
    the Company to a decline in estimated fair value and the
    likelihood such estimated fair value decline will recover.

Additionally, management considers a wide range of factors about
    the security issuer and uses its best judgment in evaluating the
    cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security
    and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent
    in management s evaluation of the security are assumptions
    and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future
    earnings potential. Considerations used by the Company in the
    impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to:

(i) 

the length of time and the extent to which the estimated fair
    value has been below cost or amortized cost;

85

Table of Contents   

(ii) 

the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is
    experiencing significant financial difficulties;

(iii) 

the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or
     sub-sector; 

(iv) 

the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed
    geographic locations;

(v) 

the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer,
    series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type
    of loss or has exhausted natural resources;

(vi) 

the Company s ability and intent to hold the security for a
    period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its value
    to an amount equal to or greater than cost or amortized cost;

(vii) 

unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows on mortgage-backed
    and asset-backed securities; and

(viii) 

other subjective factors, including concentrations and
    information obtained from regulators and rating agencies.

The cost of fixed maturity and equity securities is adjusted for
    impairments in value deemed to be other-than temporary in the
    period in which the determination is made. These impairments are
    included within net investment gains (losses) and the cost basis
    of the fixed maturity and equity securities is reduced
    accordingly. The Company does not change the revised cost basis
    for subsequent recoveries in value.

The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments on
    other invested asset classes is highly subjective and is based
    upon the Company s periodic evaluation and assessment of
    known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset
    class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as
    conditions change and new information becomes available.
    Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects
    changes in allowances and impairments in operations as such
    evaluations are revised.

Recognition
    of Income on Certain Investment Entities   

The recognition of income on certain investments (e.g.
    loan-backed securities, including mortgage-backed and
    asset-backed securities, certain structured investment
    transactions, trading securities, etc.) is dependent upon market
    conditions, which could result in prepayments and changes in
    amounts to be earned.

Application
    of the Consolidation Rules to Certain Investments   

Additionally, the Company has invested in certain structured
    transactions that are VIEs under Financial Accounting Standards
    Board ( FASB ) Interpretation ( FIN )
    No. 46(r),  Consolidation of Variable Interest
    Entities   An Interpretation of Accounting Research
    Bulletin No. 51  ( FIN 46(r) ). These
    structured transactions include reinsurance trusts, asset-backed
    securitizations, trust preferred securities, joint ventures,
    limited partnerships and limited liability companies. The
    Company is required to consolidate those VIEs for which it is
    deemed to be the primary beneficiary. The accounting rules under
    FIN 46(r) for the determination of when an entity is a VIE
    and when to consolidate a VIE are complex. The determination of
    the VIE s primary beneficiary requires an evaluation of the
    contractual rights and obligations associated with each party
    involved in the entity, an estimate of the entity s
    expected losses and expected residual returns and the allocation
    of such estimates to each party involved in the entity. FIN
    46(r) defines the primary beneficiary as the entity that will
    absorb a majority of a VIE s expected losses, receive a
    majority of a VIE s expected residual returns if no single
    entity absorbs a majority of expected losses, or both.

When determining the primary beneficiary for structured
    investment products such as asset-backed securitizations and
    collateralized debt obligations, the Company uses historical
    default probabilities based on the credit rating of each issuer
    and other inputs including maturity dates, industry
    classifications and geographic location. Using computational
    algorithms, the analysis simulates default scenarios resulting
    in a range of expected losses and the probability associated
    with each occurrence. For other investment structures such as
    trust preferred securities, joint ventures, limited partnerships
    and limited liability companies, the Company gains an
    understanding of the design of the VIE and generally uses a
    qualitative approach to determine if it is the primary
    beneficiary. This approach includes an analysis of all
    contractual rights and obligations held by all parties including
    profit and loss allocations, repayment or residual value
    guarantees, put and call options and other derivative
    instruments. If the primary beneficiary of a VIE can not be
    identified using this qualitative approach, the Company
    calculates the

86

Table of Contents   

expected losses and expected residual returns of the VIE using a
    probability-weighted cash flow model. The use of different
    methodologies, assumptions and inputs in the determination of
    the primary beneficiary could have a material effect on the
    amounts presented within the consolidated financial statements.

Derivative
    Financial Instruments   

The Company enters into freestanding derivative transactions
    including swaps, forwards, futures and option contracts. The
    Company uses derivatives primarily to manage various risks. The
    risks being managed are variability in cash flows or changes in
    estimated fair values related to financial instruments and
    currency exposure associated with net investments in certain
    foreign operations. To a lesser extent, the Company uses credit
    derivatives, such as credit default swaps, to synthetically
    replicate investment risks and returns which are not readily
    available in the cash market.

The estimated fair value of derivatives is determined through
    the use of quoted market prices for exchange-traded derivatives
    and financial forwards to sell residential mortgage-backed
    securities or through the use of pricing models for
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives. The determination of estimated fair value, when
    quoted market values are not available, is based on market
    standard valuation methodologies and inputs that are assumed to
    be consistent with what other market participants would use when
    pricing the instruments. Derivative valuations can be affected
    by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates,
    financial indices, credit spreads, default risk (including the
    counterparties to the contract), volatility, liquidity and
    changes in estimates and assumptions used in the pricing models.

The significant inputs to the pricing models for most
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives are inputs that are observable in the market or can
    be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market
    data. Significant inputs that are observable generally include:
    interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rate
    curves, credit curves, and volatility. However, certain
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives may rely on inputs that are significant to the
    estimated fair value that are not observable in the market or
    cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable
    market data. Significant inputs that are unobservable generally
    include: independent broker quotes, credit correlation
    assumptions, references to emerging market currencies, and
    inputs that are outside the observable portion of the interest
    rate curve, credit curve, volatility, or other relevant market
    measure. These unobservable inputs may involve significant
    management judgment or estimation. Even though unobservable,
    these inputs are based on assumptions deemed appropriate given
    the circumstances and consistent with what other market
    participants would use when pricing such instruments. Most
    inputs for
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives are mid market inputs but, in certain cases, bid
    level inputs are used when they are deemed more representative
    of exit value. Market liquidity as well as the use of different
    methodologies, assumptions and inputs may have a material effect
    on the estimated fair values of the Company s derivatives
    and could materially affect net income. Also, fluctuations in
    the estimated fair value of derivatives which have not been
    designated for hedge accounting may result in significant
    volatility in net income.

The credit risk of both the counterparty and the Company are
    considered in determining the estimated fair value for all
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives after taking into account the effects of netting
    agreements and collateral arrangements. Credit risk is monitored
    and consideration of any potential credit adjustment is based on
    a net exposure by counterparty. This is due to the existence of
    netting agreements and collateral arrangements which effectively
    serve to mitigate credit risk. The Company values its derivative
    positions using the standard swap curve which includes a credit
    risk adjustment. This credit risk adjustment is appropriate for
    those parties that execute trades at pricing levels consistent
    with the standard swap curve. As the Company and its significant
    derivative counterparties consistently execute trades at such
    pricing levels, additional credit risk adjustments are not
    currently required in the valuation process. The need for such
    additional credit risk adjustments is monitored by the Company.
    The Company s ability to consistently execute at such
    pricing levels is in part due to the netting agreements and
    collateral arrangements that are in place with all of its
    significant derivative counterparties. The evaluation of the
    requirement to make an additional credit risk adjustments is
    performed by the Company each reporting period.

The accounting for derivatives is complex and interpretations of
    the primary accounting standards continue to evolve in practice.
    Judgment is applied in determining the availability and
    application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate
    accounting treatment under these accounting standards. If it was
    determined that

87

Table of Contents   

hedge accounting designations were not appropriately applied,
    reported net income could be materially affected. Differences in
    judgment as to the availability and application of hedge
    accounting designations and the appropriate accounting treatment
    may result in a differing impact on the consolidated financial
    statements of the Company from that previously reported.
    Assessments of hedge effectiveness and measurements of
    ineffectiveness of hedging relationships are also subject to
    interpretations and estimations and different interpretations or
    estimates may have a material effect on the amount reported in
    net income.

Embedded
    Derivatives   

Embedded derivatives principally include certain variable
    annuity riders and certain guaranteed investment contracts with
    equity or bond indexed crediting rates. Embedded derivatives are
    recorded in the financial statements at estimated fair value
    with changes in estimated fair value adjusted through net income.

The Company issues certain variable annuity products with
    guaranteed minimum benefit riders. These include guaranteed
    minimum withdrawal benefit ( GMWB ) riders, guaranteed
    minimum accumulation benefit ( GMAB ) riders, and
    certain guaranteed minimum income benefit ( GMIB )
    riders. GMWB, GMAB and certain GMIB riders are embedded
    derivatives, which are measured at estimated fair value
    separately from the host variable annuity contract, with changes
    in estimated fair value reported in net investment gains
    (losses).

The estimated fair value for these riders is estimated using the
    present value of future benefits minus the present value of
    future fees using actuarial and capital market assumptions
    related to the projected cash flows over the expected lives of
    the contracts. The projections of future benefits and future
    fees require capital market and actuarial assumptions including
    expectations concerning policyholder behavior. A risk neutral
    valuation methodology is used under which the cash flows from
    the riders are projected under multiple capital market scenarios
    using observable risk free rates. Beginning in 2008, the
    valuation of these embedded derivatives now includes an
    adjustment for the Company s own credit and risk margins
    for non-capital market inputs. The Company s own credit
    adjustment is determined taking into consideration publicly
    available information relating to the Company s debt as
    well as its claims paying ability. Risk margins are established
    to capture the non-capital market risks of the instrument which
    represent the additional compensation a market participant would
    require to assume the risks related to the uncertainties of such
    actuarial assumptions as annuitization, premium persistency,
    partial withdrawal and surrenders. The establishment of risk
    margins requires the use of significant management judgment.

These riders may be more costly than expected in volatile or
    declining equity markets. Market conditions including, but not
    limited to, changes in interest rates, equity indices, market
    volatility and foreign currency exchange rates; changes in the
    Company s own credit standing; and variations in actuarial
    assumptions regarding policyholder behavior, and risk margins
    related to non-capital market inputs may result in significant
    fluctuations in the estimated fair value of the riders that
    could materially affect net income.

The Company ceded the risk associated with certain of the GMIB
    and GMAB riders described in the preceding paragraphs. The value
    of the embedded derivatives on the ceded risk is determined
    using a methodology consistent with that described previously
    for the riders directly written by the Company.

The estimated fair value of the embedded equity and bond indexed
    derivatives contained in certain guaranteed investment contracts
    is determined using market standard swap valuation models and
    observable market inputs, including an adjustment for the
    Company s own credit that takes into consideration publicly
    available information relating to the Company s debt as
    well as its claims paying ability. Changes in equity and bond
    indices, interest rates and the Company s credit standing
    may result in significant fluctuations in estimated the fair
    value of these embedded derivatives that could materially affect
    net income.

The accounting for embedded derivatives is complex and
    interpretations of the primary accounting standards continue to
    evolve in practice. If interpretations change, there is a risk
    that features previously not bifurcated may require bifurcation
    and reporting at estimated fair value in the consolidated
    financial statements and respective changes in estimated fair
    value could materially affect net income.

88

Table of Contents   

Deferred
    Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business
    Acquired   

The Company incurs significant costs in connection with
    acquiring new and renewal insurance business. Costs that vary
    with and relate to the production of new business are deferred
    as DAC. Such costs consist principally of commissions and agency
    and policy issuance expenses. VOBA is an intangible asset that
    reflects the estimated fair value of in-force contracts in a
    life insurance company acquisition and represents the portion of
    the purchase price that is allocated to the value of the right
    to receive future cash flows from the business in-force at the
    acquisition date. VOBA is based on actuarially determined
    projections, by each block of business, of future policy and
    contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate
    account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment
    returns and other factors. Actual experience on the purchased
    business may vary from these projections. The recovery of DAC
    and VOBA is dependent upon the future profitability of the
    related business. DAC and VOBA are aggregated in the financial
    statements for reporting purposes.

DAC for property and casualty insurance contracts, which is
    primarily composed of commissions and certain underwriting
    expenses, is amortized on a pro rata basis over the applicable
    contract term or reinsurance treaty.

DAC and VOBA on life insurance or investment-type contracts are
    amortized in proportion to gross premiums, gross margins or
    gross profits, depending on the type of contract as described
    below.

The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to non-participating
    and non-dividend-paying traditional contracts (term insurance,
    non-participating whole life insurance, non-medical health
    insurance, and traditional group life insurance) over the entire
    premium paying period in proportion to the present value of
    actual historic and expected future gross premiums. The present
    value of expected premiums is based upon the premium requirement
    of each policy and assumptions for mortality, morbidity,
    persistency, and investment returns at policy issuance, or
    policy acquisition, as it relates to VOBA, that include
    provisions for adverse deviation and are consistent with the
    assumptions used to calculate future policyholder benefit
    liabilities. These assumptions are not revised after policy
    issuance or acquisition unless the DAC or VOBA balance is deemed
    to be unrecoverable from future expected profits. Absent a
    premium deficiency, variability in amortization after policy
    issuance or acquisition is caused only by variability in premium
    volumes.

The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to participating,
    dividend-paying traditional contracts over the estimated lives
    of the contracts in proportion to actual and expected future
    gross margins. The amortization includes interest based on rates
    in effect at inception or acquisition of the contracts. The
    future gross margins are dependent principally on investment
    returns, policyholder dividend scales, mortality, persistency,
    expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of
    reinsurance counterparties, and certain economic variables, such
    as inflation. For participating contracts (dividend paying
    traditional contracts within the closed block) future gross
    margins are also dependent upon changes in the policyholder
    dividend obligation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates
    that investment returns, expenses, persistency, and other factor
    changes and policyholder dividend scales are reasonably likely
    to impact significantly the rate of DAC and VOBA amortization.
    Each reporting period, the Company updates the estimated gross
    margins with the actual gross margins for that period. When the
    actual gross margins change from previously estimated gross
    margins, the cumulative DAC and VOBA amortization is
    re-estimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge or credit to
    current operations. When actual gross margins exceed those
    previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization will
    increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings. The
    opposite result occurs when the actual gross margins are below
    the previously estimated gross margins. Each reporting period,
    the Company also updates the actual amount of business in-force,
    which impacts expected future gross margins. When expected
    future gross margins are below those previously estimated, the
    DAC and VOBA amortization will increase, resulting in a current
    period charge to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the
    expected future gross margins are above the previously estimated
    expected future gross margins. Total DAC and VOBA amortization
    during a particular period may increase or decrease depending
    upon the relative size of the amortization change resulting from
    the adjustment to DAC and VOBA for the update of actual gross
    margins and the re-estimation of expected future gross margins.
    Each period, the Company also reviews the estimated gross
    margins for each block of business to determine the
    recoverability of DAC and VOBA balances.

The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to fixed and variable
    universal life contracts and fixed and variable deferred annuity
    contracts over the estimated lives of the contracts in
    proportion to actual and expected future gross profits. The
    amortization includes interest based on rates in effect at
    inception or acquisition of the

89

Table of Contents   

contracts. The amount of future gross profits is dependent
    principally upon returns in excess of the amounts credited to
    policyholders, mortality, persistency, interest crediting rates,
    expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of
    reinsurance counterparties, the effect of any hedges used, and
    certain economic variables, such as inflation. Of these factors,
    the Company anticipates that investment returns, expenses, and
    persistency are reasonably likely to impact significantly the
    rate of DAC and VOBA amortization. Each reporting period, the
    Company updates the estimated gross profits with the actual
    gross profits for that period. When the actual gross profits
    change from previously estimated gross profits, the cumulative
    DAC and VOBA amortization is re-estimated and adjusted by a
    cumulative charge or credit to current operations. When actual
    gross profits exceed those previously estimated, the DAC and
    VOBA amortization will increase, resulting in a current period
    charge to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the actual
    gross profits are below the previously estimated gross profits.
    Each reporting period, the Company also updates the actual
    amount of business remaining in-force, which impacts expected
    future gross profits. When expected future gross profits are
    below those previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization
    will increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings.
    The opposite result occurs when the expected future gross
    profits are above the previously estimated expected future gross
    profits. Total DAC and VOBA amortization during a particular
    period may increase or decrease depending upon the relative size
    of the amortization change resulting from the adjustment to DAC
    and VOBA for the update of actual gross profits and the
    re-estimation of expected future gross profits. Each period, the
    Company also reviews the estimated gross profits for each block
    of business to determine the recoverability of DAC and VOBA
    balances.

Separate account rates of return on variable universal life
    contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts affect
    in-force account balances on such contracts each reporting
    period which can result in significant fluctuations in
    amortization of DAC and VOBA. Returns that are higher than the
    Company s long-term expectation produce higher account
    balances, which increases the Company s future fee
    expectations and decreases future benefit payment expectations
    on minimum death and living benefit guarantees, resulting in
    higher expected future gross profits. The opposite result occurs
    when returns are lower than the Company s long-term
    expectation. The Company s practice to determine the impact
    of gross profits resulting from returns on separate accounts
    assumes that long-term appreciation in equity markets is not
    changed by short-term market fluctuations, but is only changed
    when sustained interim deviations are expected. The Company
    monitors these changes and only changes the assumption when its
    long-term expectation changes. The effect of an
    increase/(decrease) by 100 basis points in the assumed
    future rate of return is reasonably likely to result in a
    decrease/(increase) in the DAC and VOBA balances of
    approximately $110 million with an offset to the
    Company s unearned revenue liability of approximately
    $20 million for this factor. During 2008, the Company did
    not change its long-term expectation of equity market
    appreciation.

The Company also reviews periodically other long-term
    assumptions underlying the projections of estimated gross
    margins and profits. These include investment returns,
    policyholder dividend scales, interest crediting rates,
    mortality, persistency, and expenses to administer business.
    Management annually updates assumptions used in the calculation
    of estimated gross margins and profits which may have
    significantly changed. If the update of assumptions causes
    expected future gross margins and profits to increase, DAC and
    VOBA amortization will decrease, resulting in a current period
    increase to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the
    assumption update causes expected future gross margins and
    profits to decrease.

Over the last several years, the Company s most significant
    assumption updates resulting in a change to expected future
    gross margins and profits and the amortization of DAC and VOBA
    have been updated due to revisions to expected future investment
    returns, expenses, in-force or persistency assumptions and
    policyholder dividends on contracts included within the
    Individual segment. During 2008, the amount of net investment
    gains (losses) as well as the level of separate account balances
    also resulted in significant changes to expected future gross
    margins and profits impacting amortization of DAC and VOBA. The
    Company expects these assumptions to be the ones most reasonably
    likely to cause significant changes in the future. Changes in
    these assumptions can be offsetting and the Company is unable to
    predict their movement or offsetting impact over time.

Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements provides a rollforward of DAC and VOBA for the
    Company for each of the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007
    and 2006 as well as a breakdown of DAC and VOBA by segment and
    reporting unit at December 31, 2008 and 2007. At
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, DAC and VOBA for the Company
    was $20.1 billion and $17.8 billion, respectively. A
    substantial portion, approximately

90

Table of Contents   

80%, of the Company s DAC and VOBA is associated with the
    Individual segment which had DAC and VOBA of $16.5 billion
    and $14.0 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2008
    and 2007. Amortization of DAC and VOBA associated with the
    variable   universal life and the annuities reporting
    units within the Individual segment are significantly impacted
    by movements in equity markets. The following chart illustrates
    the effect on DAC and VOBA within the Company s Individual
    segment of changing each of the respective assumptions as well
    as updating estimated gross margins or profits with actual gross
    margins or profits during the years ended December 31,
    2008, 2007 and 2006. Increases (decreases) in DAC and VOBA
    balances, as presented below, result in a corresponding decrease
    (increase) in amortization.

Prior to 2008, fluctuations in the amounts presented in the
    table above arose principally from normal assumption reviews
    during the period. During 2008, there was a significant increase
    in DAC and VOBA amortization attributable to the following:

The decrease in equity markets during the year significantly
    lowered separate account balances resulting in a significant
    reduction in expected future gross profits on variable universal
    life contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts resulting
    in an increase of $708 million in DAC and VOBA amortization.

Changes in net investment gains (losses) resulted in the
    following changes in DAC and VOBA amortization:

Actual gross profits decreased as a result of an increase in
    liabilities associated with guarantee obligations on variable
    annuities resulting in a reduction of DAC and VOBA amortization
    of $1,047 million. This decrease in actual gross profits
    was mitigated by freestanding derivative gains associated with
    the hedging of such guarantee obligations which resulted in an
    increase in actual gross profits and an increase in DAC and VOBA
    amortization of $625 million.

A change in valuation of guarantee liabilities, resulting from
    the adoption of SFAS 157 during 2008, also impacted the
    computation of actual gross profits and the related amortization
    of DAC and VOBA. The addition of risk margins increased the
    guarantee liability valuations, decreased actual gross profits
    and decreased amortization by $100 million. Offsetting this
    was the addition of own credit to the valuation of guarantee
    liabilities. Own credit decreased guarantee liability
    valuations, increased actual gross profits and increased
    amortization by $739 million. The inclusion of the
    Company s own credit in the valuation of these guarantee
    liabilities  increases the volatility of these valuations,
    the related DAC and VOBA amortization, and the net income of the
    Company.

As more extensively described in Note 9 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements, reductions in both actual and
    expected cumulative earnings of the closed block resulting from
    recent experience in the closed block combined with changes in
    expected dividend scales resulted in an increase in closed block
    DAC amortization of $195 million, $175 million of
    which is related to net investment gains (losses).

The remainder of the impact of net investment gains (losses) on
    DAC amortization of $129 million was attributable to
    numerous immaterial items.

Increases in amortization in 2008 resulting from changes in
    assumptions related to in-force/persistency of $159 million
    were driven by higher than anticipated mortality and lower than
    anticipated premium persistency during the current year.

91

Table of Contents   

The Company s DAC and VOBA balance is also impacted by
    unrealized investment gains (losses) and the amount of
    amortization which would have been recognized if such gains and
    losses had been recognized. The significant increase in
    unrealized investment losses at December 31, 2008 resulted
    in an increase in DAC and VOBA of $3.4 billion.
    Notes 3 and 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements include the DAC and VOBA offset to unrealized
    investment losses.

Goodwill   

Goodwill is the excess of cost over the estimated fair value of
    net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for
    impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or
    circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate,
    indicate that there may be justification for conducting an
    interim test. The Company performs its annual goodwill
    impairment testing during the third quarter of each year based
    upon data as of the close of the second quarter.

Impairment testing is performed using the fair value approach,
    which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the
     reporting unit  level. A reporting unit is the
    operating segment or a business one level below the operating
    segment, if discrete financial information is prepared and
    regularly reviewed by management at that level. For purposes of
    goodwill impairment testing, a significant portion of goodwill
    within Corporate   Other is allocated to reporting
    units within the Company s business segments.

For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, if the carrying
    value of a reporting unit s goodwill exceeds its estimated
    fair value, there is an indication of impairment and the implied
    fair value of the goodwill is determined in the same manner as
    the amount of goodwill would be determined in a business
    acquisition. The excess of the carrying value of goodwill over
    the implied fair value of goodwill is recognized as an
    impairment and recorded as a charge against net income.

In performing its goodwill impairment tests, when management
    believes meaningful comparable market data are available, the
    estimated fair values of the reporting units are determined
    using a market multiple approach. When relevant comparables are
    not available, the Company uses a discounted cash flow model.
    For reporting units which are particularly sensitive to market
    assumptions, such as the annuities and variable  
    universal life reporting units within the Individual segment,
    the Company may corroborate its estimated fair values by using
    additional valuation methodologies.

The key inputs, judgments and assumptions necessary in
    determining fair value include projected operating earnings,
    current book value (with and without accumulated other
    comprehensive income), the level of economic capital required to
    support the mix of business, long term growth rates, comparative
    market multiples, the account value of in-force business,
    projections of new and renewal business as well as margins on
    such business, the level of interest rates, credit spreads,
    equity market levels, and the discount rate management believes
    appropriate to the risk associated with the respective reporting
    unit. The estimated fair value of the annuity and
    variable   universal life reporting units are
    particularly sensitive to the equity market levels.

When testing goodwill for impairment, management also considers
    the Company s market capitalization in relation to its book
    value. Management believes that the overall decrease in the
    Company s current market capitalization is not
    representative of a long-term decrease in the value of the
    underlying reporting units.

Management applies significant judgment when determining the
    estimated fair value of the Company s reporting units and
    when assessing the relationship of market capitalization to the
    estimated fair value of its reporting units and their book
    value. The valuation methodologies utilized are subject to key
    judgments and assumptions that are sensitive to change.
    Estimates of fair value are inherently uncertain and represent
    only management s reasonable expectation regarding future
    developments. These estimates and the judgments and assumptions
    upon which the estimates are based will, in all likelihood,
    differ in some respects from actual future results. Declines in
    the estimated fair value of the Company s reporting units
    could result in goodwill impairments in future periods which
    could materially adversely affect the Company s results of
    operations or financial position.

Management continues to evaluate current market conditions that
    may affect the estimated fair value of the Company s
    reporting units to assess whether any goodwill impairment
    exists. Continued deteriorating or adverse

92

Table of Contents   

market conditions for certain reporting units may have a
    significant impact on the estimated fair value of these
    reporting units and could result in future impairments of
    goodwill.

See    Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
      Goodwill  for further consideration of goodwill
    impairment testing during 2008.

Liability
    for Future Policy Benefits   

The Company establishes liabilities for amounts payable under
    insurance policies, including traditional life insurance,
    traditional annuities and non-medical health insurance.
    Generally, amounts are payable over an extended period of time
    and related liabilities are calculated as the present value of
    future expected benefits to be paid reduced by the present value
    of future expected premiums. Such liabilities are established
    based on methods and underlying assumptions in accordance with
    GAAP and applicable actuarial standards. Principal assumptions
    used in the establishment of liabilities for future policy
    benefits are mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal,
    retirement, disability incidence, disability terminations,
    investment returns, inflation, expenses and other contingent
    events as appropriate to the respective product type. These
    assumptions are established at the time the policy is issued and
    are intended to estimate the experience for the period the
    policy benefits are payable. Utilizing these assumptions,
    liabilities are established on a block of business basis. If
    experience is less favorable than assumptions, additional
    liabilities may be required, resulting in a charge to
    policyholder benefits and claims.

Future policy benefit liabilities for disabled lives are
    estimated using the present value of benefits method and
    experience assumptions as to claim terminations, expenses and
    interest.

Liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses for property
    and casualty insurance are included in future policyholder
    benefits and represent the amount estimated for claims that have
    been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not
    reported. Other policyholder funds include claims that have been
    reported but not settled and claims incurred but not reported on
    life and non-medical health insurance. Liabilities for unpaid
    claims are estimated based upon the Company s historical
    experience and other actuarial assumptions that consider the
    effects of current developments, anticipated trends and risk
    management programs, reduced for anticipated salvage and
    subrogation. The effects of changes in such estimated
    liabilities are included in the results of operations in the
    period in which the changes occur.

Future policy benefit liabilities for minimum death and income
    benefit guarantees relating to certain annuity contracts and
    secondary and paid up guarantees relating to certain life
    policies are based on estimates of the expected value of
    benefits in excess of the projected account balance and
    recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period
    based on total expected assessments. Liabilities for universal
    and variable life secondary guarantees and
     paid-up 
    guarantees are determined by estimating the expected value of
    death benefits payable when the account balance is projected to
    be zero and recognizing those benefits ratably over the
    accumulation period based on total expected assessments. The
    assumptions used in estimating these liabilities are consistent
    with those used for amortizing DAC, and are thus subject to the
    same variability and risk. The assumptions of investment
    performance and volatility for variable products are consistent
    with historical S P experience.

The Company periodically reviews its estimates of actuarial
    liabilities for future policy benefits and compares them with
    its actual experience. Differences between actual experience and
    the assumptions used in pricing these policies, guarantees and
    riders and in the establishment of the related liabilities
    result in variances in profit and could result in losses. The
    effects of changes in such estimated liabilities are included in
    the results of operations in the period in which the changes
    occur.

Income
    Taxes   

Income taxes represent the net amount of income taxes that the
    Company expects to pay to or receive from various taxing
    jurisdictions in connection with its operations. The Company
    provides for federal, state and foreign income taxes currently
    payable, as well as those deferred due to temporary differences
    between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and
    liabilities. The Company s accounting for income taxes
    represents management s best estimate of various events and
    transactions.

93

Table of Contents   

Deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from temporary
    differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of
    assets and liabilities are measured at the balance sheet date
    using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in
    the years the temporary differences are expected to reverse. The
    realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of
    sufficient taxable income within the carryback or carryforward
    periods under the tax law in the applicable tax jurisdiction.
    Valuation allowances are established when management determines,
    based on available information, that it is more likely than not
    that deferred income tax assets will not be realized. Factors in
    management s determination consider the performance of the
    business including the ability to generate capital gains.
    Significant judgment is required in determining whether
    valuation allowances should be established, as well as the
    amount of such allowances. When making such determination,
    consideration is given to, among other things, the following:

(i) 

future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary
    differences and carryforwards;

(ii) 

future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences;

(iii) 

taxable income in prior carryback years; and

(iv) 

tax planning strategies.

The Company determines whether it is more likely than not that a
    tax position will be sustained upon examination by the
    appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the benefit is
    recorded in the financial statements. A tax position is measured
    at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than
    50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. The
    Company may be required to change its provision for income taxes
    when the ultimate deductibility of certain items is challenged
    by taxing authorities or when estimates used in determining
    valuation allowances on deferred tax assets significantly
    change, or when receipt of new information indicates the need
    for adjustment in valuation allowances. Additionally, future
    events, such as changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or
    interpretations of such laws or regulations, could have an
    impact on the provision for income tax and the effective tax
    rate. Any such changes could significantly affect the amounts
    reported in the consolidated financial statements in the year
    these changes occur.

Reinsurance   

The Company enters into reinsurance agreements primarily as a
    purchaser of reinsurance for its various insurance products and
    also as a provider of reinsurance for some insurance products
    issued by third parties. Accounting for reinsurance requires
    extensive use of assumptions and estimates, particularly related
    to the future performance of the underlying business and the
    potential impact of counterparty credit risks. The Company
    periodically reviews actual and anticipated experience compared
    to the aforementioned assumptions used to establish assets and
    liabilities relating to ceded and assumed reinsurance and
    evaluates the financial strength of counterparties to its
    reinsurance agreements using criteria similar to that evaluated
    in the security impairment process discussed previously.
    Additionally, for each of its reinsurance agreements, the
    Company determines if the agreement provides indemnification
    against loss or liability relating to insurance risk, in
    accordance with applicable accounting standards. The Company
    reviews all contractual features, particularly those that may
    limit the amount of insurance risk to which the reinsurer is
    subject or features that delay the timely reimbursement of
    claims. If the Company determines that a reinsurance agreement
    does not expose the reinsurer to a reasonable possibility of a
    significant loss from insurance risk, the Company records the
    agreement using the deposit method of accounting.

Employee
    Benefit Plans   

Certain subsidiaries of the Holding Company (the
     Subsidiaries ) sponsor
     and/or 
    administer pension and other postretirement benefit plans
    covering employees who meet specified eligibility requirements.
    The obligations and expenses associated with these plans require
    an extensive use of assumptions such as the discount rate,
    expected rate of return on plan assets, rate of future
    compensation increases, healthcare cost trend rates, as well as
    assumptions regarding participant demographics such as rate and
    age of retirements, withdrawal rates and mortality. Management,
    in consultation with its external consulting actuarial firm,
    determines these assumptions based upon a variety of factors
    such as historical performance of the plan and its assets,
    currently available market and industry data, and expected
    benefit payout streams. The assumptions used may differ
    materially from actual results

94

Table of Contents   

due to, among other factors, changing market and economic
    conditions and changes in participant demographics. These
    differences may have a significant effect on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements and liquidity.

Litigation
    Contingencies   

The Company is a party to a number of legal actions and is
    involved in a number of regulatory investigations. Given the
    inherent unpredictability of these matters, it is difficult to
    estimate the impact on the Company s financial position.
    Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has
    been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably
    estimated. Liabilities related to certain lawsuits, including
    the Company s asbestos-related liability, are especially
    difficult to estimate due to the limitation of available data
    and uncertainty regarding numerous variables that can affect
    liability estimates. The data and variables that impact the
    assumptions used to estimate the Company s asbestos-related
    liability include the number of future claims, the cost to
    resolve claims, the disease mix and severity of disease in
    pending and future claims, the impact of the number of new
    claims filed in a particular jurisdiction and variations in the
    law in the jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible
    impact of tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to
    allow plaintiffs to pursue claims against the Company when
    exposure to asbestos took place after the dangers of asbestos
    exposure were well known, and the impact of any possible future
    adverse verdicts and their amounts. On a quarterly and annual
    basis, the Company reviews relevant information with respect to
    liabilities for litigation, regulatory investigations and
    litigation-related contingencies to be reflected in the
    Company s consolidated financial statements. It is possible
    that an adverse outcome in certain of the Company s
    litigation and regulatory investigations, including
    asbestos-related cases, or the use of different assumptions in
    the determination of amounts recorded could have a material
    effect upon the Company s consolidated net income or cash
    flows in particular quarterly or annual periods.

Economic
    Capital  

Economic capital is an internally developed risk capital model,
    the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the business and
    to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. The economic
    capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the
    risks inherent in MetLife s businesses. As a part of the
    economic capital process, a portion of net investment income is
    credited to the segments based on the level of allocated equity.
    This is in contrast to the standardized regulatory risk-based
    capital ( RBC ) formula, which is not as refined in
    its risk calculations with respect to the nuances of the
    Company s businesses.

95

Table of Contents   

Results
    of Operations  

Discussion
    of Results   

The following table presents consolidated financial information
    for the Company for the years indicated:

Year
    Ended December 31, 2008 compared with the Year Ended
    December 31, 2007    The Company   

Income from continuing operations decreased by
    $592 million, or 14%, to $3,510 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2008 from $4,102 million for the
    comparable 2007 period.

The following table provides the change from the prior year in
    income from continuing operations by segment:

The Institutional segment s income from continuing
    operations increased primarily due to a decrease in net
    investment losses and a decrease in policyholder benefits due to
    investment losses shared by policyholders. There was also a
    decrease in other expenses due in part to lower expenses related
    to DAC amortization which is primarily

96

Table of Contents   

due to the impact of the implementation of
     SOP 05-1, 
     Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition
    Costs in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance
    Contracts
      ( SOP 05-1 ) 
    in the prior year and amortization refinements in the current
    year. These increases were offset by lower underwriting results
    in retirement   savings, non-medical
    health   other, and group life businesses. There was
    also a decrease in interest margins within the
    retirement   savings and non-medical
    health   other businesses, partially offset by an
    increase in the group life business.

The Individual segment s income from continuing operations
    decreased due to higher DAC amortization partially offset by a
    decrease in net investment losses due to an increase in gains on
    freestanding derivatives partially offset by losses primarily
    relating to embedded derivatives and fixed maturity securities
    including those resulting from intersegment transfers of
    securities. The embedded derivative losses are net of gains
    relating to the effect of the widening of the Company s own
    credit spread. Income from continuing operations also decreased
    due to decreases in interest margins, unfavorable underwriting
    results in life products, an increase in interest credited to
    policyholder account balances, higher annuity benefits, lower
    universal life and investment-type product policy fees combined
    with other revenues, and an increase in policyholder dividends.
    These decreases were partially offset by a decrease in other
    expenses as well as an increase in net investment income on
    blocks of business not driven by interest margins.

The International segment s decrease in income from
    continuing operations was primarily due to a decrease in income
    from continuing operations relating to Argentina and Japan. The
    decrease in Argentina s income from continuing operations
    was due to the negative impact the 2007 pension reform had on
    current year income from continuing operations. The decrease was
    partially offset by the net impact resulting from the Argentine
    nationalization of the private pension system as well as
    refinements to certain contingent and insurance liabilities
    associated with a Supreme Court ruling. The Company s
    earnings from its investment in Japan decreased due to an
    increase in losses on embedded derivatives associated with
    variable annuity riders, an increase in DAC amortization related
    to market performance and the impact of a refinement in
    assumptions for the guaranteed annuity business partially offset
    by the favorable impact from the utilization of the fair value
    option for certain fixed annuities. The Company s results
    were also impacted by a decrease in earnings from assumed
    reinsurance, offset by an increase in income from hedging
    activities associated with Japan s guaranteed annuity
    benefits. These decreases were offset by an increase in net
    investment gains which was due to an increase from gains on
    derivatives primarily in Japan partially offset by losses
    primarily on fixed maturity investments. There was also an
    increase in income from continuing operations relating to Hong
    Kong associated with the remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon
    acquired in the in the second quarter of 2007.

The Auto   Home segment s decrease in income from
    continuing operations was primarily attributable to an increase
    in net investment losses and an increase in policyholder
    benefits and claims. The increase in net investment losses was
    due to an increase in losses on fixed maturity and equity
    securities. The increase in policyholder benefits and claims was
    comprised primarily of an increase in catastrophe losses offset
    by a decrease in non-catastrophe policyholder benefits and
    claims. Offsetting these decreases was an increase in premiums.

Income from continuing operations for Corporate  
    Other decreased due to lower net investment income as well as
    higher corporate expenses, interest expense, legal costs and
    interest credited to policyholder account balances. These
    decreases were offset by an increase in net investment gains,
    higher other revenues, lower interest on uncertain tax
    positions, and lower interest credited to bankholder deposits.
    The increase in net investment gains was primarily due to an
    elimination of losses which were recognized by other segments,
    partially offset by losses on fixed maturity securities and
    derivatives.

Revenues
    and Expenses   

Premiums,
    Fees and Other Revenues  

Premiums, fees and other revenues increased by
    $3,208 million, or 11%, to $32,881 million for the
    year ended December 31, 2008 from $29,673 million for
    the comparable 2007 period.

97

Table of Contents   

The following table provides the change from the prior year in
    premiums, fees and other revenues by segment:

The Institutional segment s increase in premiums, fees and
    other revenues was primarily due to increases in the
    retirement   savings, non-medical health  
    other and group life businesses. The increase in the
    retirement   savings business was primarily due to
    increases in premiums in the group institutional annuity,
    structured settlement and global GIC businesses. The increase in
    both group institutional annuity and the structured settlement
    businesses were primarily due to higher sales. The increase in
    the group institutional annuity business was primarily due to
    large domestic sales and the first significant sales in the
    United Kingdom business in the current year. The growth in the
    non-medical health   other business was largely due to
    increases in the dental, disability, accidental
    death   dismemberment ( AD D ), and
    individual disability insurance ( IDI ) businesses.
    The increase in the dental business was primarily due to organic
    growth in the business and the impact of an acquisition that
    closed in the first quarter of 2008. The increase in group life
    business was primarily due to an increase in term life, which
    was largely attributable to business growth, partially offset by
    a decrease in assumed reinsurance.

The Individual segment s decrease in premiums, fees and
    other revenues was primarily attributable to decreases in
    universal life and investment-type product policy fees and other
    revenues. These decreases were due to lower average separate
    account balances due to unfavorable equity market performance
    during the current year, as well as revisions to
    management s assumptions used to determine estimated gross
    profits and margins. These decreases were partially offset by
    universal life business growth over the prior year.

The International segment s increase in premiums, fees and
    other revenues was primarily due to business growth in the Latin
    America region, as well as the impact of an acquisition in the
    Asia Pacific region, and the impact of foreign currency exchange
    rates. Chile s premiums, fees and other revenues increased
    primarily due to higher annuity sales, as well as higher
    institutional premiums from its traditional and bank
    distribution channels. Mexico s premiums, fees and other
    revenues increased primarily due to growth in its individual and
    institutional businesses, as well as the reinstatement of
    premiums from prior periods. Hong Kong s increase was due
    to the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in MetLife
    Fubon in the second quarter of 2007 and the resulting
    consolidation of the operation beginning in the third quarter of
    2007. The United Kingdom s premiums, fees and other
    revenues increased primarily due to growth in the reinsurance
    business as well as the prior year impact of an unearned premium
    calculation refinement. South Korea s premiums, fees and
    other revenues increased due to growth in its guaranteed annuity
    and variable universal life businesses, as well as in its
    traditional business. Australia s premiums, fees and other
    revenues increased primarily due to growth in the institutional
    business and an increase in retention levels. These increases in
    premiums, fees and other revenues were partially offset by a
    decrease in Argentina primarily due to a decrease in premiums in
    the pension business, for which pension reform eliminated the
    obligation of plan administrators to provide death and
    disability coverage effective January 1, 2008.

The Auto   Home segment reflected no change when
    compared to the prior year although a slight increase in
    premiums was offset by lower other revenues.

The increase in Corporate   Other premiums, fees and
    other revenues was primarily related to MetLife Bank loan
    origination and servicing fees from acquisitions in 2008 and an
    adjustment of surrender values on corporate-owned life insurance
    ( COLI ) policies in the prior year, partially offset
    by lower revenue from a prior year resolution of an
    indemnification claim associated with the 2000 acquisition of
    GALIC.

98

Table of Contents   

Net
    Investment Income  

Net investment income decreased by $1,767 million, or 10%,
    to $16,296 million for the year ended December 31,
    2008 from $18,063 million for the comparable 2007 period.
    Management attributes $3,141 million of this change to a
    decrease in yields, partially offset by an increase of
    $1,374 million due to growth in average invested assets.
    Average invested assets are calculated on cost basis without
    unrealized gains and losses. The decrease in net investment
    income attributable to lower yields was primarily due to lower
    returns on other limited partnership interests, real estate
    joint ventures, short-term investments, fixed maturity
    securities, and mortgage loans, partially offset by improved
    securities lending results. Management anticipates that the
    significant volatility in the equity, real estate and credit
    markets will continue in 2009 which could continue to impact net
    investment income and yields on other limited partnership
    interests and real estate joint ventures. The decrease in net
    investment income attributable to lower yields was partially
    offset by increased net investment income attributable to an
    increase in average invested assets on an amortized cost basis,
    primarily within short-term investments, mortgage loans, other
    limited partnership interests, and real estate joint ventures.

Interest
    Margin  

Interest margin, which represents the difference between
    interest earned and interest credited to policyholder account
    balances decreased in the Individual segment for the year ended
    December 31, 2008 as compared to the prior year. The
    decrease in interest margin within the Individual segment was
    primarily attributable to a decline in net investment income due
    to lower returns on other limited partnership interests, real
    estate joint ventures, other invested assets including
    derivatives, and short term investments, all of which were
    partially offset by higher securities lending results. Interest
    margins decreased in the retirement   savings and
    non-medical health   other businesses, but increased
    within the group life business, all within the Institutional
    segment. Interest earned approximates net investment income on
    investable assets attributed to the segment with minor
    adjustments related to the consolidation of certain separate
    accounts and other minor non-policyholder elements. Interest
    credited is the amount attributed to insurance products,
    recorded in policyholder benefits and claims, and the amount
    credited to policyholder account balances for investment-type
    products, recorded in interest credited to policyholder account
    balances. Interest credited on insurance products reflects the
    current period impact of the interest rate assumptions
    established at issuance or acquisition. Interest credited to
    policyholder account balances is subject to contractual terms,
    including some minimum guarantees. This tends to move gradually
    over time to reflect market interest rate movements and may
    reflect actions by management to respond to competitive
    pressures and, therefore, generally does not introduce
    volatility in expense.

Net
    Investment Gains (Losses)  

Net investment losses decreased by $2,390 million to a gain
    of $1,812 million for the year ended December 31, 2008
    from a loss of $578 million for the comparable 2007 period.
    The decrease in net investment losses is due to an increase in
    gains on derivatives partially offset by losses primarily on
    fixed maturity and equity securities. Derivative gains were
    driven by gains on freestanding derivatives that were partially
    offset by losses on embedded derivatives primarily associated
    with variable annuity riders. Gains on freestanding derivatives
    increased by $6,499 million and were primarily driven by:
    i) gains on certain interest rate swaps, floors, and
    swaptions which were economic hedges of certain investment
    assets and liabilities, ii) gains from foreign currency
    derivatives primarily due to the U.S. dollar strengthening
    as well as, iii) gains primarily from equity options,
    financial futures and interest rate swaps hedging the embedded
    derivatives. The gains on these equity options, financial
    futures, and interest rate swaps substantially offset the change
    in the underlying embedded derivative liability that is hedged
    by these derivatives. Losses on the embedded derivatives
    increased by $2,329 million and were driven by declining
    interest rates and poor equity market performance throughout the
    year. These embedded derivative losses include a
    $2,994 million gain resulting from the effect of the
    widening of the Company s own credit spread which is
    required to be used in the valuation of these variable annuity
    rider embedded derivatives under SFAS 157 which became
    effective January 1, 2008. The remaining change in net
    investment losses of $1,780 million is principally
    attributable to an increase in losses on fixed maturity and
    equity securities, and, to a lesser degree, an increase in
    losses on mortgage and consumer loans and other limited
    partnership interests offset by an increase in foreign currency
    transaction gains. The increase in losses on fixed maturity and
    equity securities is primarily attributable to

99

Table of Contents   

an increase in impairments associated with financial services
    industry holdings which experienced losses as a result of
    bankruptcies, FDIC receivership, and federal government assisted
    capital infusion transactions in the third and fourth quarters
    of 2008. Losses on fixed maturity and equity securities were
    also driven by an increase in credit related impairments on
    communication and consumer sector security holdings, losses on
    asset-backed securities as well as an increase in losses on
    fixed maturity security holdings where the Company either lacked
    the intent to hold, or due to extensive credit widening, the
    Company was uncertain of its intent to hold these fixed maturity
    securities for a period of time sufficient to allow recovery of
    the market value decline.

Underwriting  

Underwriting results are generally the difference between the
    portion of premium and fee income intended to cover mortality,
    morbidity or other insurance costs, less claims incurred, and
    the change in insurance-related liabilities. Underwriting
    results are significantly influenced by mortality, morbidity or
    other insurance-related experience trends, as well as the
    reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business.
    Consequently, results can fluctuate from year to year.
    Underwriting results, including catastrophes, in the
    Auto   Home segment were unfavorable for the year
    ended December 31, 2008, as the combined ratio, including
    catastrophes, increased to 91.2% from 88.4% for the year ended
    December 31, 2007. Underwriting results, excluding
    catastrophes, in the Auto   Home segment were
    favorable for the year ended December 31, 2008, as the
    combined ratio, excluding catastrophes, decreased to 83.1% from
    86.3% for the year ended December 31, 2007. Underwriting
    results were less favorable in the non-medical
    health   other, retirement   savings and
    group life businesses in the Institutional segment. Underwriting
    results were unfavorable in the life products in the Individual
    segment.

Other
    Expenses  

Other expenses increased by $1,495 million, or 14%, to
    $11,924 million for the year ended December 31, 2008
    from $10,429 million for the comparable 2007 period.

The following table provides the change from the prior year in
    other expenses by segment:

The Institutional segment s decrease in other expenses was
    principally due to a decrease in DAC amortization primarily due
    to a charge associated with the impact of DAC and VOBA
    amortization from the implementation of
     SOP 05-1 
    in the prior year and a decrease mainly due to the impact of
    amortization refinements in the current year. This decrease was
    offset by increases in non-deferrable volume-related expenses
    and corporate support expenses. Also offsetting this decrease
    was the impact of revisions to certain pension and
    postretirement liabilities in the current year.

The Individual segment s increase in other expenses
    included higher DAC amortization primarily related to lower
    expected future gross profits due to separate account balance
    decreases resulting from recent market declines, higher net
    investment gains primarily due to net derivative gains and the
    reduction in expected cumulative earnings of the closed block
    partially offset by a reduction in actual earnings of the closed
    block and changes in assumptions used to estimate future gross
    profits and margins. There was an additional increase due to the
    impact of revisions to certain pension and postretirement
    liabilities in the current year. The increases in other expenses
    were offset by a decrease in nondeferrable volume-related
    expenses and by the write-off of a receivable from a
    joint-venture partner in the prior year.

100

Table of Contents   

The International segment s decrease in other expenses was
    driven mainly by Argentina s prior year pension liability
    and the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates. The
    decrease in Argentina s other expenses was primarily due to
    the establishment in the prior year of a liability for pension
    servicing obligations due to pension reform, the elimination of
    the liability for pension servicing obligations and the
    elimination of DAC for the pension business in the current year
    as a result of the nationalization of the pension system, as
    well as the elimination of contingent liabilities for certain
    cases due to recent court decisions related to the pesification
    of insurance contracts by the government in 2002. This decrease
    was offset primarily by an increase in other expenses in South
    Korea, the United Kingdom, and other countries. South
    Korea s other expenses increased primarily due to an
    increase in DAC amortization related to market performance, as
    well as higher spending on advertising and marketing, offset by
    a refinement in DAC capitalization. The United Kingdom s
    other expenses increased due to business growth as well as lower
    DAC amortization in the prior year resulting from calculation
    refinements partially offset by foreign currency transaction
    gains. Other expenses increased in India, Chile and Mexico
    primarily due to growth initiatives. Contributions from the
    other countries accounted for the remainder of the change in
    other expenses.

The Auto   Home segment s decrease in other
    expenses was principally as a result of lower commissions,
    decrease in surveys and underwriting reports and other
    sales-related expenses, partially offset by an unfavorable
    change in DAC capitalization, net of amortization.

The increase in other expenses in Corporate   Other
    was primarily due to higher MetLife Bank costs, higher
    post-employment related costs in the current period associated
    with the implementation of an enterprise-wide cost reduction and
    revenue enhancement initiative, higher corporate support
    expenses including incentive compensation, rent, advertising and
    information technology costs. Corporate expenses also increased
    from lease impairments for Company use space that is currently
    vacant and higher costs from MetLife Foundation contributions,
    partially offset by a reduction in deferred compensation
    expenses. Interest expense was higher due to issuances of junior
    subordinated debt in December 2007 and April 2008 and collateral
    financing arrangements in May 2007 and December 2007, partially
    offset by rate reductions on variable rate collateral financing
    arrangements in 2008, the prepayment of shares subject to
    mandatory redemption in October 2007 and the reduction of
    commercial paper outstanding. Higher legal costs were
    principally driven by costs associated with the commutation of
    three asbestos-related excess insurance policies and decreases
    in prior year legal liabilities partially offset by current year
    decreases resulting from the resolution of certain matters.
    These increases were partially offset by a reduction in
    decreases in interest credited on bankholder deposits and
    interest on uncertain tax positions.

Net
    Income   

Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 was
    $1,580 million, or 31% of income from continuing operations
    before provision for income tax, versus $1,660 million, or
    29% of such income, for the comparable 2007 period. The 2008 and
    2007 effective tax rates differ from the corporate tax rate of
    35% primarily due to the impact of non-taxable investment income
    and tax credits for investments in low income housing. In
    addition, the decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily
    attributable to changes in the ratio of permanent differences to
    income before income taxes.

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income tax,
    decreased by $516 million to a loss of $301 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2008 from income of
    $215 million for the comparable 2007 period. The decrease
    was primarily the result of the split-off of substantially all
    of the Company s interest in RGA in September 2008 whereby
    stockholders of the Company were offered the ability to exchange
    their MetLife shares for shares of RGA Class B common
    stock. This resulted in a loss on disposal of discontinued
    operations of $458 million, net of income tax. Income from
    discontinued operations related to RGA s operations also
    decreased by $54 million, net of income tax, for the year
    ended December 31, 2008. During the fourth quarter of 2008,
    the Holding Company entered into an agreement to sell its
    wholly-owned subsidiary, Cova, which resulted in a gain on
    disposal of discontinued operations of $37 million, net of
    income tax. Income from discontinued operations related to Cova
    also decreased by $14 million, net of income tax, for the
    year ended December 31, 2008. As compared to the prior
    year, there was a reduction in income from discontinued
    operations of $15 million related to the sale of SSRM and
    of $5 million related to the sale of MetLife
    Australia s annuities and pension businesses to a third
    party. There was also a decrease in income from discontinued
    real estate operations of $7 million.

101

Table of Contents   

Year
    Ended December 31, 2007 compared with the Year Ended
    December 31, 2006   The Company   

Income
    from Continuing Operations   

Income from continuing operations increased by
    $1,192 million, or 41%, to $4,102 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2007 from $2,910 million for the
    comparable 2006 period.

The following table provides the 2007 change in income from
    continuing operations by segment:

The Institutional segment s income from continuing
    operations increased primarily due to an increase in interest
    margins, an increase in underwriting results, lower net
    investment losses and the impact of revisions to certain
    expenses in both periods, partially offset by higher expenses
    due to an increase in non-deferrable volume-related and
    corporate support expenses and an increase in DAC amortization
    resulting from the implementation of
     SOP 05-1 
    in 2007.

The Individual segment s income from continuing operations
    increased primarily due to a decrease in net investment losses,
    higher fee income from separate account products, higher net
    investment income on blocks of business not driven by interest
    margins and an increase in interest margins, partially offset by
    higher DAC amortization, unfavorable underwriting results in
    life products, higher general expenses, the impact of revisions
    to certain liabilities in both years, the write-off of a
    receivable in 2007, an increase in the closed block-related
    policyholder dividend obligation, higher annuity benefits,
    increase in policyholder dividends, and an increase in interest
    credited to policyholder account balances.

The increase in the International segment s income from
    continuing operations was primarily attributable to the
    following factors:

An increase in Argentina s income from continuing
    operations primarily due to a net reduction of liabilities
    resulting from pension reform, a reduction in claim liabilities
    resulting from experience reviews in both 2007 and
    2006 years, higher premiums resulting from higher pension
    contributions attributable to higher participant salaries,
    higher net investment income resulting from capital
    contributions in 2006, and a smaller increase in market indexed
    policyholder liabilities without a corresponding decrease in net
    investment income, partially offset by the reduction of cost of
    insurance fees as a result of the new pension system reform
    regulation, an increase in retention incentives related to
    pension reform, as well as lower trading portfolio income.
    Argentina also benefited, in both the current and prior years,
    from the utilization of tax loss carryforwards against which
    valuation allowances had been previously established.

Mexico s income from continuing operations increased
    primarily due to a decrease in certain policyholder liabilities
    caused by a decrease in the unrealized investment results on
    invested assets supporting those liabilities relative to 2006,
    the favorable impact of experience refunds during the first
    quarter of 2007, a reduction in claim liabilities resulting from
    experience reviews and the adverse impact in 2006 of an
    adjustment for experience refunds in its institutional business,
    a year over year decrease in DAC amortization resulting from
    management s update of assumptions used to determine
    estimated gross profits in both 2006 and 2007, a decrease in
    liabilities based on a review of outstanding remittances, and
    growth in its institutional and universal life businesses. These
    increases in Mexico s income from continuing operations
    were partially offset by lower fees resulting from
    management s update of assumptions used to determine
    estimated gross profits, the favorable impact in 2006 associated
    with a large group policy that was not renewed by the
    policyholder, a decrease in various one-time revenue items,

102

Table of Contents   

lower investment yields, the favorable impact in 2006 of
    liabilities related to employment matters that were reduced, and
    the benefit 2006 from the elimination of liabilities for pending
    claims that were determined to be invalid following a review.

Taiwan s income from continuing operations increased
    primarily driven by an increase due to higher DAC amortization
    in 2006 resulting from a loss recognition adjustment and
    restructuring costs, partially offset by the favorable impact of
    liability refinements in 2006, as well as higher policyholder
    liabilities related to loss recognition in 2006.

Brazil s income from continuing operations increased due to
    the unfavorable impact of increases in policyholder liabilities
    due to higher than expected mortality on specific blocks of
    business and an increase in litigation liabilities in 2006, the
    unfavorable impact of the reversal of a tax credit in 2006 as
    well as growth of the in-force business.

Japan s income from continuing operations increased due to
    improved hedge results and business growth, partially offset by
    the impact of foreign currency transaction losses.

Ireland s income from continuing operations increased
    primarily due to the utilization of net operating losses for
    which a valuation allowance had been previously established,
    higher investment income, partially offset by higher
     start-up 
    expenses and currency transaction losses.

Hong Kong s income from continuing operations increased due
    to the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in MetLife
    Fubon and the resulting consolidation of the operation, as well
    as business growth.

Chile s income from continuing operations increased
    primarily due to growth of the in-force business, higher joint
    venture income and higher returns on inflation indexed
    securities, partially offset by higher compensation,
    infrastructure and marketing expenses.

Income from continuing operations increased in the United
    Kingdom due to a reduction of claim liabilities resulting from
    an experience review, offset by an unearned premium calculation
    refinement.

Australia s income from continuing operations increased due
    to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and business
    growth.

These increases in income from continuing operations were
    partially offset by a decrease in the home office due to higher
    economic capital charges and investment expenses, an increase in
    contingent tax expenses in 2007, as well as higher spending due
    to growth and initiatives, partially offset by the elimination
    of certain intercompany expenses previously charged to the
    International segment, and a tax benefit associated with a 2006
    income tax expense related to a revision of an estimate.

India s income from continuing operations decreased
    primarily due to headcount increases and growth initiatives, as
    well as the impact of valuation allowances established against
    losses in both years.

South Korea s income from continuing operations decreased
    due to a favorable impact in 2006 associated with the
    implementation of a more refined reserve valuation system, as
    well as additional expenses in 2007 associated with growth and
    infrastructure initiatives, partially offset by continued growth
    and lower DAC amortization, both in the variable universal life
    business.

The Auto   Home segment s income from continuing
    operations increased primarily due to an increase in premiums
    and other revenues, an increase in net investment income, an
    increase in net investment gains and a decrease in other
    expenses. These were partially offset by losses related to
    higher claim frequencies, higher earned exposures, higher losses
    due to severity, an increase in unallocated claims adjusting
    expenses and an increase from a reduction in favorable
    development of 2006 losses, partially offset by a decrease in
    catastrophe losses, which included favorable development of 2006
    catastrophe liabilities, all of which are related to
    policyholder benefits and claims.

Corporate   Other s income from continuing
    operations increased primarily due to higher net investment
    income, lower net investment losses, lower corporate expenses,
    higher other revenues, integration costs incurred in

103

Table of Contents   

2006, and lower legal costs, partially offset by a decrease in
    tax benefits, higher interest expense on debt, higher interest
    on uncertain tax positions, and higher interest credited to
    bankholder deposits.

Revenues
    and Expenses   

Premiums,
    Fees and Other Revenues  

Premiums, fees and other revenues increased by
    $1,609 million, or 6%, to $29,673 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2007 from $28,064 million for the
    comparable 2006 period.

The following table provides the 2007 change in premiums, fees
    and other revenues by segment:

The growth in the Institutional segment was primarily due to
    increases in the non-medical health   other and group
    life businesses. The non-medical health   other
    business increased primarily due to growth in the dental,
    disability, AD D and IDI businesses. Partially offsetting
    these increases is a decrease in the long-term care
    ( LTC ) business, net of a decrease resulting from a
    shift to deposit liability-type contracts in 2007, partially
    offset by growth in the business. The group life business
    increased primarily due to business growth in term life and
    increases in COLI and life insurance sold to postretirement
    benefit plans. These increases in the non-medical
    health   other and group life businesses were
    partially offset by a decrease in the retirement  
    savings business. The decrease in retirement   savings
    was primarily due to a decrease in structured settlement and
    pension closeout premiums, partially offset by an increase
    across several products.

The growth in the Individual segment was primarily due to higher
    fee income from variable life and annuity and investment-type
    products and growth in premiums from other life products,
    partially offset by a decrease in immediate annuity premiums and
    a decline in premiums associated with the Company s closed
    block business, in line with expectations.

The growth in the International segment was primarily due to the
    following factors:

An increase in Mexico s premiums, fees and other revenues
    due to higher fees and growth in its institutional and universal
    life businesses, a decrease in experience refunds during the
    first quarter of 2007 on Mexico s institutional business,
    as well as the adverse impact in 2006 of an adjustment for
    experience refunds on Mexico s institutional business,
    offset by lower fees resulting from management s update of
    assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits and
    various one-time revenue items which benefited both the current
    and prior years.

Premiums, fees and other revenues increased in Hong Kong
    primarily due to the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest
    in MetLife Fubon and the resulting consolidation of the
    operation as well as business growth.

Chile s premiums, fees and other revenues increased
    primarily due to higher annuity sales, higher institutional
    premiums from its traditional and bank distribution channels,
    and the decrease in 2006 resulting from management s
    decision not to match aggressive pricing in the marketplace.

South Korea s premiums, fees and other revenues increased
    primarily due to higher fees from growth in its guaranteed
    annuity and variable universal life businesses.

Brazil s premiums, fees and other revenues increased due to
    changes in foreign currency exchange rates and business growth.

104

Table of Contents   

Premiums, fees and other revenues increased in Japan due to an
    increase in reinsurance assumed.

Australia s premiums, fees and other revenues increased
    primarily due to growth in the institutional and reinsurance
    business in-force, an increase in retention levels and changes
    in foreign currency exchange rates.

Argentina s premiums, fees and other revenues increased due
    to higher pension contributions resulting from higher
    participant salaries and a higher salary threshold subject to
    fees and growth in bancassurance, offset by the reduction of
    cost of insurance fees as a result of the new pension system
    reform regulation.

Taiwan s and India s premiums, fees and other revenues
    increased primarily due to business growth.

These increases in premiums, fees and other revenues were
    partially offset by a decrease in the United Kingdom due to an
    unearned premium calculation refinement, partially offset by
    changes in foreign currency exchange rates.

The growth in the Auto   Home segment was primarily
    due to an increase in premiums related to increased exposures,
    an increase from various voluntary and involuntary programs, and
    an increase resulting from the change in estimate on auto rate
    refunds due to a regulatory examination, as well as an increase
    in other revenues primarily due to slower than anticipated claim
    payments in 2006. These increases were partially offset by a
    reduction in average earned premium per policy, and an increase
    in catastrophe reinsurance costs.

The increase in Corporate   Other was primarily
    related to the resolution of an indemnification claim associated
    with the 2000 acquisition of GALIC, partially offset by an
    adjustment of surrender values on COLI policies.

Net
    Investment Income  

Net investment income increased by $1,816 million, or 11%,
    to $18,063 million for the year ended December 31,
    2007 from $16,247 million for the comparable 2006 period.
    Management attributes $1,078 million of this increase to
    growth in the average asset base and $738 million to an
    increase in yields. The increase in net investment income from
    growth in the average asset base was primarily within fixed
    maturity securities, mortgage loans, real estate joint ventures
    and other limited partnership interests. The increase in net
    investment income attributable to higher yields was primarily
    due to higher returns on fixed maturity securities, other
    limited partnership interests excluding hedge funds, equity
    securities and improved securities lending results, partially
    offset by lower returns on real estate joint ventures, cash,
    cash equivalents and short-term investments, hedge funds and
    mortgage loans.

Interest
    Margin  

Interest margin, which represents the difference between
    interest earned and interest credited to policyholder account
    balances increased in the Institutional and Individual segments
    for the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to 2006.
    Interest earned approximates net investment income on investable
    assets attributed to the segment with minor adjustments related
    to the consolidation of certain separate accounts and other
    minor non-policyholder elements. Interest credited is the amount
    attributed to insurance products, recorded in policyholder
    benefits and claims, and the amount credited to policyholder
    account balances for investment-type products, recorded in
    interest credited to policyholder account balances. Interest
    credited on insurance products reflects the 2007 impact of the
    interest rate assumptions established at issuance or
    acquisition. Interest credited to policyholder account balances
    is subject to contractual terms, including some minimum
    guarantees. This tends to move gradually over time to reflect
    market interest rate movements and may reflect actions by
    management to respond to competitive pressures and, therefore,
    generally does not introduce volatility in expense.

Net
    Investment Gains (Losses)  

Net investment losses decreased by $804 million to a loss
    of $578 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
    from a loss of $1,382 million for the comparable 2006
    period. The decrease in net investment losses was primarily due
    to a reduction of losses on fixed maturity securities resulting
    principally from the 2006 portfolio repositioning in a rising
    interest rate environment, increased gains from asset-based
    foreign currency transactions

105

Table of Contents   

due to a decline in the U.S. dollar year over year against
    several major currencies and increased gains on equity
    securities, partially offset by increased losses from the
    mark-to-market on derivatives and reduced gains on real estate
    and real estate joint ventures.

Underwriting  

Underwriting results are generally the difference between the
    portion of premium and fee income intended to cover mortality,
    morbidity or other insurance costs, less claims incurred, and
    the change in insurance-related liabilities. Underwriting
    results are significantly influenced by mortality, morbidity or
    other insurance-related experience trends, as well as the
    reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business.
    Consequently, results can fluctuate from year to year.
    Underwriting results, excluding catastrophes, in the
    Auto   Home segment were favorable for the year ended
    December 31, 2007. Although lower than comparable period of
    2006, as the combined ratio, excluding catastrophes, increased
    to 86.3% from 82.8% for the year ended December 31, 2006.
    Underwriting results were favorable in the non-medical
    health   other, group life and retirement  
    savings businesses in the Institutional segment. Underwriting
    results were unfavorable in the life products in the Individual
    segment.

Other
    Expenses  

Other expenses increased by $892 million, or 9%, to
    $10,429 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
    from $9,537 million for the comparable 2006 period.

The following table provides the 2007 change in other expenses
    by segment:

The Institutional segment contributed to the year over year
    increase primarily due to an increase in non-deferrable
    volume-related and corporate support expenses, higher DAC
    amortization associated with the implementation of
     SOP 05-1 
    in 2007, a charge related to the reimbursement of dental claims
    in 2007, the establishment of a contingent legal liability in
    2007 and the impact of certain revisions in both years. These
    increases were partially offset by a benefit related to a
    reduction of an allowance for doubtful accounts in 2007, the
    impact of a charge for non-deferrable LTC commissions 
    expense, a charge associated with costs related to the sale of
    certain small market record keeping businesses and a charge
    associated with a regulatory settlement, all in 2006.

The Individual segment contributed to the year over year
    increase in other expenses primarily due to higher DAC
    amortization, higher expenses associated with business growth,
    information technology and other general expenses, the impact of
    revisions to certain liabilities, including pension and
    postretirement liabilities and policyholder liabilities in 2006,
    and a write-off of a receivable from one of the Company s
    joint venture partners in 2007.

The International segment contributed to the year over year
    increase in other expenses primarily due to the business growth
    commensurate with the increase in revenues discussed above. It
    was driven by the following factors:

Argentina s other expenses increased primarily due to a
    liability for servicing obligations that was established as a
    result of pension reform, an increase in commissions on
    bancassurance business, an increase in retention incentives
    related to pension reform, and the impact of management s
    update of DAC assumptions as a result of pension reform and
    growth, partially offset by a lower increase in liabilities due
    to inflation and exchange rate indexing.

106

Table of Contents   

South Korea s other expenses increased primarily due to the
    favorable impact in DAC amortization associated with the
    implementation of a more refined reserve valuation system in
    2006, additional expenses associated with growth and
    infrastructure initiatives, as well as business growth and
    higher bank insurance fees, partially offset by a decrease in
    DAC amortization.

Mexico s other expenses increased due to higher expenses
    related to business growth and the favorable impact in 2006 of
    liabilities that were reduced, offset by a decrease in DAC
    amortization resulting from management s update of
    assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits in both
    2007 and 2006 and a decrease in liabilities based on a review of
    outstanding remittances.

Other expenses increased in India primarily due to headcount
    increases and growth initiatives, partially offset by the impact
    of management s update of assumptions used to determine
    estimated gross profits.

Other expenses increased in Australia primarily due to business
    growth and changes in foreign currency exchange rates.

Other expenses increased in Chile primarily due to compensation
    costs, infrastructure and marketing programs, and growth
    partially offset by a decrease in DAC amortization related to
    inflation indexing.

Other expenses increased in Hong Kong due to the acquisition of
    the remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon and the resulting
    consolidation of the operation.

Ireland s other expenses increased due to higher
     start-up 
    costs, as well as foreign currency transaction losses.

Brazil s other expenses increased due to changes in foreign
    currency exchange rates partially offset by an increase in
    litigation liabilities in 2006.

The United Kingdom s other expenses increased due to
    changes in foreign currency exchange rates and higher spending
    on business initiatives partially offset by lower DAC
    amortization resulting from calculation refinements.

These increases in other expenses were partially offset by a
    decrease in Taiwan s other expenses primarily due to a
    one-time increase in DAC amortization in 2006 due to a loss
    recognition adjustment resulting from low interest rates related
    to product guarantees coupled with high persistency rates on
    certain blocks of business, an increase in DAC amortization in
    2006 associated with the implementation of a new valuation
    system, as well as one-time expenses in 2006 related to the
    termination of the agency force, and expense reductions
    recognized in 2007 due to the elimination of the agency force.

These increases in other expenses were partially offset by a
    decrease in the Auto   Home segment primarily related
    to lower information technology and advertising costs, partially
    offset by minor changes in a variety of expense categories.

Corporate   Other contributed to the year over year
    increase in other expenses primarily due to higher interest
    expense, higher interest on uncertain tax positions and an
    increase in interest credited to bankholder deposits at MetLife
    Bank, National Association ( MetLife Bank  or
     MetLife Bank, N.A. ), partially offset by lower
    corporate support expenses, lower costs from reductions of
    MetLife Foundation contributions, integration costs incurred in
    2006 and lower legal costs.

Net
    Income   

Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2007 was
    $1,660 million, or 29% of income from continuing operations
    before provision for income tax, compared with
    $1,016 million, or 26% of such income, for the comparable
    2006 period. The 2007 and 2006 effective tax rates differ from
    the corporate tax rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of
    non-taxable investment income and tax credits for investments in
    low income housing. In addition, the increase in the effective
    rate for FIN 48 liability additions is entirely offset by
    an increase in non-taxable investment income. The 2007 period
    includes a benefit for decrease in international deferred tax
    valuation allowances and the 2006 period included a prior year
    benefit for international taxes. Lastly, the 2006 period
    included benefit for a  provision-to-filed return 
    adjustment regarding non-taxable investment income.

107

Table of Contents   

Income from discontinued operations, net of income tax,
    decreased by $3,168 million, or 94%, to $215 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2007 from
    $3,383 million for the comparable 2006 period. The decrease
    in income from discontinued operations was primarily due to a
    gain of $3 billion, net of income tax, on the sale of the
    Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties in
    Manhattan, New York, that was recognized during the year ended
    December 31, 2006. In addition, there was lower net
    investment income and net investment gains (losses) of
    $148 million, net of income tax, from discontinued
    operations related to real estate properties sold or
    held-for-sale during the year ended December 31, 2007 as
    compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. Also
    contributing to the decrease was lower income from discontinued
    operations of $23 million, net of income tax, related to
    the sale of MetLife Australia s annuities and pension
    businesses to a third party in the third quarter of 2007 and
    lower income from discontinued operations of $18 million,
    net of income tax, related to the sale of SSRM resulting from a
    reduction in additional proceeds from the sale received during
    the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year
    December 31, 2006. This decrease was partially offset by
    higher income of $7 million, net of income tax, from
    discontinued operations related to RGA, which was reclassified
    to discontinued operations in the third quarter of 2008 as a
    result of a tax-free split off. RGA s income was higher in
    2007, primarily due to an increase in premiums, net of an
    increase in policyholder benefits and claims, due to additional
    in-force business from facultative and automatic treaties and
    renewal premiums on existing blocks of business combined with an
    increase in net investment income, net of interest credited to
    policyholder account balances, due to higher invested assets.
    These increases in RGA s income were offset by an increase
    in net investment losses resulting from a decline in the
    estimated fair value of embedded derivatives associated with the
    reinsurance of annuity products on a funds withheld basis. Also
    offsetting the decrease was higher income of $14 million,
    net of income tax, from discontinued operations related to Cova,
    which was reclassified to discontinued operations in the fourth
    quarter of 2008 as a result of the Holding Company entering into
    an agreement to sell the wholly-owned subsidiary.

Institutional   

The following table presents consolidated financial information
    for the Institutional segment for the years indicated:

108

Table of Contents   

Year
    Ended December 31, 2008 compared with the Year Ended
    December 31, 2007   Institutional   

Income
    from Continuing Operations  

Income from continuing operations increased by
    $423 million, or 29%, to $1,859 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2008 from $1,436 million for the
    comparable 2007 period.

Included in this increase in income from continuing operations
    was a decrease in net investment losses of $488 million,
    net of income tax. The decrease in net investment losses was
    primarily due to an increase in gains on derivatives partially
    offset by an increase in losses from fixed maturity and equity
    securities, including losses resulting from intersegment
    transfers of securities. The derivative gains increased by
    $1,572 million, net of income tax, and were primarily
    driven by interest rate swaps, swaptions, and financial futures
    which were economic hedges of certain investment assets and
    institutional liabilities. The remaining change in net
    investment losses of $1,084 million, net of income tax, is
    principally attributable to an increase in losses on fixed
    maturity and equity securities, and, to a lesser degree, an
    increase in losses on mortgage and consumer loans and other
    limited partnership interests offset by an increase in foreign
    currency transaction gains. The increase in losses on fixed
    maturity and equity securities is primarily attributable to
    losses on intersegment transfers of approximately
    $650 million, net of income tax, which are eliminated
    within Corporate   Other and to an increase in
    impairments associated with financial services industry holdings
    which experienced losses as a result of bankruptcies, FDIC
    receivership, and federal government assisted capital infusion
    transactions in the third and fourth quarters of 2008, as well
    as other credit related impairments or losses on fixed maturity
    securities where the Company did not intend to hold the
    securities until recovery in conjunction with overall market
    declines occurring throughout the year.

The increase in net investment losses decreased policyholder
    benefits and claims by $83 million, net of income tax, the
    majority of which relates to policyholder participation in the
    performance of the portfolio.

Excluding the impact from net investment gains (losses), income
    from continuing operations decreased by $148 million, net
    of income tax, compared to the prior year.

Lower underwriting results of $155 million, net of income
    tax, compared to the prior year, contributed to the decrease in
    income from continuing operations. Management attributed this
    decrease primarily to the group life, non-medical health  
    other and retirement   savings businesses of
    $61 million, $50 million and $47 million, all net
    of income tax, respectively. Underwriting results are generally
    the difference between the portion of premium and fee income
    intended to cover mortality, morbidity, or other insurance costs
    less claims incurred, and the change in insurance-related
    liabilities. Underwriting results are significantly influenced
    by mortality, morbidity, or other insurance-related experience
    trends, as well as the reinsurance activity related to certain
    blocks of business. During periods of high unemployment,
    underwriting results, specifically in the disability businesses,
    tend to decrease as incidence levels trend upwards with
    unemployment levels and the amount of recoveries decline. In
    addition, certain insurance-related liabilities can vary as a
    result of the valuation of the assets supporting those
    liabilities. As invested assets under perform or lose value, the
    related insurance liabilities are increased to reflect the
    company s obligation with respect to those products,
    specifically certain LTC products. Consequently, underwriting
    results can and will fluctuate from period to period.

In addition, a decrease in interest margins of
    $127 million, net of income tax, compared to the prior
    year, contributed to the decrease in income from continuing
    operations. Management attributed this decrease to the
    retirement   savings and non-medical
    health   other businesses, which contributed
    $144 million and $71 million, net of income tax,
    respectively. Partially offsetting these decreases was an
    increase in the group life business of $88 million, net of
    income tax. The decrease in interest margin is primarily
    attributable to a decline in net investment income due to lower
    returns on other limited partnership interests, real estate
    joint ventures, fixed maturity securities, other invested assets
    including derivatives, and mortgage loans, partially offset by
    improved securities lending results. Management anticipates that
    net investment income and the related yields on other limited
    partnerships and real estate joint ventures could decline
    further, which may reduce net investment income during the
    remainder of 2009 due to continued volatility in equity, real
    estate, and credit markets and therefore may continue to reduce
    interest margins during 2009. Interest margin is the difference
    between interest earned and interest credited to policyholder
    account balances. Interest earned approximates net investment
    income on investable assets attributed to the segment with minor
    adjustments related to the consolidation of certain

109

Table of Contents   

separate accounts and other minor non-policyholder elements.
    Interest credited is the amount attributed to insurance
    products, recorded in policyholder benefits and claims, and the
    amount credited to policyholder account balances for
    investment-type products, recorded in interest credited to
    policyholder account balances. Interest credited on insurance
    products reflects the current period impact of the interest rate
    assumptions established at issuance or acquisition. Interest
    credited to policyholder account balances is subject to
    contractual terms, including some minimum guarantees. This tends
    to move in a manner similar to market interest rate movements,
    and may reflect actions by management to respond to competitive
    pressures and, therefore, generally does not, but it may,
    introduce volatility in expense.

Partially offsetting these decreases in income from continuing
    operations was a decline in other expenses, due in part to lower
    expenses related to DAC amortization of $65 million, net of
    income tax, primarily due to the impact of a charge of
    $40 million, net of income tax, in the prior year, due to
    the impact of the implementation of
     SOP 05-1 
    and a decrease of $12 million, net of income tax, mainly
    from amortization refinements in the current year. Partially
    offsetting the decline in DAC amortization was the net impact of
    revisions to certain assets and liabilities in the prior and
    current year of $19 million, net of income tax. The
    remaining increase in operating expenses was more than offset by
    the remaining increase in premiums, fees, and other revenues. A
    portion of premiums, fees and other revenues is intended to
    cover the Company s operating expenses or non-insurance
    related expenses. As many of those expenses are fixed expenses,
    management may not be able to reduce those expenses, in a timely
    manner, proportionate with declining revenues that may result
    from customer-related bankruptcies, customer s reduction of
    coverage stemming from plan changes, elimination of retiree
    coverage, or a reduction in covered payroll.

Revenues  

Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses),
    increased by $2,064 million, or 9%, to $24,160 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2008 from
    $22,096 million for the comparable 2007 period.

The increase of $2,705 million in premiums, fees and other
    revenues was largely due to increases in the
    retirement   savings, non-medical health  
    other and group life businesses of $1,451 million,
    $749 million and $505 million, respectively.

An increase in the retirement   savings business was
    primarily due to increases in premiums in the group
    institutional annuity, structured settlement and global GIC
    businesses of $1,310 million, $222 million and
    $42 million, respectively. The increase in both group
    institutional annuity and the structured settlement businesses
    were primarily due to higher sales. The increase in the group
    institutional annuity business was primarily due to large
    domestic sales and the first significant sales in the United
    Kingdom business in the current year. The global GIC related
    increase was primarily the result of fees earned on the
    surrender of a GIC contract. Partially offsetting these
    increases was the impact of lower sales in the income annuity
    business of $108 million. The remaining increase in the
    retirement   savings business was attributed to
    business growth across several products. Premiums, fees and
    other revenues from retirement   savings products are
    significantly influenced by large transactions and the demand
    for certain of these products can decline during periods of
    volatile credit and investment markets and, as a result, can
    fluctuate from period to period.

The growth in the non-medical health   other business
    was largely due to increases in the dental, disability,
    AD D, and IDI businesses of $734 million. The increase
    in the dental business was primarily due to organic growth in
    the business and the impact of an acquisition that closed in the
    first quarter of 2008. The increases in the disability,
    AD D, and IDI businesses were primarily due to continued
    growth in the business. Partially offsetting these increases was
    a decline in the LTC business of $5 million, primarily
    attributable to a $74 million decrease, which management
    attributed to a shift to deposit liability-type contracts during
    the latter part of the prior year. This decline in the LTC
    business was almost completely offset by current year growth in
    the business. The remaining increase in the non-medical
    health   other business was attributed to business
    growth across several products.

The increase in group life business of $505 million was
    primarily due to a $443 million increase in term life,
    which was largely attributable to business growth, partially
    offset by a decrease in assumed reinsurance. COLI and universal
    life products increased $47 million and $37 million,
    respectively. The increase in COLI was largely attributable to
    the impact of fees earned on the cancellation of a portion of a
    stable value wrap contract of $44 million. In addition,
    continued business growth and the impact of higher experience
    rated refunds in the prior

110

Table of Contents   

year contributed to this increase. Partially offsetting these
    increases in COLI was the impact of fees earned on a large sale
    in the prior year. The increase in universal life products was
    primarily attributable to business growth in the current year.
    Partially offsetting these increases was a decline in life
    insurance sold to postretirement benefit plans of
    $21 million, primarily the result of the impact of a large
    sale in the prior year. Premiums, fees and other revenues from
    group life business can and will fluctuate based, in part, on
    the covered payroll of customers. In periods of high
    unemployment, revenue may be impacted. Revenue may also be
    impacted as a result of customer-related bankruptcies,
    customer s reduction of coverage stemming from plan changes
    or elimination of retiree coverage.

Partially offsetting the increase in premiums, fees and other
    revenues was a decrease in net investment income of
    $641 million. Management attributed a $1,246 million
    decrease in net investment income to a decrease in yields,
    primarily due to lower returns on other limited partnership
    interests, real estate joint ventures, fixed maturity
    securities, other invested assets including derivatives, and
    mortgage loans, partially offset by improved securities lending
    results. Management anticipates that net investment income and
    the related yields on other limited partnership interests and
    real estate joint ventures could decline further, which may
    reduce net investment income during 2009 due to continued
    volatility in equity, real estate, and credit markets. Partially
    offsetting this decrease in yields was a $605 million
    increase, attributed to growth in average invested assets
    calculated on a cost basis without unrealized gains and losses,
    primarily within mortgage loans, other limited partnership
    interests, other invested assets including derivatives, and real
    estate joint ventures.

Expenses  

Total expenses increased by $2,176 million, or 11%, to
    $21,514 million for the year ended December 31, 2008
    from $19,338 million for the comparable 2007 period. The
    increase in expenses was primarily attributable to policyholder
    benefits and claims of $2,720 million, partially offset by
    lower interest credited to policyholder account balances of
    $513 million and lower other expenses of $31 million.

The increase in policyholder benefits and claims of
    $2,720 million included a $128 million decrease
    related to net investment gains (losses). Excluding the decrease
    related to net investment gains (losses), policyholder benefits
    and claims increased by $2,848 million.

Retirement   savings  policyholder benefits
    increased $1,616 million, which was primarily attributable
    to the group institutional annuity and structured settlement
    businesses of $1,448 million and $261 million,
    respectively. The increase in the group institutional annuity
    business was primarily due to the aforementioned increase in
    premiums and charges of $112 million in the current year
    due to liability adjustments in this block of business. In
    addition, an increase in interest credited on future
    policyholder benefits contributed to this increase, which is
    consistent with the expectations of an aging block of business.
    The increase in structured settlements was largely due to the
    aforementioned increase in premiums, an increase in interest
    credited on future policyholder benefits and the impact of a
    favorable liability refinement in the prior year of
    $12 million, partially offset by slightly more favorable
    mortality in the current year. Partially offsetting these
    increases was a decrease of $90 million in the income
    annuity business, primarily attributable to the aforementioned
    decrease in premiums, fees and other revenues, partially offset
    by an increase in interest credited to future policyholder
    benefits.

Non-medical health   other s policyholder
    benefits and claims increased by $736 million. An increase
    of $650 million was largely due to the aforementioned
    growth in the dental, disability, AD D and IDI businesses.
    The increase in the disability business was primarily driven by
    higher incidence and lower recoveries in the current year. In
    addition, LTC increased $87 million, which was primarily
    attributable to continued business growth, the impact of a
    separate account reserve strengthening, triggered by weaker
    investment performance in the current year and an increase in
    interest credited on future policyholder benefits. These
    increases were partially offset by the aforementioned
    $74 million shift to deposit liability-type contracts.
    Included in the disability increase was the favorable impact of
    a $14 million charge related to certain liability
    refinements in the prior year.

Group life s policyholder benefits and claims increased
    $496 million, mostly due to increases in the term life,
    universal life and COLI products of $429 million,
    $71 million and $22 million, respectively, partially
    offset by a decrease of $26 million in life insurance sold
    to postretirement benefit plans. The increases in term life and
    universal life were primarily due to the aforementioned increase
    in premiums, fees and other revenues and included

111

Table of Contents   

the impact of less favorable mortality experience in the current
    year. The current year mortality experience was negatively
    impacted by an unusually high number of large claims in the
    specialty product areas. An additional component of the term
    life increase was the impact of prior year net favorable
    liability refinements of $12 million. Partially offsetting
    these increases in term life was a decrease in interest credited
    on future policyholder benefits, mainly due to lower crediting
    rates in the current year. The increase in the COLI business was
    primarily due to the aforementioned growth in fee income,
    partially offset by favorable mortality in the current year. The
    decrease in life insurance sold to postretirement benefit plans
    was primarily due to the aforementioned decrease in premiums and
    more favorable mortality in the current year.

Management attributed the decrease of $513 million in
    interest credited to policyholder account balances to a
    $856 million decrease from a decline in average crediting
    rates, which was largely due to the impact of lower short-term
    interest rates in the current year, partially offset by a
    $343 million increase, solely from growth in the average
    policyholder account balances, primarily the result of continued
    growth in the global GIC and FHLB advances, partially offset by
    a decline in funding agreement issuances. Management attributes
    the absence of funding agreement issuances in 2008 as a direct
    result of the credit markets. Management believes this trend
    will continue through the remainder of 2009.

Lower other expenses of $31 million included a decrease in
    DAC amortization of $101 million, primarily due to a
    $61 million charge associated with the impact of DAC and
    VOBA amortization, from the implementation of
     SOP 05-1 
    in the prior year and an $18 million decrease mainly due to
    the impact of amortization refinements in the current year. In
    addition, the impact of a charge of $14 million relating to
    the reimbursement of certain dental claims and a
    $15 million charge related to the establishment of a
    liability, both in the prior year, contributed to the decrease
    in other expenses. Partially offsetting these decreases were
    non-deferrable volume related expenses and corporate support
    expenses, which increased $40 million. Non-deferrable
    volume related expenses include those expenses associated with
    information technology, compensation, and direct departmental
    spending. Direct departmental spending includes expenses
    associated with advertising, consultants, travel, printing and
    postage. Also contributing to the increase was a
    $29 million charge due to the impact of revisions to
    certain pension and postretirement liabilities in the current
    year, a $17 million expense resulting from fees incurred
    related to the cancellation of a portion of a stable value wrap
    contract, and a $13 million unfavorable impact related to a
    prior year reduction of an allowance for doubtful accounts.

Year
    ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended
    December 31, 2006   Institutional   

Income
    from Continuing Operations  

Income from continuing operations increased $317 million,
    or 28%, to $1,436 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2007 from $1,119 million for the
    comparable 2006 period.

Included in this increase are higher earnings of
    $31 million, net of income tax, from lower net investment
    losses. In addition, higher earnings of $11 million, net of
    income tax, resulted from an increase in policyholder benefits
    and claims related to net investment gains (losses). Excluding
    the impact of net investment gains (losses), income from
    continuing operations increased by $275 million, net of
    income tax, as compared to 2006.

Interest margins increased $230 million, net of income tax,
    as compared to 2006. Management attributes this increase to a
    $147 million increase in retirement   savings, a
    $46 million increase in group life and a $37 million
    increase in non-medical health   other, respectively, all
    net of income tax. Interest margin is the difference between
    interest earned and interest credited to policyholder account
    balances. Interest earned approximates net investment income on
    investable assets attributed to the segment with minor
    adjustments related to the consolidation of certain separate
    accounts and other minor non-policyholder elements. Interest
    credited is the amount attributed to insurance products,
    recorded in policyholder benefits and claims, and the amount
    credited to policyholder account balances for investment-type
    products, recorded in interest credited to policyholder account
    balances. Interest credited on insurance products reflects the
    2007 impact of the interest rate assumptions established at
    issuance or acquisition. Interest credited to policyholder
    account balances is subject to contractual terms, including some
    minimum guarantees. This tends to move gradually over time to
    reflect market interest rate movements, and may reflect actions
    by management to respond to competitive pressures and,
    therefore, generally does not introduce volatility in expense.

112

Table of Contents   

An increase in underwriting results of $90 million, net of
    income tax, as compared to 2006, contributed to the increase in
    income from continuing operations. Management attributes this
    increase primarily to the non-medical health   other,
    group life and retirement   savings businesses with
    increases of $66 million, $16 million and
    $8 million, all net of income tax, respectively.

Underwriting results are generally the difference between the
    portion of premium and fee income intended to cover mortality,
    morbidity, or other insurance costs less claims incurred, and
    the change in insurance-related liabilities. Underwriting
    results are significantly influenced by mortality, morbidity, or
    other insurance-related experience trends, as well as the
    reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business.
    Consequently, results can fluctuate from period to period.

Partially offsetting this increase in income from continuing
    operations were higher expenses related to an increase in
    non-deferrable volume-related expenses and corporate support
    expenses of $72 million, net of income tax, as well as an
    increase in DAC amortization of $44 million, net of income
    tax, primarily due to a charge of $40 million, net of
    income tax, due to the ongoing impact on DAC and VOBA
    amortization resulting from the implementation of
     SOP 05-1 
    in 2007. This increase in expense was partially offset by the
    impact of certain revisions in both years for a net decrease of
    $34 million, net of income tax. The remaining increase in
    operating expenses was more than offset by the remaining
    increase in premiums, fees, and other revenues.

Revenues  

Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses),
    increased by $1,510 million, or 7%, to $22,096 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2007 from
    $20,586 million for the comparable 2006 period.

Net investment income increased by $916 million.
    Management attributes $744 million of this increase to
    growth in the average asset base primarily within mortgage loans
    on real estate, fixed maturity securities, real estate joint
    ventures, other limited partnership interests, and equity
    securities, driven by continued business growth, particularly
    growth in the funding agreements and global GIC businesses.
    Additionally, management attributes $172 million of this
    increase in net investment income to an increase in yields,
    primarily due to higher returns on fixed maturity securities,
    improved securities lending results, other limited partnership
    interests, and equity securities, partially offset by a decline
    in yields on real estate and real estate joint ventures and
    mortgage loans.

The increase of $594 million in premiums, fees and other
    revenues was largely due to increases in the non-medical
    health   other business of $483 million,
    primarily due to growth in the dental, disability, AD D and
    IDI businesses of $478 million. Partially offsetting these
    increases in the non-medical health   other business
    is a decline in the LTC business of $7 million, which
    includes a $66 million decrease resulting from a shift to
    deposit liability-type contracts in 2007. Excluding this shift,
    LTC premiums would have increased due to growth in the business.
    Group life increased $345 million, which management
    primarily attributes to a $262 million increase in term
    life, primarily due to growth in the business from new sales and
    an increase in reinsurance assumed, partially offset by the
    impact of an increase in experience rated refunds. In addition,
    COLI and life insurance sold to postretirement benefit plans
    increased by $65 million and $30 million,
    respectively. The increase in COLI is largely attributable to
    fees earned on a large sale in 2007. These increases in group
    life s premiums, fees and other revenues were partially
    offset by a decrease of $5 million in the universal life
    insurance products. Partially offsetting the increase in
    premiums, fees and other revenues was a decline in
    retirement   savings  premiums, fees and other
    revenues of $234 million, primarily from declines of
    $158 million and $79 million in structured settlement
    and pension closeout premiums, respectively, partially offset by
    an increase of $3 million across several products. The
    declines in the structured settlement and pension closeout
    businesses are predominantly due to the impact of lower sales in
    2007. Premiums, fees and other revenues from
    retirement   savings products are significantly
    influenced by large transactions and, as a result, can fluctuate
    from period to period.

Expenses  

Total expenses increased by $1,064 million, or 6%, to
    $19,338 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
    from $18,274 million for the comparable 2006 period.

113

Table of Contents   

The increase in expenses was attributable to higher interest
    credited to policyholder account balances of $501 million,
    higher policyholder benefits and claims of $437 million and
    an increase in operating expenses of $126 million.

Management attributes the increase of $501 million in
    interest credited to policyholder account balances to a
    $352 million increase solely from growth in the average
    policyholder account balances, primarily resulting from growth
    in global GICs and funding agreements within the
    retirement   savings business and a $149 million
    increase from a rise in average crediting rates, largely due to
    the global GIC program, coupled with a rise in short-term
    interest rates in 2007.

The increase in policyholder benefits and claims of
    $437 million included a $16 million decrease related
    to net investment gains (losses). Excluding the decrease related
    to net investment gains (losses), policyholder benefits and
    claims increased by $453 million. Non-medical
    health   other s policyholder benefits and claims
    increased by $383 million. This increase was largely due to
    a $369 million increase in the dental, disability, IDI and
    AD D businesses, resulting from the aforementioned growth
    in business. This increase was partially offset by favorable
    claim experience in the dental business and favorable morbidity
    experience in the disability, IDI and AD D businesses. This
    increase included charges related to certain refinements of
    $14 million in 2007 in LTD and the impact of a
    $22 million disability liability reduction in 2006, which
    contributed to the increase. An increase in LTC of
    $14 million is largely attributable to business growth and
    an increase in interest credited, partially offset by the
    aforementioned $66 million shift to deposit liability-type
    contracts and the impact of more favorable claim experience in
    2007. Group life s policyholder benefits and claims
    increased by $264 million due mostly to an increase in the
    term life business of $245 million, which included the
    impact of less favorable mortality in the term life product,
    partially offset by the net impact of favorable liability
    refinements of $12 million in 2007. An increase of
    $29 million in life insurance sold to postretirement plans
    and $25 million for other group life products, including
    COLI, also contributed to the increase in policyholder benefits
    and claims for group life. The increases in term life and life
    insurance sold to postretirement benefit plans are commensurate
    with the aforementioned premiums increases. These increases were
    partially offset by a decline in universal group life products
    of $36 million, primarily due to favorable claim
    experience. Retirement   savings  policyholder
    benefits decreased by $194 million, which was largely due
    to decreases in the pension closeout and structured settlement
    businesses of $98 million and $97 million,
    respectively. The decrease in pension closeouts was primarily
    due to the aforementioned decrease in premiums and a decrease in
    interest credited. The decline in structured settlements was
    primarily a result of the aforementioned decline in premiums,
    partially offset by an increase in interest credited and less
    favorable mortality experience in 2007. In addition, this
    decrease included the net impact of favorable liability
    refinements in 2007, which contributed a decrease of
    $20 million, and the net impact of favorable liability
    refinements in 2006 of $57 million, largely related to
    business associated with the acquisition of Travelers,
    principally in the structured settlement, pension closeout and
    general account businesses.

Higher other expenses of $126 million included an increase
    in non-deferrable volume-related expenses and corporate support
    expenses of $110 million. Non-deferrable volume-related
    expenses included those expenses associated with direct
    departmental spending, information technology, commissions and
    premium taxes. Corporate support expenses included advertising,
    corporate overhead and consulting fees. The increase in other
    expenses was also attributable to higher DAC amortization of
    $67 million, primarily due to a $61 million charge as
    a result of the ongoing impact of DAC and VOBA amortization
    resulting from the implementation of
     SOP 05-1 
    in 2007. In addition, a charge of $14 million related to
    the reimbursement of certain dental claims and a
    $15 million charge related to the establishment of a
    contingent legal liability in 2007 contributed to the increase
    in other expenses. The impact of certain revisions in both years
    also contributed to a net increase in other expenses of
    $2 million. These increases were partially offset by a
    $13 million benefit related to a reduction of an allowance
    for doubtful accounts in 2007. Additionally, 2006 included the
    impact of a $22 million charge for non-deferrable LTC
    commissions expense, a charge of $24 million associated
    with costs related to the sale of certain small market
    recordkeeping businesses and $24 million related to a
    regulatory settlement, which reduced other expenses in 2007.

114

Table of Contents   

Individual  

The following table presents consolidated financial information
    for the Individual segment for the years indicated:

Year
    Ended December 31, 2008 compared with the Year Ended
    December 31, 2007   Individual   

Income
    from Continuing Operations  

Income from continuing operations decreased by
    $711 million, or 53%, to $630 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2008 from $1,341 million for the
    prior year.

Included in this decrease in income from continuing operations
    was a decrease in net investment losses of $505 million,
    net of income tax. The decrease in net investment losses is due
    to an increase in gains on derivatives partially offset by
    losses primarily on fixed maturity securities, including losses
    resulting from intersegment transfers of securities. Derivative
    gains were driven by gains on freestanding derivatives that were
    partially offset by losses on embedded derivatives primarily
    associated with variable annuity riders. Gains on freestanding
    derivatives increased by $2,308 million, net of income tax,
    and were primarily driven by: i) gains on certain interest
    rate floors and financial futures which were economic hedges of
    certain investment assets and liabilities, ii) gains from
    foreign currency derivatives primarily due to the
    U.S. dollar strengthening as well as, iii) gains
    primarily from equity options, financial futures, and interest
    rate swaps hedging the embedded derivatives. The gains on these
    equity options, financial futures, and interest rate swaps
    substantially offset the change in the underlying embedded
    derivative liability that is hedged by these derivatives. Losses
    on the embedded derivatives increased by $1,023 million,
    net of income tax, and were driven by declining interest rates
    and poor equity market performance throughout the year. These
    embedded derivative losses include an $870 million, net of
    income tax, gain resulting from the effect of the widening of
    the Company s own credit spread which is required to be
    used in the valuation of these variable annuity rider embedded
    derivatives under SFAS 157, which became effective
    January 1, 2008. The remaining change in net investment
    losses of $780 million, net of income tax, is principally
    attributable to an increase in losses on fixed maturity
    securities and, to a lesser degree, an increase in foreign

115

Table of Contents   

currency transaction losses on mortgage loans. The increase in
    losses on fixed maturity securities is primarily attributable to
    losses on intersegment transfers of approximately
    $350 million, net of income tax, which are eliminated
    within Corporate   Other and to impairments associated
    with financial services industry holdings which experienced
    losses as a result of bankruptcies, FDIC receivership, and
    federal government assisted capital infusion transactions in the
    third and fourth quarters of 2008, as well as other credit
    related impairments or losses on fixed maturity securities where
    the Company did not intend to hold the securities until recovery
    in conjunction with overall market declines occurring throughout
    the year.

Excluding the impact of net investment gains (losses), income
    from continuing operations decreased by $1,216 million, net
    of income tax, from the prior year.

The decrease in income from continuing operations for the year
    was driven by the following items:

Higher DAC amortization of $837 million, net of income tax,
    related to lower expected future gross profits due to separate
    account balance decreases resulting from recent market declines,
    higher net investment gains primarily due to net derivative
    gains and the reduction in expected cumulative earnings of the
    closed block partially offset by a reduction in actual earnings
    of the closed block and changes in assumptions used to estimate
    future gross profits and margins.

A decrease in interest margins of $318 million, net of
    income tax. Interest margins relate primarily to the general
    account portion of investment-type products. Management
    attributed a $279 million decrease to the deferred annuity
    business and a $39 million decrease to other
    investment-type products, both net of income tax. The decrease
    in interest margin was primarily attributable to a decline in
    net investment income due to lower returns on other limited
    partnership interests, real estate joint ventures, other
    invested assets including derivatives, and short term
    investments, all of which were partially offset by higher
    securities lending results. Interest margin is the difference
    between interest earned and interest credited to policyholder
    account balances related to the general account on these
    businesses. Interest earned approximates net investment income
    on invested assets attributed to these businesses with net
    adjustments for other non-policyholder elements. Interest
    credited approximates the amount recorded in interest credited
    to policyholder account balances. Interest credited to
    policyholder account balances is subject to contractual terms,
    including some minimum guarantees, and may reflect actions by
    management to respond to competitive pressures. Interest
    credited to policyholder account balances tends to move in a
    manner similar to market interest rate movements, subject to any
    minimum guarantees and, therefore, generally does not, but it
    may introduce volatility in expense.

Unfavorable underwriting results in life products of
    $68 million, net of income tax. Underwriting results are
    generally the difference between the portion of premium and fee
    income intended to cover mortality, morbidity or other insurance
    costs less claims incurred and the change in insurance-related
    liabilities. Underwriting results are significantly influenced
    by mortality, morbidity, or other insurance-related experience
    trends, as well as the reinsurance activity related to certain
    blocks of business. Consequently, results can fluctuate from
    year to year.

An increase in interest credited to policyholder account
    balances of $39 million, net of income tax, due primarily
    to lower amortization of the excess interest reserves on
    acquired annuity and universal life blocks of business.

Higher annuity benefits of $29 million, net of income tax,
    primarily due to higher guaranteed annuity benefit costs net of
    related hedging results and higher amortization of sales
    inducements, partially offset by revisions to policyholder
    benefits in both years.

Lower universal life and investment-type product policy fees
    combined with other revenues of $22 million, net of income
    tax, primarily resulting from lower average separate account
    balances due to unfavorable equity market performance during the
    current year, as well as revisions to management s
    assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits and
    margins. These decreases were partially offset by universal life
    business growth over the prior year.

An increase in policyholder dividends of $16 million, net
    of income tax, due to growth in the business.

116

Table of Contents   

These aforementioned decreases in income from continuing
    operations were partially offset by the following items:

Lower expenses of $96 million, net of income tax, primarily
    due to a decrease in non-deferrable volume related expenses and
    a write-off of a receivable from one of the Company s joint
    venture partners in the prior year, partially offset by the
    impact of revisions to certain pension and post retirement
    liabilities in the current year.

Higher net investment income on blocks of business not driven by
    interest margins of $12 million, net of income tax.

The change in effective tax rates between years accounts for the
    remainder of the increase in income from continuing operations.

Revenues  

Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses),
    decreased by $586 million, or 4%, to $14,961 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2008 from
    $15,547 million for the prior year.

Premiums remained flat for the year ended December 31, 2008
    compared to the prior year. Premiums were impacted by an
    increase in immediate annuity premiums of $23 million and
    growth in premiums from other life products of $60 million
    driven by increased renewals of traditional life business. These
    increases were completely offset by an $83 million decline
    in premiums associated with the Company s closed block of
    business in line with expectations.

Universal life and investment-type product policy fees combined
    with other revenues decreased by $70 million primarily
    resulting from lower average separate account balances due to
    unfavorable equity market performance during the current year,
    as well as revisions to management s assumptions used to
    determine estimated gross profits and margins. These decreases
    were partially offset by universal life business growth over the
    prior year. Policy fees from variable life and annuity and
    investment-type products are typically calculated as a
    percentage of the average assets in policyholder accounts. The
    value of these assets can fluctuate depending on equity
    performance.

Net investment income decreased by $516 million. Net
    investment income from the general account portion of
    investment-type products decreased by $499 million, while
    other businesses decreased by $17 million. Management
    attributed $566 million of the decrease to a decrease in
    yields, primarily due to lower returns on other limited
    partnership interests, real estate joint ventures, other
    invested assets including derivatives, and short term
    investments, all of which were partially offset by higher
    securities lending results. Management attributed a
    $50 million increase to a higher average asset base across
    various investment types. Average invested assets are calculated
    on cost basis without unrealized gains and losses.

Expenses  

Total expenses increased by $1,293 million, or 10%, to
    $14,689 million for the year ended December 31, 2008
    from $13,396 million for the prior year.

Policyholder benefits and claims increased by $114 million.
    This was primarily due to unfavorable equity market performance
    during the current year, which resulted in higher guaranteed
    annuity benefit costs net of related hedging results of
    $113 million and higher amortization of sales inducements
    of $69 million. These increases were partially offset by
    $137 million of revisions to policyholder benefits in the
    current year. Additionally, unfavorable mortality in the life
    products, including the closed block, contributed
    $69 million to this increase.

Interest credited to policyholder account balances increased by
    $15 million. Interest credited on the general account
    portion of investment-type products decreased by
    $40 million, while other businesses decreased by
    $5 million. Of the $40 million decrease on the general
    account portion of investment-type products, management
    attributed $68 million to lower crediting rates partially
    offset by a $28 million increase due to higher average
    general account balances. More than offsetting these decreases
    was lower amortization of the excess interest reserves on
    acquired annuity and universal life blocks of business of
    $60 million primarily driven by lower lapses in the current
    year.

117

Table of Contents   

Policyholder dividends increased by $24 million due to
    growth in the business.

Higher other expenses of $1,140 million include higher DAC
    amortization of $1,287 million primarily relating to lower
    expected future gross profits due to separate account balance
    decreases resulting from recent market declines, higher net
    investment gains primarily due to net derivative gains and the
    reduction in expected cumulative earnings of the closed block
    partially offset by a reduction in actual earnings of the closed
    block and changes in assumptions used to estimate future gross
    profits and margins. This was offset by a decrease in other
    expenses of $147 million driven by a $149 million
    decrease in non-deferrable volume related expenses, which
    include those expenses associated with information technology,
    compensation and direct departmental spending. Direct
    departmental spending includes expenses associated with
    consultants, travel, printing and postage. Additionally, there
    was a decrease due to a $24 million write-off of a
    receivable from one of the Company s joint venture partners
    in the prior year. Partially offsetting these decreases was an
    increase of $26 million due to the impact of revisions to
    certain pension and post retirement liabilities in the current
    year.

Year
    Ended December 31, 2007 compared with the Year Ended
    December 31, 2006   Individual   

Income
    from Continuing Operations  

Income from continuing operations increased by $99 million,
    or 8%, to $1,341 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2007 from $1,242 million for the
    comparable period in 2006. Included in this increase was a
    decrease in net investment losses of $311 million, net of
    income tax. Excluding the impact of net investment gains
    (losses), income from continuing operations decreased by
    $212 million from 2006.

The decrease in income from continuing operations for the year
    was driven by the following items:

Higher DAC amortization of $205 million, net of income tax,
    primarily resulting from business growth, lower net investment
    losses in 2007 and revisions to management s assumptions
    used to determine estimated gross profits and margins.

Unfavorable underwriting results in life products of
    $151 million, net of income tax. Underwriting results are
    generally the difference between the portion of premium and fee
    income intended to cover mortality, morbidity or other insurance
    costs less claims incurred and the change in insurance-related
    liabilities. Underwriting results are significantly influenced
    by mortality, morbidity, or other insurance-related experience
    trends, as well as the reinsurance activity related to certain
    blocks of business. Consequently, results can fluctuate from
    year to year.

Higher expenses of $132 million, net of income tax. Higher
    general expenses, the impact of revisions to certain liabilities
    in both years, and the write-off of a receivable from one of the
    Company s joint venture partners contributed to the
    increase in other expenses.

An increase in the closed block-related policyholder dividend
    obligation of $75 million, net of income tax, which was
    driven by net investment gains.

Higher annuity benefits of $24 million, net of income tax,
    primarily due to higher amortization of deferred costs,
    partially offset by lower costs of guaranteed annuity benefit
    riders and related hedging.

An increase in policyholder dividends of $12 million, net
    of income tax, due to growth in the business.

An increase in interest credited to policyholder account
    balances of $13 million, net of income tax, due primarily
    to lower amortization of the excess interest reserves on
    acquired annuity and universal life blocks of business.

These aforementioned decreases in income from continuing
    operations were partially offset by the following items:

Higher fee income from separate account products of
    $276 million, net of income tax, primarily related to fees
    being earned on a higher average account balance resulting from
    a combination of growth in the business and overall market
    performance.

118

Table of Contents   

Higher net investment income on blocks of business not driven by
    interest margins of $99 million, net of income tax, due to
    an increase in yields and growth in the average asset base.

An increase in interest margins of $18 million, net of
    income tax. Interest margins relate primarily to the general
    account portion of investment-type products. Management
    attributed a $1 million decrease to the deferred annuity
    business offset by a $19 million increase to other
    investment-type products, both net of income tax. Interest
    margin is the difference between interest earned and interest
    credited to policyholder account balances related to the general
    account on these businesses. Interest earned approximates net
    investment income on invested assets attributed to these
    businesses with net adjustments for other non-policyholder
    elements. Interest credited approximates the amount recorded in
    interest credited to policyholder account balances. Interest
    credited to policyholder account balances is subject to
    contractual terms, including some minimum guarantees, and may
    reflect actions by management to respond to competitive
    pressures. Interest credited to policyholder account balances
    tends to move in a manner similar to market interest rate
    movements, and may reflect actions by management to respond to
    competitive pressures and, therefore, generally does not, but it
    may, introduce volatility in expense.

The change in effective tax rates between years accounts for the
    remainder of the decrease in income from continuing operations.

Revenues  

Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses),
    increased by $527 million, or 4%, to $15,547 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2007 from
    $15,020 million for 2006.

Premiums decreased by $21 million due to a decrease in
    immediate annuity premiums of $27 million, and an
    $89 million decline in premiums associated with the
    Company s closed block of business, in line with
    expectations. These decreases were partially offset by growth in
    premiums from other life products of $95 million, primarily
    driven by increased sales of term life business.

Universal life and investment-type product policy fees combined
    with other revenues increased by $386 million due to a
    combination of growth in the business and improved overall
    market performance, as well as revisions to management s
    assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits and
    margins. Policy fees from variable life and annuity and
    investment-type products are typically calculated as a
    percentage of the average assets in policyholder accounts. The
    value of these assets can fluctuate depending on equity
    performance.

Net investment income increased by $162 million. Net
    investment income from the general account portion of
    investment-type products and other businesses increased by
    $47 million and $115 million, respectively. Management
    attributes $109 million of this increase to an increase in
    yields, primarily due to higher returns on other limited
    partnership interests. Additionally, management attributes
    $53 million to growth in the average asset base across
    various investment types.

Expenses  

Total expenses increased by $862 million, or 7%, to
    $13,396 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
    from $12,534 million for 2006.

Policyholder benefits and claims increased by $330 million
    primarily due to an increase in the closed block-related
    policyholder dividend obligation of $115 million which was
    primarily driven by net investment gains. Unfavorable mortality
    in the life products, as well as revisions to policyholder
    benefits in both years, contributed $199 million to this
    increase. Included in this increase was $72 million of
    unfavorable mortality in the closed block and a prior year net
    increase of $15 million in the excess mortality liability
    on specific blocks of life insurance policies. Higher
    amortization of sales inducements resulting from business growth
    and revisions to management s assumptions used to determine
    estimated gross profits and margins, partially offset by lower
    costs of guaranteed annuity benefit riders and related hedging
    increased annuity benefits by $37 million. Partially
    offsetting these increases, policyholder benefits and claims
    decreased by $21 million commensurate with the decrease in
    premiums discussed above.

119

Table of Contents   

Interest credited to policyholder account balances decreased by
    $5 million. Interest credited on the general account
    portion of investment-type products and other businesses
    decreased by $16 million and $9 million, respectively.
    Of the $16 million decrease on the general account portion
    of investment-type products, management attributed
    $67 million to higher crediting rates, more than offset by
    $83 million due to lower average policyholder account
    balances. Partially offsetting these decreases was lower
    amortization of the excess interest reserves on acquired annuity
    and universal life blocks of business of $20 million
    primarily driven by lower lapses in 2007.

Policyholder dividends increased by $19 million due to
    growth in the business.

Higher other expenses of $518 million include higher DAC
    amortization of $315 million resulting from business
    growth, lower net investment losses and revisions to
    management s assumptions used to determine estimated gross
    profits and margins. The remaining increase in other expenses of
    $203 million was comprised of $172 million associated
    with business growth, information technology and other general
    expenses, $7 million due to the impact of revisions to
    certain liabilities including pension and postretirement
    liabilities and policyholder liabilities in 2006, and
    $24 million associated with the write-off of a receivable
    from one of the Company s joint venture partners in 2007.

International  

The following table presents consolidated financial information
    for the International segment for the years indicated:

Year
    Ended December 31, 2008 compared with the Year Ended
    December 31, 2007   International   

Income
    from Continuing Operations  

Income from continuing operations decreased by $64 million,
    or 10%, to $580 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2008 from $644 million for the prior year.

120

Table of Contents   

Included in this decrease in income from continuing operations
    was an increase in net investment gains of $39 million, net
    of income tax. The increase in net investment gains was due to
    an increase in gains on derivatives partially offset by losses
    primarily on fixed maturity and equity securities. Derivative
    gains were driven by gains on freestanding derivatives that were
    partially offset by losses on embedded derivatives associated
    with assumed risk on variable annuity riders written directly
    through the Japan joint venture. Gains on freestanding
    derivatives increased by $644 million, net of income tax,
    and were primarily driven by gains from equity options,
    financial futures, interest rate swaps, and foreign currency
    forwards hedging the embedded derivatives. The gains on these
    equity options, financial futures, interest rate swaps, and
    foreign currency forwards substantially offset the change in the
    underlying embedded derivative liability that is hedged by these
    derivatives. Losses on the embedded derivatives increased by
    $532 million, net of income tax, and were driven by
    declining interest rates, poor equity market performance, and
    foreign currency fluctuations throughout the year. These
    embedded derivative losses include a $1,076 million, net of
    income tax, gain resulting from the effect of the widening of
    the Company s own credit spread which is required to be
    used in the valuation of these variable annuity rider embedded
    derivatives under SFAS 157, which became effective
    January 1, 2008. The remaining change in net investment
    gains of $73 million, net of income tax, is principally
    attributable to an increase in impairments on fixed maturity
    securities associated with financial services industry holdings
    which experienced losses as a result of bankruptcies, FDIC
    receivership, and federal government assisted capital infusion
    transactions in the third and fourth quarters of 2008 as well as
    other credit related impairments or losses on fixed maturity
    securities where the Company did not intend to hold the
    securities until recovery in conjunction with overall market
    declines occurring throughout the year.

Excluding the impact of net investment gains (losses) of
    $39 million, net of income tax, and the adverse impact of
    changes in foreign exchange rates of $13 million, net of
    income tax, income from continuing operations decreased by
    $90 million from the prior year.

Income from continuing operations decreased in:

Argentina by $65 million, net of income tax primarily due
    to the negative impact the 2007 Argentine pension reform had on
    the 2008 income from continuing operations. These losses were
    partially offset by the net impact resulting from the Argentine
    nationalization of the private pension system
     Nationalization  as well as refinements to certain
    contingent and insurance liabilities associated with a Supreme
    Court ruling. In 2007, pension reform legislation eliminated the
    obligation to provide death and disability coverage by the plan
    administrators effective January 1, 2008 which created
    significant one time gains in the prior year resulting from the
    release of death and disability reserves. In addition, the
    impact of the 2007 pension reform resulted in a decrease in
    premiums for the full year of 2008 partially offset by a
    decrease in claims and market-indexed policyholder liabilities.
    In December 2008, the Argentine government nationalized the
    private pension system and seized the underlying investments.
    With this action the Company s pension business in
    Argentina ceased to exist. As a result, the Company eliminated
    certain assets which included deferred acquisition costs and
    deferred tax assets, certain liabilities which included
    primarily the liability for future servicing obligations and
    incurred severance costs associated with the termination of
    employees. The liability for future servicing obligations was
    established due to the 2007 pension reform which resulted in the
    Company managing significant pension assets for which the
    Company would no longer receive any compensation. The
    elimination of this liability more than offset the elimination
    of assets and the incurred severance costs related to the
    Nationalization. In addition to the impact of pension reform and
    Nationalization, Argentina s income from continuing
    operations was also favorably impacted by changes in contingent
    liabilities and the associated future policyholder benefits for
    Supreme Court case decisions related to the pesification of
    insurance contracts by the government in 2002. Other
    developments include the reduction of claim liabilities in the
    prior year from an experience review and the favorable impact in
    the current year of higher inflation rates on indexed securities
    partially offset by higher losses on the trading securities
    portfolio. Argentina s results were impacted, in both the
    current and prior years, by valuation allowances against
    deferred taxes that are released only upon actual payment of
    taxes.

Japan by $53 million, net of income tax, due to a decrease
    of $146 million, net of income tax, in the Company s
    earnings from its investment in Japan due to an increase in
    losses on embedded derivatives associated with variable annuity
    riders, an increase in DAC amortization related to market
    performance and the impact of a refinement in assumptions for
    the guaranteed annuity business partially offset by the

121

Table of Contents   

favorable impact from the utilization of the fair value option
    for certain fixed annuities, as well as a decrease of
    $14 million, net of income tax in earnings from assumed
    reinsurance, and an increase of $108 million, net of income
    tax, from hedging activities associated with Japan s
    guaranteed annuity benefits.

The home office by $7 million, net of income tax, primarily
    due to higher economic capital charges and lower expenses in the
    prior year resulting from the elimination of intercompany
    expenses previously charged to the International segment
    partially offset by a decrease in accrued tax liabilities.

Mexico by $4 million, net of income tax, primarily due to
    higher claims experience, an increase in certain policyholder
    liabilities caused by lower unrealized investment losses on the
    invested assets supporting those liabilities relative to the
    prior year, the favorable impact in the prior year of a decrease
    in experience refunds on Mexico s institutional business, a
    lower increase in litigation liabilities in the prior year,
    higher expenses related to business growth and infrastructure
    costs, as well as a valuation allowance established against net
    operating losses, partially offset by the reinstatement of
    premiums from prior years, growth in the individual and
    institutional businesses, higher net investment income due to an
    increase in invested assets as well as the impact of higher
    inflation rates on indexed securities, lower DAC amortization
    resulting from management s update of assumptions used to
    determine estimated gross profits in both the current and prior
    years, and a decrease in liabilities based on a review of
    outstanding remittances.

Chile by $3 million, net of income tax, primarily due to
    higher spending on growth initiatives, as well as higher
    commissions and compensation expenses due to business growth
    partially offset by higher joint venture income.

Partially offsetting these decreases, income from continuing
    operations increased in:

Hong Kong by $18 million, net of income tax, due to the
    acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon in
    the second quarter of 2007 and the resulting consolidation of
    the operation beginning in the third quarter of 2007.

Ireland by $5 million, net of income tax, due to foreign
    currency transaction losses in the prior year and foreign
    currency transaction gains in the current year as well as higher
    net investment income due to an increase in invested assets,
    partially offset by higher expenses related to growth
    initiatives and the utilization in the prior year of net
    operating losses for which a valuation allowance had been
    previously established.

Brazil by $4 million, net of income tax, primarily due to
    business growth offset by a decrease in claims liabilities in
    the prior year from an experience review and higher claim
    experience in the current year.

Taiwan by $4 million, net of income tax, primarily due to
    an increase in invested assets and a refinement in DAC
    capitalization as well as business growth partially offset by
    the impact in both the current and prior years from refinements
    of methodologies related to the estimation of profit emergence
    on certain blocks of business.

South Korea by $3 million, net of income tax, primarily due
    to higher revenues from business growth and higher investment
    yields, a reduction in claim liabilities from a refinement in
    methodology, as well as a refinement in DAC capitalization,
    partially offset by higher claims and operating expenses,
    including an increase in DAC amortization related to market
    performance.

Australia by $3 million, net of income tax, primarily due
    to business growth slightly offset by an increase in claim
    liabilities based on a review of experience.

The United Kingdom by $2 million, net of income tax,
    primarily due to business growth.

Contributions from the other countries account for the remainder
    of the change in income from continuing operations.

Revenues  

Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses),
    increased by $470 million, or 9%, to $5,832 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2008 from
    $5,362 million for the prior year. Excluding the adverse
    impact of

122

Table of Contents   

changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $135 million,
    total revenues increased by $605 million, or 12%, from the
    prior year.

Premiums, fees and other revenues increased by
    $468 million, or 11%, to $4,583 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2008 from $4,115 million for the
    prior year. Excluding the adverse impact of changes in foreign
    currency exchange rates of $109 million, premiums, fees and
    other revenues increased by $577 million, or 14%, from the
    prior year.

Premiums, fees and other revenues increased in:

Chile by $150 million primarily due to higher annuity sales
    as well as higher institutional premiums from its traditional
    and bank distribution channels.

Mexico by $120 million due to growth in its individual and
    institutional businesses as well as the reinstatement of
    $8 million of premiums from prior years partially offset by
    a decrease of $13 million in experience refunds in the
    prior year on Mexico s institutional business and a
    decrease in fees due to management s update of assumptions
    used to determine estimated gross profits in both the current
    and prior years.

Hong Kong by $77 million primarily due to the acquisition
    of the remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon in the second
    quarter of 2007 and the resulting consolidation of the operation
    beginning in the third quarter of 2007 slightly offset by lower
    business growth.

The United Kingdom by $68 million primarily due to growth
    in the reinsurance business as well as the prior year impact of
    an unearned premium calculation refinement.

South Korea by $68 million due to growth in its guaranteed
    annuity and variable universal life businesses as well as in its
    traditional business.

Australia by $54 million as a result of growth in the
    institutional business and an increase in retention levels.

India, Brazil, Belgium, and Taiwan by $34 million,
    $28 million, $12 million and $3 million,
    respectively, due to business growth.

The Company s Japan operations by $17 million due to
    an increase in fees from assumed reinsurance.

Partially offsetting these increases, premiums, fees and other
    revenues decreased in Argentina by $60 million primarily
    due to a decrease in premiums in the pension business, for which
    pension reform eliminated the obligation of plan administrators
    to provide death and disability coverage effective
    January 1, 2008. The decrease related to the pension
    business was partially offset by growth in its institutional and
    bancassurance businesses.

Contributions from the other countries account for the remainder
    of the change in premiums, fees and other revenues.

Net investment income is relatively flat with an increase of
    $2 million to $1,249 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2008 from $1,247 million for the prior
    year. Excluding the adverse impact of changes in foreign
    currency exchange rates of $26 million, net investment
    income increased by $28 million, or 2% from the prior year.

Net investment income increased in:

Chile by $93 million due to the impact of higher inflation
    rates on indexed securities, the valuations and returns of which
    are linked to inflation rates, an increase in invested assets,
    as well as higher joint venture income.

Mexico by $75 million due to an increase in invested
    assets, the impact of higher inflation rates on indexed
    securities, higher short-term yields as well as the lengthening
    of the duration of the portfolio.

Japan by $20 million due to an increase of
    $166 million from hedging activities associated with
    Japan s guaranteed annuity business partially offset by a
    decrease of $146 million, net of income tax, in the
    Company s earnings from its investment in Japan due to an
    increase in losses on embedded derivatives associated with
    variable annuity riders and the impact of a refinement in
    assumptions for the guaranteed

123

Table of Contents   

annuity business partially offset by the favorable impact from
    the utilization of the fair value option for certain fixed
    annuities.

South Korea and Taiwan by $19 million and $9 million,
    respectively, due to increases in invested assets as well as
    higher portfolio yields.

Argentina by $6 million primarily due to the impact of
    higher inflation rates on indexed securities partially offset by
    higher losses on the trading securities portfolio.

India by $5 million primarily due to increases in invested
    assets.

Partially offsetting these increases, net investment income
    decreased in:

Hong Kong by $160 million despite the acquisition of the
    remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon in the second quarter of
    2007 and the resulting consolidation of the operation beginning
    in the third quarter of 2007, because of the negative investment
    income for the year due to the losses on the trading securities
    portfolio which supports unit-linked policyholder liabilities.

The home office of $24 million primarily due to an increase
    in the amount charged for economic capital.

Ireland by $21 million primarily due to losses in the
    current year on the trading securities portfolio which supports
    unit-linked policyholder liabilities, partially offset by an
    increase due to higher invested assets resulting from capital
    contributions in the prior year.

Contributions from the other countries account for the remainder
    of the change in net investment income.

Expenses  

Total expenses increased by $448 million, or 10%, to
    $5,015 million for the year ended December 31, 2008
    from $4,567 million for the prior year. Excluding the
    negative impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of
    $120 million, total expenses increased by
    $568 million, or 13%, from the prior year.

Policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends and
    interest credited to policyholder account balances increased by
    $526 million, or 19%, to $3,344 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2008 from $2,818 million for the
    prior year. Excluding the negative impact of changes in foreign
    currency exchange rates of $68 million, policyholder
    benefits and claims, policyholder dividends and interest
    credited to policyholder account balances increased by
    $594 million, or 22%, from the prior year.

Policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends and
    interest credited to policyholder account balances increased in:

Chile by $236 million primarily due to an increase in the
    annuity and institutional businesses mentioned above, as well as
    an increase in inflation indexed policyholder liabilities.

Mexico by $182 million primarily due to increases in
    liabilities and other policyholder benefits commensurate with
    the growth in premiums discussed above, an increase in certain
    policyholder liabilities caused by lower unrealized investment
    losses on the invested assets supporting those liabilities
    relative to the prior year, and an increase in interest credited
    to policyholder account balances commensurate with the growth in
    investment income from inflation-indexed assets discussed above.

Argentina by $158 million primarily due to the prior year
    impact of a release of death and disability liabilities
    associated with the pension reform discussed above, a reduction
    of claim liabilities in the prior year from an experience review
    as well as growth in the institutional and bancassurance
    business, offset by a decrease in claims and market-indexed
    policyholder liabilities resulting from pension reform, which
    eliminated the obligation of plan administrators to provide
    death and disability coverage effective January 1, 2008.

The Company s Japan operations by $39 million due to
    an increase in guarantee reserves from assumed reinsurance.

124

Table of Contents   

Australia by $38 million due to growth in the institutional
    business and an increase in retention levels as well as an
    increase in claim liabilities based on a review of experience.

South Korea by $31 million primarily due to higher claim
    experience and business growth offset by a reduction in claim
    liabilities due to a refinement in methodology.

The United Kingdom by $16 million due to the reduction in
    claim liabilities in the prior year based on a review of
    experience as well as higher claims in the current year and
    business growth.

India by $13 million due to business growth.

Brazil by $12 million due to a decrease in claims
    liabilities in the prior year from an experience review, higher
    claim experience in the current year and business growth offset
    by a decrease in interest credited to unit-linked policyholder
    liabilities reflecting net losses in the trading portfolio.

Partially offsetting these increases in policyholder benefits
    and claims, policyholder dividends and interest credited to
    policyholder account balances were decreases in:

Hong Kong by $113 million due to the acquisition of the
    remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon in the second quarter of
    2007 and the resulting consolidation of the operation beginning
    in the third quarter of 2007, which includes a decrease in
    interest credited as a result of a reduction in unit-linked
    policyholder liabilities reflecting the losses of the trading
    portfolio backing these liabilities as discussed in the net
    investment income section above.

Ireland by $22 million primarily due to a decrease in
    interest credited as a result of a reduction in unit-linked
    policyholder liabilities reflecting the losses of the trading
    portfolio backing these liabilities.

Contributions from the other countries account for the remainder
    of the change in policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder
    dividends and interest credited to policyholder account balances.

Other expenses decreased by $78 million, or 4%, to
    $1,671 million for the year ended December 31, 2008
    from $1,749 million for the prior year. Excluding the
    negative impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of
    $52 million, total expenses decreased by $26 million,
    or 2%, from the prior year.

Other expenses decreased in:

Argentina by $230 million, primarily due to the
    establishment in the prior year of a liability for pension
    servicing obligations due to pension reform, the elimination of
    the liability for pension servicing obligations and the
    elimination of DAC for the pension business in the current year
    as a result of Nationalization, as well as the elimination of
    contingent liabilities for certain cases due to recent Supreme
    Court decisions related to the pesification of insurance
    contracts by the government in 2002. Partially offsetting these
    decreases is an increase in severance costs related to
    Nationalization, as well as higher commissions from growth in
    the institutional and bancassurance business.

Ireland by $12 million due to foreign currency transaction
    losses in the prior year and foreign currency transaction gains
    in the current year, partially offset by higher expenses related
    to growth initiatives.

Partially offsetting these decreases, other expenses increased
    in:

South Korea by $50 million due to an increase in DAC
    amortization related to market performance as well as higher
    spending on advertising and marketing offset by a refinement in
    DAC capitalization.

The United Kingdom by $50 million due to business growth as
    well as lower DAC amortization in the prior year resulting from
    calculation refinements, partially offset by foreign currency
    transaction gains.

India by $28 million primarily due to increased staffing
    and growth initiatives.

The home office by $12 million primarily due to lower
    expenses in the prior year resulting from the elimination of
    intercompany expenses previously charged to the International
    segment, as well as higher spending on growth and infrastructure
    initiatives, partially offset by a decrease in accrued interest
    on tax liabilities.

125

Table of Contents   

Chile by $12 million primarily due to the business growth
    discussed above as well as higher commissions and compensation
    costs and higher spending on infrastructure and marketing
    programs.

Mexico by $11 million primarily due to higher expenses
    related to business growth and infrastructure costs, a lower
    increase in litigation liabilities in the prior year as well as
    changes in liabilities based on a review of outstanding
    remittances in both the current and prior years, partially
    offset by lower DAC amortization resulting from
    management s update of assumptions used to determine
    estimated gross profits in both the current and prior years.

Hong Kong by $11 million due to the acquisition of the
    remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon in the second quarter of
    2007 and the resulting consolidation of the operation beginning
    in the third quarter of 2007.

Brazil, Belgium and Australia, each increased by
    $11 million, and Poland by $7 million primarily due to
    higher commissions related to business growth.

Taiwan by $5 million due to a refinement in DAC resulting
    from a refinement of methodologies related to the estimation of
    profit emergence on certain blocks of business as well as growth.

Year
    Ended December 31, 2007 compared with the Year Ended
    December 31, 2006   International   

Income
    from Continuing Operations  

Income from continuing operations increased by
    $472 million, or 274%, to $644 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2007 from $172 million for 2006.
    This increase includes the impact of net investment gains of
    $42 million, net of income tax.

Excluding the impact of net investment gains (losses), income
    from continuing operations increased by $430 million from
    2006.

Income from continuing operations increased in:

Argentina by $146 million, net of income tax, primarily due
    to a net reduction of liabilities by $48 million, net of
    income tax, resulting from pension reform. Additionally,
    $66 million of a valuation allowance related to a deferred
    tax asset established in connection with such pension reform
    liabilities was reduced, resulting in a commensurate increase in
    income from continuing operations. Under the reform plan, fund
    administrators are no longer liable for death and disability
    claims of the plan participants; however, administrators retain
    the obligation for administering certain existing and future
    participants  accounts for which they receive no revenue.
    Also contributing is the favorable impact of reductions in claim
    liabilities resulting from experience reviews in both years,
    higher premiums primarily due to higher pension contributions
    attributable to higher participant salaries, higher net
    investment income resulting from capital contributions in 2006,
    and a smaller increase in market indexed policyholder
    liabilities without a corresponding decrease in net investment
    income, partially offset by the reduction of cost of insurance
    fees as a result of the new pension system reform regulation, an
    increase in retention incentives related to pension reform, as
    well as lower trading portfolio income. Argentina also
    benefited, in both years, from the utilization of tax loss
    carryforwards against which valuation allowances had previously
    been established, and in 2007 from the reduction of valuation
    allowances due to expected realizability of deferred tax assets.

Mexico by $139 million, net of income tax, primarily due to
    a decrease in certain policyholder liabilities caused by a
    decrease in the unrealized investment results on invested assets
    supporting those liabilities relative to 2006, the favorable
    impact of experience refunds during the first quarter of 2007 in
    its institutional business, a reduction in claim liabilities
    resulting from experience reviews, the adverse impact in 2006 of
    an adjustment for experience refunds in its institutional
    business, a year over year decrease in DAC amortization as a
    result of management s update of assumptions used to
    determine estimated gross profits in both years, a decrease in
    liabilities based on a review of outstanding remittances, as
    well as growth in its institutional and universal life
    businesses. These increases were offset by lower fees resulting
    from management s update of assumptions used to determine
    estimated gross profits, the favorable impact in 2006 associated
    with a large group policy that was not renewed by the
    policyholder, a decrease in various

126

Table of Contents   

one-time revenue items, lower investment yields, the favorable
    impact in 2006 of liabilities related to employment matters that
    were reduced, and the benefit in 2006 from the elimination of
    liabilities for pending claims that were determined to be
    invalid following a review.

Taiwan by $51 million, net of income tax, primarily due to
    an increase in DAC amortization in 2006 due to a loss
    recognition adjustment and prior year restructuring costs of
    $11 million associated with the termination of the agency
    distribution channel, partially offset by the favorable impact
    of liability refinements in 2006 and higher policyholder
    liabilities related to loss recognition in 2006.

Brazil by $37 million, net of income tax, due to the
    unfavorable impact of increases in policyholder liabilities due
    to higher than expected mortality on specific blocks of business
    in 2006, an increase in litigation liabilities in 2006 and the
    unfavorable impact of the reversal of a tax credit in 2006, as
    well as growth of the in-force business.

Ireland by $19 million, net of income tax, primarily due to
    the utilization of net operating losses for which a valuation
    allowance had been previously established as well as higher
    investment income resulting from higher invested assets from a
    capital contribution, partially offset by higher
     start-up 
    expenses and currency transaction losses.

Japan by $22 million, net of income tax, due to improved
    hedge results and business growth, partially offset by the
    impact of foreign currency transaction losses.

Hong Kong by $9 million, net of income tax, due to the
    acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon and
    the resulting consolidation of the operation, as well as
    business growth.

Chile by $8 million, net of income tax, primarily due to
    continued growth of the in-force business, higher joint venture
    income and higher returns on inflation indexed securities,
    partially offset by higher compensation, infrastructure and
    marketing expenses.

The United Kingdom by $3 million, net of income tax, due to
    a reduction of claim liabilities resulting from an experience
    review, offset by an unearned premium calculation refinement.

Australia by $1 million, net of income tax, due to changes
    in foreign currency exchange rates offset by higher claims and
    business growth.

Partially offsetting these increases, income from continuing
    operations decreased in:

The home office by $9 million, net of income tax, due to
    higher economic capital charges and investment expenses of
    $16 million, net of income tax, a $3 million increase
    in contingent tax expenses in 2007, as well as higher spending
    on growth and initiatives, partially offset by the elimination
    of certain intercompany expenses previously charged to the
    International segment and a tax benefit associated with a prior
    year income tax expense of $7 million related to a revision
    of an estimate.

India by $3 million, net of income tax, primarily due to
    headcount increases and growth initiatives, as well as the
    impact of valuation allowances established against losses in
    both years.

South Korea by $4 million, net of income tax, due to a
    favorable impact in 2006 of $38 million, net of income tax,
    in DAC amortization associated with the implementation of a more
    refined reserve valuation system, as well as additional expenses
    in 2007 associated with growth and infrastructure initiatives,
    partially offset by continued growth in its variable universal
    life business, lower DAC amortization in the variable universal
    life business due to favorable market performance and a lower
    increase in claim liabilities.

The remainder of the change in income from continuing operations
    can be attributed to contributions from the other countries.

Revenues  

Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses),
    increased by $858 million, or 19%, to $5,362 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2007 from
    $4,504 million for 2006.

127

Table of Contents   

Premiums, fees and other revenues increased by
    $560 million, or 16%, to $4,115 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2007 from $3,555 million for 2006.

Premiums, fees and other revenues increased in:

Mexico by $133 million primarily due to higher fees and
    growth in its institutional and universal life businesses, a
    decrease of $13 million in experience refunds during the
    first quarter of 2007 on Mexico s institutional business,
    as well as the adverse impact in 2006 of an adjustment for
    experience refunds on Mexico s institutional business.
    These increases were offset by lower fees resulting from
    management s update of assumptions used to determine
    estimated gross profits, and various one-time revenue items for
    which 2006 benefited by $16 million and 2007 benefited by
    $4 million.

Hong Kong by $98 million due to the acquisition of the
    remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon and the resulting
    consolidation of the operation, as well as business growth.

Chile by $94 million primarily due to higher annuity sales
    resulting from a higher interest rate environment, improved
    competitive conditions and an expected rate increase in 2008,
    higher institutional premiums from its traditional and bank
    distribution channels, as well as the decrease in 2006 resulting
    from management s decision not to match aggressive pricing
    in the marketplace.

South Korea by $90 million primarily due to higher fees
    from growth in its guaranteed annuity business and variable
    universal life business.

Brazil by $35 million primarily due to changes in foreign
    currency exchange rates and business growth.

The Company s Japan operation by $31 million due to an
    increase in reinsurance assumed.

Australia by $26 million as a result of growth in the
    institutional and reinsurance in-force business, an increase in
    retention levels and changes in the foreign currency exchange
    rates.

Argentina by $21 million primarily due to an increase in
    premiums and fees from higher pension contributions resulting
    from higher participant salaries and a higher salary threshold
    subject to fees and growth in bancassurance, partially offset by
    the reduction of cost of insurance fees as a result of the new
    pension system reform regulation.

Taiwan and India by $21 million and $11 million,
    respectively, primarily due to business growth.

Partially offsetting these increases, premiums, fees and other
    revenues decreased in:

The United Kingdom by $3 million due to an unearned premium
    calculation refinement partially offset by changes in foreign
    currency rates.

The remainder of the change in premiums, fees and other revenues
    can be attributed to contributions from the other countries.

Net investment income increased by $298 million, or 31%, to
    $1,247 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
    from $949 million for 2006.

Net investment income increased in:

Chile by $148 million due to the impact of higher inflation
    rates on indexed securities, the valuations and returns of which
    are linked to inflation rates, higher joint venture income, as
    well as an increase in invested assets.

Mexico by $46 million due to an increase in invested
    assets, partially offset by a decrease in yields, exclusive of
    inflation.

Hong Kong by $43 million primarily due to the acquisition
    of the remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon and the resulting
    consolidation of the operation.

Japan by $19 million due to an increase of $52 million
    from hedging activities associated with Japan s guaranteed
    annuity, offset by a decrease of $33 million, net of income
    tax, in the Company s investment in

128

Table of Contents   

Japan primarily due to an increase in the costs of guaranteed
    annuity benefits and the impact of foreign currency transaction
    losses, partially offset by business growth.

South Korea and Taiwan by $24 million and $6 million,
    respectively, primarily due to increases in invested assets.

Brazil by $14 million primarily due to increases in
    invested assets as well as changes in foreign currency exchange
    rates.

Australia by $12 million due to changes in foreign currency
    exchange rates, higher yields and increases in invested assets.

Ireland by $9 million due to an increase in invested assets
    resulting from capital contributions.

India by $4 million due to an increase in invested assets,
    as well as higher yields.

Partially offsetting these increases in net investment income
    was a decrease in:

The home office of $25 million primarily due to an increase
    in the amount charged for economic capital and investment
    management expenses.

Argentina by $7 million primarily due to unfavorable
    results in the trading portfolio, partially offset by higher
    invested assets resulting from capital contributions in 2006.
    Additionally, net investment income in 2006 did not decrease
    correspondingly with the decrease in policyholder benefits and
    claims discussed below because 2006 did not include interest-
    and inflation-indexed assets to support such liabilities.

The remainder of the change in net investment income can be
    attributed to contributions from the other countries.

Changes in foreign currency exchange rates accounted for a
    $106 million increase in total revenues, excluding net
    investment gains (losses).

Expenses  

Total expenses increased by $340 million, or 8%, to
    $4,567 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
    from $4,227 million for 2006.

Policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends and
    interest credited to policyholder account balances increased by
    $122 million, or 5%, to $2,818 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2007 from $2,696 million for 2006.

Policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends and
    interest credited to policyholder account balances increased in:

Chile by $221 million primarily due to an increase in
    inflation indexed policyholder liabilities as well as growth in
    its annuity and institutional businesses.

Hong Kong by $119 million due to the acquisition of the
    remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon and the resulting
    consolidation of the operation.

Taiwan by $65 million primarily due to a decrease of
    $14 million in 2006 from liability refinements associated
    with the conversion to a new valuation system, as well as higher
    policyholder liabilities related to loss recognition in the
    fourth quarter of 2006 and growth in the business.

South Korea by $27 million primarily due to business growth
    as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates, partially
    offset by a lower increase in claims liabilities resulting from
    a change in the reinsurance allowance in 2006.

Australia by $23 million due to higher claims, an increase
    in retention levels, business growth and changes in foreign
    currency exchange rates.

129

Table of Contents   

India by $4 million due to higher claims and business
    growth, partially offset by management s update of
    assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits.

Partially offsetting these increases in policyholder benefits
    and claims, policyholder dividends and interest credited to
    policyholder account balances were decreases in:

Argentina by $250 million primarily due to the elimination
    of liabilities for claims and premium deficiencies of
    $208 million resulting from pension reform. Under the
    reform plan, which is effective January 1, 2008, fund
    administrators are no longer liable for new death and disability
    claims of the plan participants. Also contributing is a decrease
    in interest- and market-indexed policyholder liabilities and the
    favorable impact of reductions in claim liabilities resulting
    from experience reviews in both the current and prior years.

Mexico by $63 million, primarily due to a decrease in
    certain policyholder liabilities of $117 million caused by
    a decrease in the unrealized investment results on the invested
    assets supporting those liabilities relative to 2006 and a
    reduction in claim liabilities resulting from experience
    reviews, offset by an increase of $10 million due to a
    decrease in 2006 of policyholder benefits associated with a
    large group policy that was not renewed by the policyholder, an
    increase of $6 million due to a benefit in 2006 from the
    elimination of liabilities for pending claims that were
    determined to be invalid following a review, as well as business
    growth.

Brazil of $13 million primarily due to the impact in 2006
    of increases in policyholder liabilities from higher than
    expected mortality on specific blocks of business, partially
    offset by changes in foreign currency exchange rates.

The United Kingdom by $8 million, due to a reduction of
    claim liabilities based on a review of experience.

Decreases in other countries accounted for the remainder of the
    change.

Other expenses increased by $218 million, or 14%, to
    $1,749 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
    from $1,531 million for 2006.

Other expenses increased in:

Argentina by $153 million, primarily due to a liability of
    $128 million for servicing obligations that was established
    as a result of pension reform. Under the reform plan, which is
    effective January 1, 2008, the Company retains the
    obligation for administering certain existing and future
    participants  accounts for which they receive no revenue.
    Also contributing is an increase in commissions on bancassurance
    business, an increase in retention incentives related to pension
    reform, the impact of management s update of DAC
    assumptions as a result of pension reform and growth, partially
    offset by a lower increase in liabilities due to inflation and
    exchange rate indexing.

South Korea by $92 million, primarily due to the favorable
    impact in 2006 of $60 million in DAC amortization
    associated with the implementation of a more refined reserve
    valuation system and additional expenses in 2007 associated with
    growth and infrastructure initiatives, as well as business
    growth and higher bank insurance fees, partially offset by a
    decrease in DAC amortization related to market performance.

Mexico by $27 million primarily due to higher expenses
    related to business growth and the favorable impact in 2006 of
    liabilities related to employment matters that were reduced,
    offset by a decrease in DAC amortization resulting from
    management s update of assumptions used to determine
    estimated gross profits in both the current and prior years, and
    a decrease in liabilities based on a review of outstanding
    remittances.

India by $14 million primarily due to headcount increases
    and growth initiatives, partially offset by the impact of
    management s update of assumptions used to determine
    estimated gross profits.

Australia by $12 million primarily due to business growth
    and changes in foreign currency exchange rates.

Chile by $12 million primarily due to higher compensation
    costs, higher spending on infrastructure and marketing programs
    and growth, partially offset by a decrease in DAC amortization
    related to inflation indexing.

130

Table of Contents   

Hong Kong by $11 million due to the acquisition of the
    remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon and the resulting
    consolidation of the operation.

Ireland by $10 million due to additional
     start-up 
    costs, as well as $5 million of foreign currency
    transaction losses.

Brazil by $9 million primarily due to changes in foreign
    currency exchange rates, partially offset by an increase in
    litigation liabilities in 2006.

The United Kingdom by $2 million due to changes in foreign
    currency rates and higher spending on business initiatives,
    partially offset by lower DAC amortization resulting from
    calculation refinements.

Partially offsetting these increases in other expenses were
    decreases in:

Taiwan by $118 million primarily due to a one-time increase
    in DAC amortization in 2006 of $77 million due to a loss
    recognition adjustment resulting from low interest rates
    relative to product guarantees coupled with high persistency
    rates on certain blocks of business, an increase in DAC
    amortization in 2006 associated with the implementation of a new
    valuation system, expenses of $17 million in 2006 related
    the termination of the agency distribution channel and expense
    reductions recognized in 2007 due to elimination of the agency
    distribution channel.

The home office of $4 million primarily due to the
    elimination of certain intercompany expenses previously charged
    to the International Segment, offset by higher spending on
    growth and infrastructure initiatives.

Decreases in other countries accounted for the remainder of the
    change.

Changes in foreign currency exchange rates accounted for a
    $105 million increase in total expenses.

Auto  
    Home  

The following table presents consolidated financial information
    for the Auto   Home segment for the years indicated:

131

Table of Contents   

Year
    Ended December 31, 2008 compared with the Year Ended
    December 31, 2007   Auto  
    Home   

Net
    Income  

Net income decreased by $161 million, or 37%, to
    $275 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 from
    $436 million for the comparable 2007 period.

The decrease in net income was primarily attributable to an
    increase in net investment losses of $98 million, net of
    income tax, and an increase in policyholder benefits and claims
    of $75 million, net of income tax.

The increase in net investment losses is due to an increase in
    losses on fixed maturity and equity securities. The increase in
    losses on fixed maturity and equity securities is primarily
    attributable to an increase in impairments associated with
    financial services industry holdings which experienced losses as
    a result of bankruptcies, FDIC receivership, and federal
    government assisted capital market infusion transactions in the
    third and fourth quarters of 2008, as well as other credit
    related impairments or losses on fixed maturity and equity
    securities where the Company did not intend to hold securities
    until recovery in conjunction with overall market declines
    occurring throughout the year.

The increase in policyholder benefits and claims of
    $75 million, net of income tax, was comprised primarily of
    an increase of $134 million, net of income tax, in
    catastrophe losses resulting from severe thunderstorms and
    tornadoes in the Midwestern and Southern states in the second
    quarter of the current year and hurricanes Ike, Gustav and Hanna
    in the third quarter of the current year, offset by
    $20 million, net of income tax, of additional favorable
    development of prior years  catastrophe losses and loss
    adjustment expenses, primarily from hurricane Katrina. A
    decrease in non-catastrophe policyholder benefits and claims
    improved net income by $39 million, net of income tax,
    resulting from $51 million, net of income tax, of lower
    losses due to lower severity in the auto line of business and
    $8 million, net of income tax, of additional favorable
    development of prior year non-catastrophe losses and
    $8 million, net of income tax, in unallocated loss
    adjustment expenses, primarily from lower employee costs, offset
    by an increase of $23 million, net of income tax, from
    higher non-catastrophe claim frequencies primarily in the
    homeowners line of business and a $5 million, net of income
    tax, increase related to higher earned exposures.

Offsetting this decrease in net income was an increase in
    premiums of $3 million, net of income tax, comprised of an
    increase of $11 million, net of income tax, related to
    increased exposures and an increase of $16 million, net of
    income tax, from a decrease in catastrophe reinsurance costs.
    Offsetting these increases in premiums was a decrease of
    $20 million, net of income tax, related to a reduction in
    average earned premium per policy and a decrease of
    $4 million, net of income tax, in premiums from various
    involuntary programs.

In addition, net investment income decreased by $6 million,
    net of income tax, primarily due to a smaller asset base.

Also impacting net income was a decrease of $16 million,
    net of income tax, in other expenses and a decrease of
    $3 million, net of income tax, in other revenues.

Income taxes contributed $2 million to net income over the
    expected amount primarily due to favorable resolution of a prior
    year audit. A greater proportion of tax advantaged investment
    income resulted in a decline in the segment s effective tax
    rate.

Revenues  

Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses),
    decreased by $10 million, or 0.3%, to $3,195 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2008 from
    $3,205 million for the comparable 2007 period.

Premiums increased by $5 million due to an increase of
    $14 million related to increased exposures and a decrease
    of $25 million in catastrophe reinsurance costs. These
    increases in premiums were offset by a decrease of
    $28 million related to a reduction in average earned
    premium per policy and a decrease of $6 million in premiums
    primarily from various involuntary programs.

Net investment income decreased by $10 million primarily
    due to a smaller asset base. Other revenues decreased
    $5 million primarily related to slower than anticipated
    claims payments resulting in slower recognition of deferred
    income in 2008 related to a reinsurance contract as compared to
    2007 and less income from COLI.

132

Table of Contents   

Expenses  

Total expenses increased by $88 million, or 3%, to
    $2,728 million for the year ended December 31, 2008
    from $2,640 million for the comparable 2007 period.

Policyholder benefits and claims increased by $112 million
    due to an increase of $202 million in catastrophe losses
    primarily resulting from severe thunderstorms and tornadoes in
    the Midwestern and Southern states in the second quarter of the
    current year and hurricanes Ike, Gustav and Hanna in the third
    quarter of the current year, offset by $31 million of
    additional favorable development of prior years 
    catastrophe losses and adjusting expenses, primarily from
    hurricane Katrina. Non-catastrophe policyholder benefits and
    claims decreased $59 million resulting from
    $79 million of lower losses due to lower severities,
    primarily in the auto line of business, $11 million of
    additional favorable development of prior year losses and a
    $12 million decrease in unallocated loss adjustment
    expenses primarily from lower employee costs, offset by an
    increase of $34 million from higher non-catastrophe claim
    frequencies, primarily in the homeowners line of business and a
    $9 million increase related to earned exposures.

Other expenses decreased by $25 million resulting mainly
    from a $21 million decrease in commissions, a
    $3 million decrease in surveys and underwriting reports and
    a $5 million decrease in other sales related expenses,
    offset by a $13 million change in deferred acquisition
    costs, all due to a decrease in policy activity, a decrease of
    $4 million related to a 2007 charge for structured
    settlements and a $5 million decrease from other minor
    fluctuations in a number of expense categories. Policyholder
    dividends increased by $1 million.

Underwriting results, including catastrophes, in the
    Auto   Home segment were unfavorable for the year
    ended December 31, 2008 than as compared to the 2007
    period, as the combined ratio, including catastrophes, increased
    to 91.2% from 88.4% for the year ended December 31, 2007.
    Underwriting results, excluding catastrophes, in the
    Auto   Home segment were favorable for the year ended
    December 31, 2008, as the combined ratio, excluding
    catastrophes, decreased to 83.1% from 86.3% for the year ended
    December 31, 2007.

Year
    Ended December 31, 2007 compared with the Year Ended
    December 31, 2006   Auto  
    Home   

Net
    Income  

Net income increased by $20 million, or 5%, to
    $436 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from
    $416 million for the comparable 2006 period.

The increase in net income was primarily attributable to an
    increase in premiums of $28 million, net of income tax. The
    increase in premiums was principally due to an increase of
    $38 million, net of income tax, related to increased
    exposures, an increase of $4 million, net of income tax,
    from various voluntary and involuntary programs and an increase
    of $4 million, net of income tax, resulting from the change
    in estimate on auto rate refunds due to a regulatory
    examination. Offsetting these increases was a $14 million,
    net of income tax, decrease related to a reduction in average
    earned premium per policy and an increase in catastrophe
    reinsurance costs of $4 million, net of income tax.

In addition, net investment income increased by
    $12 million, net of income tax, due primarily to a
    realignment of economic capital and an increase in net
    investment income from higher yields, somewhat offset by a lower
    asset base. Net investment gains (losses) increased by
    $8 million, net of income tax, for the year ended
    December 31, 2007 as compared to 2006.

In addition, other revenues increased by $14 million, net
    of income tax, due primarily to slower than anticipated claims
    payments in 2006 resulting in slower recognition of deferred
    income in 2006 related to a reinsurance contract as compared to
    2007.

Negatively impacting net income were additional policyholder
    benefits and claims of $59 million, net of income tax,
    primarily due to $39 million, $20 million, and
    $16 million, all net of income tax, of losses related to
    higher claim frequencies, higher earned exposures and higher
    losses due to severity, respectively. In addition, a
    $13 million increase, net of income tax, in unallocated
    claims adjusting expenses and an increase of $12 million,
    net of income tax, from a reduction in favorable development of
    2006 losses negatively impacted net income. Offsetting

133

Table of Contents   

these increases was a $41 million, net of income tax,
    decrease in catastrophe losses, which included favorable
    development of 2006 catastrophe liabilities of $10 million,
    net of income tax.

In addition, there was a decrease of $1 million, net of
    income tax, in policyholder dividends that positively impacted
    net income.

Also favorably impacting net income was a reduction of
    $11 million, net of income tax, in other expenses related
    to lower information technology and advertising costs.

Revenues  

Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses),
    increased by $82 million, or 3%, to $3,205 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2007 from $3,123 million
    for the comparable 2006 period.

Premiums increased by $42 million due principally to a
    $59 million increase in premiums related to increased
    exposures, an increase of $5 million from various voluntary
    and involuntary programs and an increase in premiums of
    $5 million, resulting from the change in estimate on auto
    rate refunds due to a regulatory examination. Offsetting these
    increases was a $21 million decrease related to a reduction
    in average earned premium per policy and an increase in
    catastrophe reinsurance costs of $6 million.

Net investment income increased by $19 million due to a
    realignment of economic capital and an increase in net
    investment income from higher yields, somewhat offset by a lower
    asset base.

In addition, other revenues increased $21 million due
    primarily to slower than anticipated claims payments resulting
    in slower recognition of deferred income in 2006 related to a
    reinsurance contract as compared to 2007.

Expenses  

Total expenses increased by $72 million, or 3%, to
    $2,640 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
    from $2,568 million for the comparable 2006 period.

Policyholder benefits and claims increased by $90 million
    which was primarily due to an increase of $59 million from
    higher claim frequencies, as a result of a return to normal
    weather patterns in 2007 compared to the milder weather in 2006
    across the majority of the country, and a $25 million and
    $30 million increase in losses related to higher severity
    and higher earned exposures, respectively. In addition, an
    increase of $20 million in unallocated loss adjustment
    expenses, primarily resulting from an increase in claims-related
    information technology costs, and a $19 million decrease in
    favorable development of 2006 losses, representing
    $148 million of favorable development for 2007 as compared
    to $167 million for the 2006 period, increased policyholder
    benefits and claims. Offsetting these increases in losses was a
    decrease of $63 million in catastrophe losses, which
    includes $15 million of favorable loss development from
    2006 catastrophes.

Policyholder dividends decreased by $1 million in 2007 as
    compared to 2006.

Other expenses decreased by $17 million primarily related
    to lower information technology and advertising costs, partially
    offset by minor changes in a variety of expense categories.

Underwriting results, excluding catastrophes, in the
    Auto   Home segment were favorable for the year ended
    December 31, 2007, although lower than the comparable
    period of 2006, as the combined ratio, excluding catastrophes,
    increased to 86.3% from 82.8% for the year ended
    December 31, 2006.

134

Table of Contents   

Corporate  
    Other  

The following table presents consolidated financial information
    for Corporate   Other for the years indicated:

Year
    Ended December 31, 2008 compared with the Year Ended
    December 31, 2007   Corporate  
    Other   

Income
    from Continuing Operations  

Income from continuing operations decreased by $79 million,
    or 32%, to $166 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2008 from $245 million for the prior year.

Included in this decrease in income from continuing operations
    is an increase in net investment gains of $586 million, net
    of income tax. The increase in net investment gains arises
    principally from the elimination of $993 million, net of
    income tax, of net investment losses arising from the transfer
    of fixed maturity securities between segments. This was
    partially offset by increased losses of $263 million, net
    of income tax, primarily due to net investment losses on fixed
    maturity securities and derivatives, and, to a much lesser
    degree, losses on equity securities, mortgage and consumer
    loans, and other limited partnership interests which are
    partially offset by foreign currency transaction gains
    originating within Corporate   Other. The fixed
    maturity and equity security losses include losses on sales of
    securities and impairments associated with financial services
    industry holdings which experienced losses as a result of
    bankruptcies, FDIC receivership, and federal government assisted
    capital infusion transactions in the third and fourth quarters
    of 2008, as well as other credit related impairments or losses
    on fixed maturity or equity securities where the Company did not
    intend to hold the securities until recovery in conjunction with
    overall market declines occurring throughout the year. The
    derivative losses were primarily driven by foreign currency
    swaps caused by unfavorable interest rate and foreign exchange
    movements. The derivative losses were partially offset by
    foreign currency transaction gains associated with foreign
    denominated long-term debt.

Excluding the impact of net investment gains (losses), income
    from continuing operations decreased by $665 million,
    compared to the prior year.

135

Table of Contents   

The decrease in income from continuing operations excluding net
    investment gains (losses) was primarily attributable to lower
    net investment income, higher corporate expenses, higher
    interest expense, higher legal costs and higher interest
    credited to policyholder account balances of $391 million
    $216 million, $104 million, $46 million and
    $5 million, respectively, each of which were net of income
    tax. This decrease was partially offset by higher other
    revenues, lower interest on uncertain tax positions, and lower
    interest credited to bankholder deposits of $73 million,
    $27 million and $21 million, respectively, each of
    which were net of income tax. Tax benefits decreased by
    $17 million over the prior year primarily due to a
    $16 million recognition of a deferred tax liability related
    to the RGA split-off and $1 million decrease from the
    difference of finalizing the Company s 2007 tax return in
    2008 when compared to finalizing the Company s 2006 tax
    return in 2007 and the actual and the estimated tax rate
    allocated to the various segments.

Revenues  

Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses),
    decreased by $497 million, or 33%, to $1,029 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2008 from
    $1,526 million for the prior year.

This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in net investment
    income excluding MetLife Bank of $644 million, mainly due
    to reduced yields on other limited partnership interests
    including hedge funds and real estate and real estate joint
    ventures partially offset by higher securities lending results.
    This decrease in yields was partially offset by a higher asset
    base related to the investment of proceeds from issuances of
    junior subordinated debt in December 2007 and April 2008,
    collateral financing arrangements to support statutory reserves
    in May 2007 and December 2007, common stock in October 2008, and
    funding agreements with FHLB of NY in November 2008 partially
    offset by repurchases of outstanding common stock, the
    prepayment of shares subject to mandatory redemption in October
    2007 and the reduction of commercial paper outstanding. A
    fractional repositioning of the portfolio from short-term
    investments resulted in higher leveraged lease income. Net
    investment income on MetLife Bank increased $42 million
    from higher asset base and mortgage loan production primarily
    from acquisitions in 2008. Other revenues increased
    $112 million primarily related to MetLife Bank loan
    origination and servicing fees of $126 million from
    acquisitions in 2008, an adjustment in the prior year of
    surrender values on COLI policies of $13 million, and
    income from counterparties on collateral pledged in 2008 of
    $6 million, partially offset by $37 million lower
    revenue from a prior year resolution of an indemnification claim
    associated with the 2000 acquisition of GALIC. Also included as
    a component of total revenues was the elimination of
    intersegment amounts which was offset within total expenses.

Expenses  

Total expenses increased by $498 million, or 34%, to
    $1,953 million for the year ended December 31, 2008
    from $1,455 million for the prior year.

Corporate expenses were higher by $333 million primarily
    due to higher MetLife Bank costs of $164 million for
    compensation, rent, and mortgage loan origination and servicing
    expenses primarily related to acquisitions in 2008, higher post
    employment related costs of $101 million in the current
    year associated with the implementation of an enterprise-wide
    cost reduction and revenue enhancement initiative, higher
    corporate support expenses of $72 million, which included
    incentive compensation, rent, advertising, and information
    technology costs. Corporate expenses also increased from lease
    impairments of $38 million for company use space that is
    currently vacant, and higher costs from MetLife Foundation
    contributions of $18 million, partially offset by a
    reduction in deferred compensation expenses of $60 million.
    Interest expense was higher by $158 million due to the
    issuances of junior subordinated debt in December 2007 and April
    2008 and collateral financing arrangements in May 2007 and
    December 2007, partially offset by rate reductions on variable
    rate collateral financing arrangements in 2008, the prepayment
    of shares subject to mandatory redemption in October 2007 and
    the reduction of commercial paper outstanding. Legal costs were
    higher by $72 million primarily due to asbestos insurance
    costs of $38 million, which included $35 million for
    the commutation of three asbestos-related excess insurance
    policies and $3 million for amortization and valuation of
    those policies prior to the commutation, $29 million higher
    for decreases in prior year legal liabilities partially offset
    by current year decreases resulting from the resolution of
    certain matters, and an increase in other legal fees of
    $5 million. Interest credited to policyholder account
    balances was $7 million in the current year as a result of
    issuance of funding agreements with FHLB of NY in November

136

Table of Contents   

2008. Interest on uncertain tax positions was lower by
    $41 million as a result of a settlement payment to the IRS
    in December 2007 and a decrease in published IRS interest rates.
    Interest credited on bankholder deposits decreased by
    $33 million at MetLife Bank due to lower interest rates,
    partially offset by higher bankholder deposits. Also included as
    a component of total expenses was the elimination of
    intersegment amounts which were offset within total revenues.

Year
    Ended December 31, 2007 compared with the Year Ended
    December 31, 2006   Corporate  
    Other   

Income
    from Continuing Operations  

Income from continuing operations increased by
    $284 million, to a gain of $245 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2007 from a loss of $39 million for
    2006. Included in this increase were lower net investment losses
    of $129 million, net of income tax. Excluding the impact of
    net investment gains (losses), income from continuing operations
    increased by $155 million.

The increase in income from continuing operations was primarily
    attributable to higher net investment income, lower corporate
    expenses, higher other revenues, integration costs incurred in
    2006, and lower legal cost of $274 million,
    $59 million, $19 million, $17 million, and
    $7 million, respectively, each of which were net of income
    tax. This was partially offset by higher interest expense on
    debt, higher interest on uncertain tax positions, and higher
    interest credited to bankholder deposits of $86 million,
    $23 million, and $3 million respectively, each of
    which were net of income tax. Tax benefits decreased by
    $102 million over the comparable period in 2006 due to the
    Company s implementation of FIN 48, the difference of
    finalizing the Company s 2006 tax return in 2007 when
    compared to finalizing the Company s 2005 tax return in
    2006 and the difference between the actual and the estimated tax
    rate allocated to the various segments.

Revenues  

Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses),
    increased by $448 million, or 42%, to $1,526 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2007 from
    $1,078 million for 2006. This increase was primarily due to
    increased net investment income of $421 million, mainly on
    fixed maturity securities, driven by a higher asset base related
    to the reinvestment of proceeds from the sale of the Peter
    Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties during the fourth
    quarter of 2006 and the investment of proceeds from issuances of
    junior subordinated debt in December 2006 and December 2007 and
    collateral financing arrangements to support statutory reserves
    in May 2007 and December 2007. Net investment income also
    increased on other limited partnerships, real estate and real
    estate joint ventures, and mortgage loans. Other revenues
    increased by $29 million primarily related to the
    resolution of an indemnification claim associated with the 2000
    acquisition of GALIC, offset by an adjustment of surrender
    values on COLI policies. Also included as a component of total
    revenues was the elimination of intersegment amounts which was
    offset within total expenses.

Expenses  

Total expenses increased by $55 million, or 4%, to
    $1,455 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
    from $1,400 million for 2006. Interest expense was higher
    by $133 million due to the issuances of junior subordinated
    debt in December 2006 and December 2007 and collateral financing
    arrangements in May 2007 and December 2007, respectively, and
    from settlement fees on the prepayment of shares subject to
    mandatory redemption in October 2007, partially offset by the
    maturity of senior notes in December 2006 and the reduction of
    commercial paper outstanding. Interest on uncertain tax
    positions was higher by $35 million as a result of an
    increase in published Internal Revenue Service interest rates
    and a change in the method of estimating interest expense on tax
    contingencies associated with the Company s implementation
    of FIN 48. As a result of higher interest rates, interest
    credited on bank deposits increased by $5 million at
    MetLife Bank. Corporate expenses are lower by $90 million
    primarily due to lower corporate support expenses of
    $67 million, which included advertising,
     start-up 
    costs for new products and information technology costs, and
    lower costs from reductions of MetLife Foundation contributions
    of $23 million. Integration costs incurred in prior year
    were $25 million. Legal costs were lower by
    $11 million primarily due to a reduction in 2007 of
    $35 million of legal liabilities resulting from the
    settlement of certain cases; lower other legal costs of
    $3 million partially offset by higher amortization and
    valuation of an asbestos insurance

137

Table of Contents   

recoverable of $27 million. Also included as a component of
    total expenses was the elimination of intersegment amounts which
    were offset within total revenues.

Liquidity
    and Capital Resources  

Extraordinary
    Market Conditions  

Since mid-September 2008, the global financial markets have
    experienced unprecedented disruption, adversely affecting the
    business environment in general, as well as financial services
    companies in particular. The U.S. Government, as well as
    governments in many foreign markets in which the Company
    operates, have responded to address market imbalances and taken
    meaningful steps intended to eventually restore market
    confidence. Continuing adverse financial market conditions could
    significantly affect the Company s ability to meet
    liquidity needs and obtain capital.

Liquidity Management.   Based upon the strength
    of its franchise, diversification of its businesses and strong
    financial fundamentals, management believes that the Company has
    ample liquidity and capital resources to meet business
    requirements under current market conditions.

Processes for monitoring and managing liquidity risk, including
    liquidity stress models, have been enhanced to take into account
    the extraordinary market conditions, including the impact on
    policyholder and counterparty behavior, the ability to sell
    various investment assets and the ability to raise incremental
    funding from various sources. Management has taken steps to
    strengthen liquidity in light of its assessment of the impact of
    market conditions and will continue to monitor the situation
    closely. Asset/Liability Management ( ALM ) needs and
    opportunities are also being evaluated and managed in light of
    market conditions and, where appropriate, ALM strategies are
    adjusted to achieve management goals and objectives. The
    Company s short-term liquidity position (cash and cash
    equivalents and short term investments, excluding cash
    collateral received under the Company s securities lending
    program and in connection with derivative instruments that has
    been reinvested in cash, cash equivalents, short-term
    investments and publicly-traded securities) was
    $26.7 billion and $10.9 billion at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively. This higher than normal level of
    short-term liquidity was accumulated to provide additional
    flexibility to address potential variations in cash needs while
    credit market conditions remained distressed. In 2009, we
    anticipate short-term liquidity will be brought down in a
    prudent manner and invested according to the Company s ALM
    discipline in appropriate assets over time. There may be
    potential implications for earnings if the reinvestment process
    occurs over an extended period of time due to challenging market
    conditions or asset availability. The asset portfolio will
    continue to be defensively positioned in 2009 with an emphasis
    on higher credit quality, more liquid asset types. However,
    considering the continued, somewhat uncertain credit market
    conditions, management plans to continue to maintain a slightly
    higher than normal level of short-term liquidity.

During this extraordinary market environment, management is
    continuously monitoring and adjusting its liquidity and capital
    plans for the Holding Company and its subsidiaries in light of
    changing needs and opportunities. The dislocation in the credit
    markets has limited the access of financial institutions to
    long-term debt and hybrid capital. While, in general, yields on
    benchmark U.S. Treasury securities were historically low
    during 2008, related spreads on debt instruments, in general,
    and those of financial institutions, specifically, were as high
    as they have been in MetLife s history as a public company.

Liquidity Needs of the Insurance
    Business.   With respect to the Company s
    insurance businesses, Individual and Institutional segments tend
    to behave differently under these extraordinary market
    conditions. In the Company s Individual segment, which
    includes individual life and annuity products, lapses and
    surrenders occur in the normal course of business in many
    product areas. These lapses and surrenders have not deviated
    materially from management expectations during the financial
    crisis. For both fixed and variable annuities, net flows were
    positive and lapse rates declined.

Within the Institutional segment, the retirement  
    savings business consists of general account values of
    $101 billion at December 31, 2008. Approximately,
    $97 billion of that amount is comprised of pension
    closeouts, other fixed annuity contracts without surrender or
    withdrawal options, as well as global GICs that have stated
    maturities and cannot be put back to the Company prior to
    maturity. As a result, the surrenders or withdrawals are

138

Table of Contents   

fairly predictable and even during this difficult environment
    they have not deviated materially from management expectations.

With regard to Institutional s retirement  
    savings liabilities where customers have limited liquidity
    rights at December 31, 2008, there were $3 billion of
    funding agreements that could be put back to the Company after a
    period of notice. While the notice requirements vary, the
    shortest is 90 days, and that applies to only
    $1 billion of these liabilities. The remainder of the
    notice periods are between 6 and 13 months, so even on the
    small portion of the portfolio where there is ability to
    accelerate withdrawal, the exposure is relatively limited. With
    respect to credit ratings downgrade triggers that permit early
    termination, less than $1 billion of the
    retirement   savings liabilities were subject to such
    triggers. In addition, such early terminations payments are
    subject to 90 day prior notice. Management controls the
    liquidity exposure that can arise from these various product
    features.

Securities Lending.   The Company s
    securities lending business has been affected by the
    extraordinary market environment. In this activity, blocks of
    securities, which are included in fixed maturity and short-term
    investments, are loaned to third parties, primarily major
    brokerage firms and commercial banks. The Company generally
    requires a minimum of 102% of the current estimated fair value
    of the loaned securities to be obtained at inception of a loan,
    and maintained at a level greater than or equal to 100% for
    duration of the loan. During the extraordinary market events
    occurring in the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company, in limited
    instances, accepted collateral less than 102% at the inception
    of certain loans, but never less than 100%, of the market value
    of loaned such loaned securities. These loans involved
    U.S. Treasury bills, which are considered to have limited
    variation in their market value during the term of the loan.
    Securities with a cost or amortized cost of $20.8 billion
    and $41.1 billion and an estimated fair value of
    $22.9 billion and $42.1 billion were on loan under the
    program at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
    Securities loaned under such transactions may be sold or
    repledged by the transferee. The Company was liable for cash
    collateral under its control of $23.3 billion and
    $43.3 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. Of this $23.3 billion of cash collateral at
    December 31, 2008, $5.1 billion was on open terms,
    meaning that the related loaned security could be returned to
    the Company on the next business day requiring return of cash
    collateral and $14.7 billion and $3.5 billion are due
    within 30 days and 60 days, respectively. The
    estimated fair value of the securities related to the cash
    collateral on open at December 31, 2008 has been reduced to
    $5.0 billion from $15.8 billion at November 30,
    2008. Of the $5.0 billion of estimated fair value of the
    securities related to the cash collateral on open at
    December 31, 2008, $4.4 billion were
    U.S. Treasury and agency securities which, if put to the
    Company, could be immediately sold to satisfy the cash
    requirements. The remainder of the securities on loan are
    primarily U.S. Treasury and agency securities and very
    liquid residential mortgage-backed securities. The
    U.S. Treasury securities on loan were primarily holdings of
     on-the-run 
    U.S. Treasury securities, the most liquid
    U.S. Treasury securities available. If these high quality
    securities that were on loan were put back to the Company, the
    proceeds from immediately selling these securities could be used
    to satisfy the related cash requirements. The estimated fair
    value of the reinvestment portfolio acquired with the cash
    collateral was $19.5 billion at December 31, 2008, and
    consisted principally of fixed maturity securities (including
    residential mortgage-backed, asset-backed, U.S. corporate
    and foreign corporate securities). If the on loan securities or
    the reinvestment portfolio were to become less liquid, the
    Company has the liquidity resources of most of its general
    account available to meet any potential cash demand when
    securities are put back to the Company. Based upon present
    market conditions, management anticipates the securities lending
    programs will be maintained in the $18 to $25 billion
    range. This estimate has been factored into the Company s
    liquidity and investment plans. Management plans to continue to
    lend securities and believes it has appropriate policies and
    guidelines in place to manage this activity at a reduced level
    through this extraordinary business environment. See
       Investments   Securities
    Lending. 

Internal Asset Transfers.   MetLife employs an
    internal asset transfer process that allows for the sale of
    securities among the business portfolio segments for the
    purposes of efficient asset/liability matching. The execution of
    the internally transferred assets is permitted when mutually
    beneficial to both business segments. The asset is transferred
    at estimated fair market value with corresponding gains (losses)
    being eliminated in Corporate   Other.

During the fourth quarter of 2008, at a time of severe market
    disruption, internal asset transfers were utilized extensively
    to preserve economic value for MetLife by transferring assets
    across business segments instead of selling them to external
    parties at depressed market prices. Securities with an estimated
    fair value of $11.3 billion

139

Table of Contents   

were transferred across business segments in the fourth quarter
    of 2008 generating $1.4 billion in net investment losses,
    principally within Individual and Institutional, with the offset
    in Corporate   Other s net investment gains
    (losses).

Collateral.   The Company does not operate a
    financial guarantee or financial products business with
    exposures in derivative products that could give rise to
    extremely large collateral calls. The Company is a net receiver
    of collateral from counterparties under the Company s
    current derivative transactions. With respect to derivative
    transactions with credit ratings downgrade triggers, a two notch
    downgrade would impact the Company s derivative collateral
    requirements by less than $200 million at December 31,
    2008. As a result, the Company does not have significant
    exposure to any credit ratings dependent liquidity factors
    resulting from current derivatives positions.

Holding Company.   The Holding Company relies
    principally on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its cash
    requirements. None of the Holding Company long-term debt is due
    before 2011, so there is no near-term roll-over risk. The
    Holding Company s commercial paper program, which amounts
    to $300 million at December 31, 2008, is kept active
    but is not used to fund on-going operating business
    requirements. In addition to its other fixed obligations, the
    Holding Company has and may be required to pledge further
    collateral under collateral support agreements if the estimated
    fair value of the related derivatives
     and/or 
    collateral financing arrangements declines. The Holding Company
    holds significant liquid assets of $2.7 billion at
    December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2008, the Holding
    Company had pledged $820 million of liquid assets under
    collateral support agreements. See
       Investments   Assets on Deposit,
    Held in Trust and Pledged as Collateral. 

Government Programs.   The Company is
    participating in certain economic stabilization programs
    established by various government institutions as described
    under  The Company   Liquidity and Capital
    Resources. 

Capital.   This shift resulted in a relative
    increase in the cost of new debt capital and new credit. For
    example, in August 2008, MetLife remarketed senior unsecured
    debt with a ten-year maturity at a 6.817% coupon. At
    December 31, 2008, the average coupon on ten-year senior
    unsecured debt of the Holding Company, excluding the debt
    remarketed in August 2008, is 5.40%, or 1.40% less than that of
    the debt remarketed in August 2008.

MetLife has no floating rate debt, other than that of the
    collateral financing arrangements of $5.2 billion which
    float based upon
     3-month 
    LIBOR and the proceeds of which are invested in floating rate
    assets, and has issued $600 million in a single series of
    LIBOR-based preferred stock with a 4% floor. This series
    represents a small portion of MetLife s fixed charges. At
    current levels, LIBOR would have to increase by 180 basis
    points (over 145% increase) to have any impact on the dividend
    for these preferred securities.

MetLife amended and restated certain of its credit agreements in
    December 2008. These changes included increases in pricing for
    these agreements compared to the original rates.

In February 2009, the Holding Company closed the successful
    remarketing of the Series B portion of the junior
    subordinated debentures underlying the common equity units. The
    Series B junior subordinated debentures were modified as
    permitted by their terms to be 7.717% senior debt securities,
    Series B, due February 15, 2019. See
       Subsequent Events.  This issuance
    reflects a moderate increase in the Company s cost of
    borrowing.

As discussed above, market values experienced significant
    volatility during the third and fourth quarters of 2008. This
    market disruption impacted unrealized gains and losses, which
    are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
    To strengthen our capital position and increase our cushion
    against potential realized and unrealized losses in October
    2008, the Company issued common stock for gross proceeds of
    $2.3 billion to be used for general corporate purposes and
    potential strategic initiatives.

MetLife has no current plans to raise additional capital.

140

Table of Contents   

The
    Company  

Capital   

Capital and liquidity represent the financial strength of the
    Company and reflect its ability to generate strong cash flows at
    the operating companies, borrow funds at competitive rates and
    raise additional capital to meet operating and growth needs. To
    strengthen its capital position, in October 2008, the Company
    issued $2.3 billion of common stock. The Company s
    capital structure is managed to maintain a  AA 
    financial strength ratings target.

Statutory Capital and Dividends.   Our insurance
    subsidiaries have statutory surplus and RBC levels well above
    levels to meet current regulatory requirements and levels needed
    to support the business risk at an  AA  financial
    strength rating.

RBC requirements are used as minimum capital requirements by the
    National Association of Insurance Commissioners
    ( NAIC ) and the state insurance departments to
    identify companies that merit further regulatory action. RBC is
    based on a formula calculated by applying factors to various
    asset, premium and statutory reserve items. The formula takes
    into account the risk characteristics of the insurer, including
    asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and business risk
    and is calculated on an annual basis. The formula is used as an
    early warning regulatory tool to identify possible inadequately
    capitalized insurers for purposes of initiating regulatory
    action, and not as a means to rank insurers generally. These
    rules apply to each of the Holding Company s domestic
    insurance subsidiaries. State insurance laws provide insurance
    regulators the authority to require various actions by, or take
    various actions against, insurers whose total adjusted capital
    does not exceed certain RBC levels. At the date of the most
    recent annual statutory financial statements filed with
    insurance regulators, the total adjusted capital of each of
    these subsidiaries was in excess of each of those RBC levels.

The amount of dividends that our insurance subsidiaries can pay
    to MetLife, Inc. or other parent entities is constrained by the
    amount of surplus we hold to maintain our ratings, and to
    provide an additional margin for risk protection and for future
    investment in our businesses. We proactively take actions to
    maintain capital consistent with these ratings objectives, which
    may include adjusting dividend amounts and redeploying financial
    resources from internal or external sources of capital. Certain
    of these activities may require regulatory approval.

Rating Agencies.   The rating agencies assign
    insurer financial strength ratings to the Company s
    domestic life subsidiaries and credit ratings to subsidiaries of
    the Company which directly issue or guarantee substantially all
    of the Company s senior unsecured obligations. The level
    and composition of our regulatory capital at the subsidiary
    level and equity capital of the Company are among the many
    factors considered in determining the Company s insurer
    financial strength and credit ratings. Each agency has its own
    capital adequacy evaluation methodology and assessments are
    generally based on a combination of factors.

The Company s financial strength ratings targets for its
    domestic life insurance companies are  AA/Aa2/AA/A+ 
    for S P, Moody s, Fitch, and A.M. Best. The
    Company s long-term senior debt credit rating targets are
     A/A2/A/a  for S P, Moody s, Fitch, and
    A.M. Best.

In November 2008, A.M. Best downgraded the insurer
    financial strength rating for Texas Life Insurance Company from
    A to A-.

At December 31, 2008, A.M. Best, Fitch, Moody s
    and S P each had MetLife and its Subsidiaries  insurer
    financial strength and credit ratings on  stable 
    outlook; however, (i) on February 9, 2009,
    Moody s revised its outlook to  negative, 
    (ii) on February 11, 2009, Fitch revised its outlook
    to  negative  and anticipates completing its review
    within the next several weeks and will reflect those results in
    the ratings at that time, (iii) on February 20, 2009,
    A.M. Best downgraded the credit ratings of MetLife, Inc.
    and certain of its subsidiaries with a stable outlook, and
    (iv) on February 26, 2009, S P downgraded the
    insurer financial strength and credit ratings of MetLife, Inc.
    and certain of its subsidiaries, with a  substantive 
    outlook.

In September and October 2008, A.M. Best, Fitch,
    Moody s, and S P each revised its outlook for the
    U.S. life insurance sector to negative from stable. In
    January 2009, S P reiterated its negative outlook on the
    U.S. life insurance sector. Management believes that the
    rating agencies may heighten the level of scrutiny that they
    apply to such institutions, may increase the frequency and scope
    of their credit reviews, may request additional information

141

Table of Contents   

from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the
    capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency
    models for maintenance of certain ratings levels.

A downgrade in the credit or financial strength (i.e.,
    claims-paying) ratings of the Company or its subsidiaries would
    likely impact the cost and availability of unsecured financing
    for the Company and its subsidiaries and result in additional
    collateral requirements or other required payments under certain
    agreements, which are eligible to be satisfied in cash or by
    posting securities held by the subsidiaries subject to the
    agreements.

Liquidity   

Liquidity refers to a company s ability to generate
    adequate amounts of cash to meet its needs. The Company s
    liquidity position is defined as cash and cash equivalents,
    short-term investments and publicly-traded securities excluding
    (i) cash collateral received under the Company s
    securities lending program that has been reinvested in cash,
    cash equivalents, short-term investments and publicly-traded
    securities; (ii) cash collateral received from
    counterparties in connection with derivative instruments;
    (iii) cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and
    publicly-traded securities on deposit with regulatory agencies;
    and (iv) securities
     held-in-trust 
    in support of collateral financing arrangements and pledged in
    support of debt and funding agreements. The Company s
    liquidity position was $139.4 billion and
    $163.8 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

Liquidity needs are determined from a rolling
     12-month 
    forecast by portfolio and are monitored daily. Asset mix and
    maturities are adjusted based on forecast. Cash flow testing and
    stress testing provide additional perspectives on liquidity,
    which include various scenarios of the potential risk of early
    contractholder and policyholder withdrawal. Management believes
    that the Company has ample liquidity and capital resources to
    meet business requirements and unlikely but reasonably possible
    stress scenarios under current market conditions. The Company
    includes provisions limiting withdrawal rights on many of its
    products, including general account institutional pension
    products (generally group annuities, including GICs, and certain
    deposit fund liabilities) sold to employee benefit plan
    sponsors. Certain of these provisions prevent the customer from
    making withdrawals prior to the maturity date of the product.

In the event of significant unanticipated cash requirements
    beyond normal liquidity needs, the Company has various
    alternatives available depending on market conditions and the
    amount and timing of the liquidity need. These options include
    cash flows from operations, the sale of liquid assets, global
    funding sources and various credit facilities.

Under stressful market and economic conditions, liquidity
    broadly deteriorates which could negatively impact the
    Company s ability to sell investment assets. If the Company
    requires significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess
    of normal cash requirements, the Company may have difficulty
    selling investment assets in a timely manner, be forced to sell
    them for less than the Company otherwise would have been able to
    realize, or both. In addition, in the event of such forced sale,
    accounting rules require the recognition of a loss and may
    require the impairment of other such securities based upon the
    Company s ability to hold such securities which, may
    negatively impact the Company s financial statements.

In extreme circumstances, all general account assets  
    other than those which may have been pledged to a specific
    purpose   within a statutory legal entity are
    available to fund obligations of the general account within that
    legal entity. A disruption in the financial markets could limit
    the Holding Company s access to or cost of liquidity. See
     Extraordinary Market Conditions. 

Liquidity
    and Capital Sources   

Cash Flows from Operations.   The Company s
    principal cash inflows from its insurance activities come from
    insurance premiums, annuity considerations and deposit funds. A
    primary liquidity concern with respect to these cash inflows is
    the risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal.
    See  Extraordinary Market Conditions  and
     Liquidity and Capital Uses   Contractual
    Obligations. 

Cash Flows from Investments.   The
    Company s principal cash inflows from its investment
    activities come from repayments of principal, proceeds from
    maturities and sales of invested assets and net investment
    income. The primary liquidity concerns with respect to these
    cash inflows are the risk of default by debtors and market

142

Table of Contents   

volatilities. The Company closely monitors and manages these
    risks through its credit risk management process. During the
    latter half of 2008, the Company increased its short-term
    liquidity position in response to the extraordinary market
    conditions. The Company s short-term liquidity position
    defined as cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments
    excluding both cash collateral received under the Company s
    securities lending program that has been reinvested in cash,
    cash equivalents, short-term investments and collateral received
    from counterparties in connection with derivative instruments
    was $26.7 billion and $10.9 billion at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. See
       Investments   Current
    Environment. 

Liquid Assets.   An integral part of the
    Company s liquidity management is the amount of liquid
    assets it holds. Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents,
    short-term investments and publicly-traded securities excluding
    (i) cash collateral received under the Company s
    securities lending program that has been reinvested in cash,
    cash equivalents, short-term investments and publicly-traded
    securities; (ii) cash collateral received from
    counterparties in connection with derivative instruments;
    (iii) cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and
    securities on deposit with regulatory agencies; and
    (iv) securities held in trust in support of collateral
    financing arrangements and pledged in support of debt and
    funding agreements. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the
    Company had $139.4 billion and $163.8 billion in
    liquid assets, respectively. For further discussion of invested
    assets on deposit with regulatory agencies, held in trust in
    support of collateral financing arrangements and pledged in
    support of debt and funding agreements. See
       Investments   Assets on Deposit,
    Held in Trust and Pledged as Collateral. 

Global Funding Sources.   Liquidity is also
    provided by a variety of short-term instruments, including
    repurchase agreements and commercial paper. Capital is provided
    by a variety of long-term instruments, including medium- and
    long-term debt, junior subordinated debt securities, capital
    securities and stockholders  equity. The diversity of the
    Company s funding sources enhances flexibility, limits
    dependence on any one source of funds and generally lowers the
    cost of funds. See  Extraordinary Market Conditions. 

During the turbulent market conditions of 2008, the Company has
    utilized various means of short-term and long-term financing
    including:

The Company is participating in certain economic stabilization
    programs established by various government institutions. The
    Federal Reserve Bank of New York s Commercial Paper Funding
    Facility ( CPFF ) is intended to improve liquidity in
    short-term funding markets by increasing the availability of
    term commercial paper funding to issuers and by providing
    greater assurance to both issuers and investors that firms will
    be able to rollover their maturing commercial paper. MetLife
    Short Term Funding LLC, the issuer of commercial paper under a
    program supported by funding agreements issued by Metropolitan
    Life Insurance Company and MetLife Insurance Company of
    Connecticut, was accepted in October 2008 for the CPFF and may
    issue a maximum amount of $3.8 billion under the CPFF. At
    December 31, 2008, MetLife Short Term Funding LLC had used
    $1,650 million of its available capacity under the CPFF,
    and such amount was deposited under the related funding
    agreements. MetLife Funding, Inc. was accepted in November 2008
    for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York s CPFF and may
    issue a maximum amount of $1 billion under the CPFF. No
    drawdown by MetLife Funding, Inc. has taken place under this
    facility as of the date hereof. In December 2008, MetLife, Inc.
    elected to continue to participate in the debt guarantee
    component of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation s
    ( FDIC ) Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (the
     FDIC Program ). Under the terms of the FDIC Program,
    the FDIC will guarantee through June 2012 (or maturity, if
    earlier) the payment of certain newly-issued senior unsecured
    debt of MetLife, Inc. and any eligible affiliates. The Company
    also notified the FDIC that it elected the option of excluding
    specified senior unsecured debt maturing after June 30,
    2012 from the guarantee before reaching the limits on the amount
    of guaranteed debt under the FDIC Program ($398 million for
    MetLife, Inc. and $178 million for MetLife Bank, N.A. which
    may issue guaranteed debt under its limit, as well as unused
    amounts under MetLife, Inc. s limit). The Company opted out
    of the component of the FDIC Program that guarantees
    non-interest bearing deposit transaction accounts. Management
    cannot predict how the markets may react to these elections or
    to any debt issued subject to the terms of the FDIC Program.

MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Funding, Inc. each have commercial
    paper programs. The commercial paper markets have effectively
    closed to certain issuers, depending upon their ratings.
    Depending on market conditions, we may issue shorter maturities
    than we would otherwise like.

143

Table of Contents   

MetLife Bank, N.A. has pledged loans and securities with the
    Federal Reserve Bank of New York to have the capacity to borrow
    at the Discount Window or under the Term Auction Facility. At
    December 31, 2008, MetLife Bank had borrowed
    $950 million under the Term Auction Facility for various
    short-term maturities. In addition, as a member of the Federal
    Home Loan Bank of New York ( FHLB of NY ), MetLife
    Bank has entered into repurchase agreements with FHLB of NY on a
    short-term and long-term basis, with a total liability for
    repurchase agreements with the FHLB of NY of $1.8 billion
    at December 31, 2008. Management expects MetLife Bank to
    take further advantage of these funding sources in the future.
    In addition, the Company had obligations under funding
    agreements with the FHLB of NY of $15.2 billion and
    $4.6 billion at December 31, 2008 and
    December 31, 2007 respectively for MLIC and with the FHLB
    of Boston of $526 million and $726 million at
    December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 respectively
    for MICC. The FHLB of Boston had also advanced $300 million
    to MICC at December 31, 2008, which is included in
    short-term debt. In the current market environment, the Federal
    Home Loan Bank system has demonstrated its commitment to provide
    funding to its members especially through these stressful market
    conditions. Management expects the renewal of these funding
    resources. See Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements

As described below in  Debt Issuances and Other
    Borrowings  and above in  Extraordinary Market
    Conditions  the Company sold various long-term debt
    securities in August 2008 and February 2009 in connection with
    the remarketing of the junior subordinated debentures issued in
    connection with the common equity units. The Company also issued
    common stock in October 2008 as described in  Extraordinary
    Market Conditions. 

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company had outstanding
    $2.7 billion and $667 million in short-term debt,
    respectively, and $9.7 billion and $9.1 billion in
    long-term debt, respectively. At December 31, 2008 and
    2007, the Company had outstanding $5.2 billion and
    $4.9 billion in collateral financing arrangements,
    respectively, and $3.8 billion and $4.1 billion in
    junior subordinated debt, respectively. Long-term and short-term
    debt includes certain advances from the FHLB of NY.

Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings.   In April
    2008, MetLife Capital Trust X, a variable interest entity
    ( VIE ) consolidated by the Company, issued
    exchangeable surplus trust securities (the  2008
    Trust Securities ) with a face amount of
    $750 million. The 2008 Trust Securities will be
    exchanged into a like amount of the Holding Company s
    junior subordinated debentures on April 8, 2038, the
    scheduled redemption date, mandatory under certain
    circumstances, and at any time upon the Holding Company
    exercising its option to redeem the securities. The 2008
    Trust Securities will be exchanged for junior subordinated
    debentures prior to repayment. The final maturity of the
    debentures is April 8, 2068. The Holding Company may cause
    the redemption of the 2008 Trust Securities or debentures
    (i) in whole or in part, at any time on or after
    April 8, 2033 at their principal amount plus accrued and
    unpaid interest to the date of redemption, or (ii) in
    certain circumstances, in whole or in part, prior to
    April 8, 2033 at their principal amount plus accrued and
    unpaid interest to the date of redemption or, if greater, a
    make-whole price. Interest on the 2008 Trust Securities or
    debentures is payable semi-annually at a fixed rate of 9.25% up
    to, but not including, April 8, 2038, the scheduled
    redemption date. In the event the 2008 Trust Securities or
    debentures are not redeemed on or before the scheduled
    redemption date, interest will accrue at an annual rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus a margin equal to 5.540%, payable quarterly in
    arrears. The Holding Company has the right to, and in certain
    circumstances the requirement to, defer interest payments on the
    2008 Trust Securities or debentures for a period up to ten
    years. Interest compounds during such periods of deferral. If
    interest is deferred for more than five consecutive years, the
    Holding Company may be required to use proceeds from the sale of
    its common stock or warrants on common stock to satisfy its
    obligation. In connection with the issuance of the 2008
    Trust Securities, the Holding Company entered into a
    replacement capital covenant ( RCC ). As a part of the
    RCC, the Holding Company agreed that it will not repay, redeem,
    or purchase the debentures on or before April 8, 2058,
    unless, subject to certain limitations, it has received proceeds
    from the sale of specified capital securities. The RCC will
    terminate upon the occurrence of certain events, including an
    acceleration of the debentures due to the occurrence of an event
    of default. The RCC is not intended for the benefit of holders
    of the debentures and may not be enforced by them. The RCC is
    for the benefit of holders of one or more other designated
    series of its indebtedness (which will initially be its
    5.70% senior notes due June 15, 2035). The Holding
    Company also entered into a replacement capital obligation which
    will commence in 2038 and under which the Holding Company must
    use

144

Table of Contents   

reasonable commercial efforts to raise replacement capital
    through the issuance of certain qualifying capital securities.
    Issuance costs associated with the offering of the 2008
    Trust Securities of $8 million have been capitalized,
    are included in other assets, and are amortized using the
    effective interest method over the period from the issuance date
    of the 2008 Trust Securities until their scheduled
    redemption. Interest expense on the 2008 Trust Securities
    was $51 million for the year ended December 31, 2008.

In December 2007, MetLife Capital Trust IV
    ( Trust IV ), a VIE consolidated by the Company,
    issued exchangeable surplus trust securities (the  2007
    Trust Securities ) with a face amount of
    $700 million and a discount of $6 million
    ($694 million). The 2007 Trust Securities will be
    exchanged into a like amount of Holding Company junior
    subordinated debentures on December 15, 2037, the scheduled
    redemption date; mandatorily under certain circumstances; and at
    any time upon the Holding Company exercising its option to
    redeem the securities. The 2007 Trust Securities will be
    exchanged for junior subordinated debentures prior to repayment.
    The final maturity of the debentures is December 15, 2067.
    The Holding Company may cause the redemption of the 2007
    Trust Securities or debentures (i) in whole or in
    part, at any time on or after December 15, 2032 at their
    principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of
    redemption, or (ii) in certain circumstances, in whole or
    in part, prior to December 15, 2032 at their principal
    amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of
    redemption or, if greater, a make-whole price. Interest on the
    2007 Trust Securities or debentures is payable
    semi-annually at a fixed rate of 7.875% up to, but not
    including, December 15, 2037, the scheduled redemption
    date. In the event the 2007 Trust Securities or debentures
    are not redeemed on or before the scheduled redemption date,
    interest will accrue at an annual rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus a margin equal to 3.96%, payable quarterly in
    arrears. The Holding Company has the right to, and in certain
    circumstances the requirement to, defer interest payments on the
    2007 Trust Securities or debentures for a period up to ten
    years. Interest compounds during such periods of deferral. If
    interest is deferred for more than five consecutive years, the
    Holding Company may be required to use proceeds from the sale of
    its common stock or warrants on common stock to satisfy its
    obligation. In connection with the issuance of the 2007
    Trust Securities, the Holding Company entered into a RCC.
    As a part of the RCC, the Holding Company agreed that it will
    not repay, redeem, or purchase the debentures on or before
    December 15, 2057, unless, subject to certain limitations,
    it has received proceeds from the sale of specified capital
    securities. The RCC will terminate upon the occurrence of
    certain events, including an acceleration of the debentures due
    to the occurrence of an event of default. The RCC is not
    intended for the benefit of holders of the debentures and may
    not be enforced by them. The RCC is for the benefit of holders
    of one or more other designated series of its indebtedness
    (which will initially be its 5.70% senior notes due
    June 15, 2035). The Holding Company also entered into a
    replacement capital obligation which will commence in 2037 and
    under which the Holding Company must use reasonable commercial
    efforts to raise replacement capital through the issuance of
    certain qualifying capital securities. Issuance costs associated
    with the offering of the 2007 Trust Securities of
    $10 million have been capitalized, are included in other
    assets, and are amortized using the effective interest method
    over the period from the issuance date of the 2007
    Trust Securities until their scheduled redemption. Interest
    expense on the 2007 Trust Securities was $55 million
    and $3 million, for the years ended December 31, 2008
    and 2007, respectively.

In December 2007, MLIC reinsured a portion of its closed block
    liabilities to MetLife Reinsurance Company of Charleston, a
    wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. In connection with this
    transaction, MRC issued, to investors placed by an unaffiliated
    financial institution, $2.5 billion of 35 year surplus
    notes to provide statutory reserve support for the assumed
    closed block liabilities. Interest on the surplus notes accrues
    at an annual rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.55%, payable quarterly. The ability of MRC to make
    interest and principal payments on the surplus notes is
    contingent upon South Carolina regulatory approval. At both
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, surplus notes outstanding were
    $2.5 billion. Simultaneous with the issuance of the surplus
    notes, the Holding Company entered into an agreement with the
    unaffiliated financial institution, under which the Holding
    Company is entitled to the interest paid by MRC on the surplus
    notes of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.55% in exchange for the payment of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 1.12%, payable quarterly on such amount as adjusted,
    as described below. Under this agreement, the Holding Company
    may also be required to pledge collateral or make payments to
    the unaffiliated financial institution related to any decline in
    the estimated fair value of the surplus notes. Any such payments
    would be accounted for as a receivable and included under other
    assets on the Company s consolidated financial statements
    and would not reduce the principal amount outstanding of the
    surplus notes. In addition, the Holding Company may also be
    required to make a payment to the unaffiliated financial
    institution in connection with any early termination of this
    agreement. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the

145

Table of Contents   

Holding Company paid $800 million to the unaffiliated
    financial institution related to a decline in the estimated fair
    value of the surplus notes. This payment reduced the amount
    under the agreement on which the Holding Company s interest
    payment is due but did not reduce the outstanding amount of the
    surplus notes. In addition, the Holding Company had pledged
    collateral of $230 million to the unaffiliated financial
    institution at December 31, 2008. No collateral had been
    pledged at December 31, 2007. A majority of the proceeds
    from the offering of the surplus notes were placed in trust,
    which is consolidated by the Company, to support MRC s
    statutory obligations associated with the assumed closed block
    liabilities. During 2007 and 2008, the Company deposited
    $2.0 billion and $314 million, respectively, into the
    trust, from the proceeds of the surplus notes issued in 2007. At
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, the estimated fair value of
    assets held in trust by the Company was $2.1 billion and
    $2.0 billion, respectively. The assets are principally
    invested in fixed maturity securities and are presented as such
    within the Company s consolidated balance sheet, with the
    related income included within net investment income in the
    Company s consolidated income statement. Interest on the
    collateral financing arrangement is included as a component of
    other expenses. Total interest expense was $117 million and
    $5 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and
    2007, respectively. See  The Holding Company  
    Liquidity and Capital Uses   Support Agreements 
    for a description of the support arrangement entered into in
    connection with this transaction.

In May 2007, the Holding Company and MetLife Reinsurance Company
    of South Carolina ( MRSC ), a wholly-owned subsidiary
    of the Company, entered into a
     30-year 
    collateral financing arrangement with an unaffiliated financial
    institution that provides up to $3.5 billion of statutory
    reserve support for MRSC associated with reinsurance obligations
    under intercompany reinsurance agreements. Such statutory
    reserves are associated with universal life secondary guarantees
    and are required under U.S. Valuation of Life Policies
    Model Regulation (commonly referred to as
     Regulation A-XXX). 
    At December 31, 2008 and 2007, $2.7 billion and
    $2.4 billion, respectively, had been drawn upon under the
    collateral financing arrangement. The collateral financing
    arrangement may be extended by agreement of the Holding Company
    and the unaffiliated financial institution on each anniversary
    of the closing. Proceeds from the collateral financing
    arrangement were placed in trust to support MRSC s
    statutory obligations associated with the reinsurance of
    secondary guarantees. The trust is a VIE which is consolidated
    by the Company. The unaffiliated financial institution is
    entitled to the return on the investment portfolio held by the
    trust. In connection with the collateral financing arrangement,
    the Holding Company entered into an agreement with the same
    unaffiliated financial institution under which the Holding
    Company is entitled to the return on the investment portfolio
    held by the trust established in connection with this collateral
    financing arrangement in exchange for the payment of a stated
    rate of return to the unaffiliated financial institution of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.70%, payable quarterly. The Holding Company may
    also be required to make payments to the unaffiliated financial
    institution, for deposit into the trust, related to any decline
    in the estimated fair value of the assets held by the trust, as
    well as amounts outstanding upon maturity or early termination
    of the collateral financing arrangement. For the year ended
    December 31, 2008, the Holding Company paid
    $320 million to the unaffiliated financial institution as a
    result of the decline in the estimated fair value of the assets
    in the trust. All of the $320 million was deposited into
    the trust. In January 2009, the Holding Company paid an
    additional $360 million to the unaffiliated financial
    institution as a result of the continued decline in the
    estimated fair value of the assets in trust which was also
    deposited into the trust. In addition, the Holding Company may
    be required to pledge collateral to the unaffiliated financial
    institution under this agreement. At December 31, 2008, the
    Holding Company had pledged $86 million under the
    agreement. No collateral had been pledged under the agreement at
    December 31, 2007. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the
    Company held assets in trust with an estimated fair value of
    $2.4 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively,
    associated with this transaction. The assets are principally
    invested in fixed maturity securities and are presented as such
    within the Company s consolidated balance sheet, with the
    related income included within net investment income in the
    Company s consolidated income statement. Interest on the
    collateral financing arrangement is included as a component of
    other expenses. Transaction costs associated with the collateral
    financing arrangement of $5 million have been capitalized,
    are included in other assets, and are amortized using the
    effective interest method over the period from the issuance of
    the collateral financing arrangement to its expiration. Total
    interest expense was $107 million and $84 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
    See  The Holding Company   Liquidity and Capital
    Uses   Support Agreements  for a description of
    the support arrangement entered into in connection with this
    transaction.

In December 2006, the Holding Company issued junior subordinated
    debentures with a face amount of $1.25 billion. The
    debentures are scheduled for redemption on December 15,
    2036; the final maturity of the

146

Table of Contents   

debentures is December 15, 2066. The Holding Company may
    redeem the debentures (i) in whole or in part, at any time
    on or after December 15, 2031 at their principal amount
    plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, or
    (ii) in certain circumstances, in whole or in part, prior
    to December 15, 2031 at their principal amount plus accrued
    and unpaid interest to the date of redemption or, if greater, a
    make-whole price. Interest is payable semi-annually at a fixed
    rate of 6.40% up to, but not including, December 15, 2036,
    the scheduled redemption date. In the event the debentures are
    not redeemed on or before the scheduled redemption date,
    interest will accrue at an annual rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus a margin equal to 2.205%, payable quarterly in
    arrears. The Holding Company has the right to, and in certain
    circumstances the requirement to, defer interest payments on the
    debentures for a period up to ten years. Interest compounds
    during such periods of deferral. If interest is deferred for
    more than five consecutive years, the Holding Company may be
    required to use proceeds from the sale of its common stock or
    warrants on common stock to satisfy its obligation. In
    connection with the issuance of the debentures, the Holding
    Company entered into a RCC. As part of the RCC, the Holding
    Company agreed that it will not repay, redeem, or purchase the
    debentures on or before December 15, 2056, unless, subject
    to certain limitations, it has received proceeds from the sale
    of specified capital securities. The RCC will terminate upon the
    occurrence of certain events, including an acceleration of the
    debentures due to the occurrence of an event of default. The RCC
    is not intended for the benefit of holders of the debentures and
    may not be enforced by them. The RCC is for the benefit of
    holders of one or more other designated series of its
    indebtedness (which will initially be its 5.70% senior
    notes due June 15, 2035). The Holding Company also entered
    into a replacement capital obligation which will commence in
    2036 and under which the Holding Company must use reasonable
    commercial efforts to raise replacement capital through the
    issuance of certain qualifying capital securities. Issuance
    costs associated with the offering of the debentures of
    $13 million have been capitalized, are included in other
    assets, and are amortized using the effective interest method
    over the period from the issuance date of the debentures until
    their scheduled redemption. Interest expense on the debentures
    was $80 million, $80 million and $2 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.

MetLife Bank has entered into several repurchase agreements with
    the FHLB of NY whereby MetLife Bank has issued repurchase
    agreements in exchange for cash and for which the FHLB of NY has
    been granted a blanket lien on MetLife Bank s residential
    mortgages and mortgage-backed securities to collateralize
    MetLife Bank s obligations under the repurchase agreements.
    The repurchase agreements and the related security agreement
    represented by this blanket lien provide that upon any event of
    default by MetLife Bank, the FHLB of NY s recovery is
    limited to the amount of MetLife Bank s liability under the
    outstanding repurchase agreements. During the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, MetLife Bank received
    advances totaling $220 million, $390 million and
    $260 million, respectively, from the FHLB of NY, which were
    included in long-term debt. MetLife Bank also made repayments of
    $371 million, $175 million and $117 million to
    the FHLB of NY during the years ended December 31, 2008,
    2007 and 2006, respectively. In addition, in 2008 following the
    acquisition of a mortgage origination and servicing business,
    MetLife Bank began a program of taking short-term advances from
    the FHLB of NY. The amount of the Company s liability for
    repurchase agreements with the FHLB of NY that is included in
    long-term debt was $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively and the amount
    that is included in short-term debt was $695 million at
    December 31, 2008.

MetLife Funding, Inc. ( MetLife Funding ), a
    subsidiary of MLIC, serves as a centralized finance unit for the
    Company. Pursuant to a support agreement, MLIC has agreed to
    cause MetLife Funding to have a tangible net worth of at least
    one dollar. At both December 31, 2008 and 2007, MetLife
    Funding had a tangible net worth of $12 million. MetLife
    Funding raises cash from various funding sources and uses the
    proceeds to extend loans, through MetLife Credit Corp., another
    subsidiary of MLIC, to the Holding Company, MLIC and other
    affiliates. MetLife Funding manages its funding sources to
    enhance the financial flexibility and liquidity of MLIC and
    other affiliated companies. At December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    MetLife Funding had total outstanding liabilities, including
    accrued interest payable, of $414 million and
    $358 million, respectively, consisting primarily of
    commercial paper.

The Company is participating in certain economic stabilization
    programs established by various government institutions,
    including the CPFF and the FDIC program, as described above.

Credit Facilities.   The Company maintains
    committed and unsecured credit facilities aggregating
    $3.2 billion at December 31, 2008. When drawn upon,
    these facilities bear interest at varying rates in accordance
    with the respective agreements as specified below. The
    facilities can be used for general corporate purposes and, at

147

Table of Contents   

December 31, 2008, $2.9 billion of the facilities also
    served as
     back-up 
    lines of credit for the Company s commercial paper
    programs. Management has no reason to believe that its lending
    counterparties are unable to fulfill their respective
    contractual obligations.

Total fees associated with these credit facilities were
    $17 million, of which $11 million related to deferred
    amendment fees for the year ended December 31, 2008.
    Information on these credit facilities at December 31, 2008
    is as follows:

(1)  

In December 2008, the Holding Company and MetLife Funding, Inc.
    entered into an amended and restated $2.85 billion credit
    agreement with various financial institutions. The agreement
    amended and restated the $3.0 billion credit agreement
    entered into in June 2007. Proceeds are available to be used for
    general corporate purposes, to support their commercial paper
    programs and for the issuance of letters of credit. The Company
    limits its commercial paper outstanding relative to the amount
    of unused commitments under this facility. All borrowings under
    the credit agreement must be repaid by June 2012, except that
    letters of credit outstanding upon termination may remain
    outstanding until June 2013. The borrowers and the lenders under
    this facility may agree to extend the term of all or part of the
    facility to no later than June 2014, except that letters of
    credit outstanding upon termination may remain outstanding until
    June 2015. Fees for this agreement include a 0.25% facility fee,
    0.075% fronting fee, a letter of credit fee between 1% and 5%
    based on certain market rates and a 0.05% utilization fee, as
    applicable, and may vary based on MetLife, Inc. s senior
    unsecured ratings. The Holding Company and MetLife Funding, Inc.
    incurred amendment costs of $11 million related to the
    $2,850 million amended and restated credit agreement, which
    have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs
    will be amortized over the term of the agreement. The Holding
    Company did not have any deferred financing costs associated
    with the original June 2007 credit agreement. 

(2)  

In July 2008, the facility was increased by $100 million
    and its maturity extended for one year to July 2009. Fees for
    this agreement include a commitment fee of $10,000 and a margin
    of Federal Funds plus 0.11%, as applicable. 

Committed Facilities.   The Company maintains
    committed facilities aggregating $11.5 billion at
    December 31, 2008. When drawn upon, these facilities bear
    interest at varying rates in accordance with the respective
    agreements as specified below. The facilities are used for
    collateral for certain of the Company s insurance
    liabilities. Management has no reason to believe that its
    lending counterparties are unable to fulfill their contractual
    obligations.

148

Table of Contents   

Total fees associated with these committed facilities were
    $35 million, of which $13 million related to deferred
    amendment fees for the year ended December 31, 2008.
    Information on committed facilities at December 31, 2008 is
    as follows:

(1)  

In December 2008, the Holding Company entered into an amended
    and restated one year $500 million letter of credit
    facility (dated as of August 2008 and amended and restated at
    December 31, 2008), with an unaffiliated financial
    institution, Exeter Reassurance Company, Ltd.
    ( Exeter ) is a co-applicant under this letter of
    credit facility. This letter of credit facility matures in
    August 2009, except that letters of credit outstanding upon
    termination may remain outstanding until August 2010. Fees for
    this agreement include a margin of 2.25% and a utilization fee
    of 0.05%, as applicable. The Holding Company incurred amendment
    costs of $1.3 million related to the $500 million
    amended and restated letter of credit facility, which has been
    capitalized and included in other assets. These costs will be
    amortized over the term of the agreement. 

(2)  

The Holding Company is a guarantor under this agreement. 

(3)  

Letters of credit and replacements or renewals thereof issued
    under this facility of $280 million, $10 million and
    $200 million are set to expire no later than December 2015,
    March 2016 and June 2016, respectively. 

(4)  

In December 2008, Exeter, as borrower, and the Holding Company,
    as guarantor, entered into an amendment of an existing credit
    agreement with an unaffiliated financial institution. Issuances
    under this facility are set to expire in December 2027. Exeter
    incurred amendment costs of $1.6 million related to the
    amendment of the existing credit agreement, which have been
    capitalized and included in other assets. These costs will be
    amortized over the term of the agreement. 

(5)  

In May 2007, MRSC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company,
    terminated the $2.0 billion amended and restated five-year
    letter of credit and reimbursement agreement entered into among
    the Holding Company, MRSC and various financial institutions on
    April 25, 2005. In its place, the Company entered into a
     30-year 
    collateral financing arrangement as described in Note 11 of
    the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which may be
    extended by agreement of the Company and the financial
    institution on each anniversary of the closing of the facility
    for an additional one-year period. At December 31, 2008,
    $2.7 billion had been drawn upon under the collateral
    financing arrangement. 

(6)  

In December 2007, Exeter terminated four letters of credit, with
    expirations from March 2025 through December 2026, which were
    issued under a letter of credit facility with an unaffiliated
    financial institution in an aggregate amount of
    $1.7 billion. The letters of credit had served as
    collateral for Exeter s obligations under a reinsurance
    agreement that was recaptured by MetLife Investors USA Insurance
    Company ( MLI-USA ) in December 2007. MLI-USA
    immediately thereafter entered into a new reinsurance agreement
    with MetLife Reinsurance Company of Vermont ( MRV ).
    To collateralize its reinsurance obligations, MRV and the
    Holding Company entered into a
     30-year, 
    $2.9 billion letter of credit facility with an unaffiliated
    financial institution. 

149

Table of Contents   

(7)  

In September 2008, MRV and the Holding Company entered into a
     30-year, 
    $3.5 billion letter of credit facility with an unaffiliated
    financial institution. These letters of credit serve as
    collateral for MRV s obligations under a reinsurance
    agreement. 

Letters of Credit.   At December 31, 2008,
    the Company had outstanding $6.6 billion in letters of
    credit from various financial institutions of which
    $4.3 billion and $2.3 billion were part of committed
    and credit facilities, respectively. As commitments associated
    with letters of credit and financing arrangements may expire
    unused, these amounts do not necessarily reflect the
    Company s actual future cash funding requirements.

Covenants.   Certain of the Company s debt
    instruments, credit facilities and committed facilities contain
    various administrative, reporting, legal and financial
    covenants. The Company believes it is in compliance with all
    covenants at December 31, 2008 and 2007.

Liquidity
    and Capital Uses   

Debt Repayments.   On October 31, 2007, the
    Company redeemed $125 million of 8.525% GenAmerica Capital
    I Capital Securities which were due to mature on June 30,
    2027. As a result of this repayment, the Company recognized
    additional interest expense of $10 million.

During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    MetLife Bank made repayments of $371 million,
    $175 million, and $117 million, respectively, to the
    FHLB of NY related to long-term borrowings. During the year
    ended December 31, 2008, MetLife Bank made repayments of
    $4.6 billion to the FHLB of NY and $650 million to the
    Federal Reserve Bank of New York related to short-term
    borrowings. See  Liquidity and Capital Sources  
    Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings  for further
    information.

The Holding Company repaid a $500 million 5.25% senior
    note which matured in December 2006.

Insurance Liabilities.   The Company s
    principal cash outflows primarily relate to the liabilities
    associated with its various life insurance, property and
    casualty, annuity and group pension products, operating expenses
    and income tax, as well as principal and interest on its
    outstanding debt obligations. Liabilities arising from its
    insurance activities primarily relate to benefit payments under
    the aforementioned products, as well as payments for policy
    surrenders, withdrawals and loans. See  Contractual
    Obligations. 

Investment and Other.   Additional cash outflows
    include those related to obligations of securities lending
    activities, investments in real estate, limited partnerships and
    joint ventures, as well as litigation-related liabilities.

Securities Lending.   The Company participates
    in a securities lending program whereby blocks of securities,
    which are included in fixed maturity and equity securities, are
    loaned to third parties, primarily major brokerage firms and
    commercial banks. The Company requires collateral equal to 102%
    of the current estimated fair value of the loaned securities to
    be obtained at the inception of a loan, and maintained at a
    level greater than or equal to 100% for the duration of the
    loan. During the extraordinary market events occurring in the
    fourth quarter of 2008, the Company, in limited instances,
    accepted collateral less than 102% at the inception of certain
    loans, but never less than 100%, of the estimated fair value of
    such loaned securities. These loans involved U.S. Treasury
    Bills which are considered to have limited variation in their
    estimated fair value during the term of the loan. The Company
    was liable for cash collateral under its control of
    $23.3 billion and $43.3 billion at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively. During the unprecedented market
    disruption since mid-September 2008, the demand for securities
    loans from the Company s counterparties has decreased. The
    volume of securities lending has decreased in line with reduced
    demand from counterparties and reduced trading capacity of
    certain segments of the fixed income securities market. See
     Extraordinary Market Conditions  for further
    information.

150

Table of Contents   

Contractual
    Obligations  

The following table summarizes the Company s major
    contractual obligations at December 31, 2008:

(1)  

Future policyholder benefits include liabilities related to
    traditional whole life policies, term life policies, closeout
    and other group annuity contracts, structured settlements,
    master terminal funding agreements, single premium immediate
    annuities, long-term disability policies, individual disability
    income policies, LTC policies and property and casualty
    contracts. 

Included within future policyholder benefits are contracts where
    the Company is currently making payments and will continue to do
    so until the occurrence of a specific event such as death, as
    well as those where the timing of a portion of the payments has
    been determined by the contract. Also included are contracts
    where the Company is not currently making payments and will not
    make payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such
    as death or illness, or where the occurrence of the payment
    triggering event, such as a surrender of a policy or contract,
    is outside the control of the Company. The Company has estimated
    the timing of the cash flows related to these contracts based on
    historical experience as well as its expectation of future
    payment patterns. 

Liabilities related to accounting conventions or which are not
    contractually due, such as shadow liabilities, excess interest
    reserves and property and casualty loss adjustment expenses of
    $303 million, have been excluded from amounts presented in
    the table above. 

Amounts presented in the table above, excluding those related to
    property and casualty contracts, represent the estimated cash
    payments for benefits under such contracts including assumptions
    related to the receipt of future premiums and assumptions
    related to mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal,
    retirement, inflation, disability incidence, disability
    terminations, policy loans and other contingent events as
    appropriate to the respective product type. Payments for case
    reserve liabilities and incurred but not reported liabilities
    associated with property and casualty contracts of
    $1.5 billion have been included using an estimate of the
    ultimate amount to be settled under the policies based upon
    historical payment patterns. The ultimate amount to be paid
    under property and casualty contracts is not determined until
    the Company reaches a settlement with the claimant, which may
    vary significantly from the liability or contractual obligation
    presented above especially as it relates to incurred but not
    reported liabilities. All estimated cash payments presented in
    the table above are undiscounted as to interest, net of
    estimated future premiums on policies currently in-force and
    gross of any reinsurance recoverable. The more than five years
    category displays estimated payments due for periods extending
    for more than 100 years from the present date. 

151

Table of Contents   

The sum of the estimated cash flows shown for all years in the
    table of $316.2 billion exceeds the liability amount of
    $130.6 billion included on the consolidated balance sheet
    principally due to the time value of money, which accounts for
    at least 80% of the difference, as well as differences in
    assumptions, most significantly mortality, between the date the
    liabilities were initially established and the current date. 

For the majority of the Company s insurance operations,
    estimated contractual obligations for future policy benefits and
    policyholder account balance liabilities as presented in the
    table above are derived from the annual asset adequacy analysis
    used to develop actuarial opinions of statutory reserve adequacy
    for state regulatory purposes. These cash flows are materially
    representative of the cash flows under generally accepted
    accounting principles. 

Actual cash payments to policyholders may differ significantly
    from the liabilities as presented in the consolidated balance
    sheet and the estimated cash payments as presented in the table
    above due to differences between actual experience and the
    assumptions used in the establishment of these liabilities and
    the estimation of these cash payments. 

(2)  

Policyholder account balances include liabilities related to
    conventional guaranteed investment contracts, guaranteed
    investment contracts associated with formal offering programs,
    funding agreements, individual and group annuities, total
    control accounts, bank deposits, individual and group universal
    life, variable universal life and company-owned life insurance. 

Included within policyholder account balances are contracts
    where the amount and timing of the payment is essentially fixed
    and determinable. These amounts relate to policies where the
    Company is currently making payments and will continue to do so,
    as well as those where the timing of the payments has been
    determined by the contract. Other contracts involve payment
    obligations where the timing of future payments is uncertain and
    where the Company is not currently making payments and will not
    make payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such
    as death, or where the occurrence of the payment triggering
    event, such as a surrender of or partial withdrawal on a policy
    or deposit contract, is outside the control of the Company. The
    Company has estimated the timing of the cash flows related to
    these contracts based on historical experience, as well as its
    expectation of future payment patterns. 

Excess interest reserves representing purchase accounting
    adjustments of $692 million have been excluded from amounts
    presented in the table above as they represent an accounting
    convention and not a contractual obligation. 

Amounts presented in the table above represent the estimated
    cash payments to be made to policyholders undiscounted as to
    interest and including assumptions related to the receipt of
    future premiums and deposits; withdrawals, including unscheduled
    or partial withdrawals; policy lapses; surrender charges;
    annuitization; mortality; future interest credited; policy loans
    and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective
    product type. Such estimated cash payments are also presented
    net of estimated future premiums on policies currently in-force
    and gross of any reinsurance recoverable. For obligations
    denominated in foreign currencies, cash payments have been
    estimated using current spot rates. 

The sum of the estimated cash flows shown for all years in the
    table of $202.0 billion exceeds the liability amount of
    $149.8 billion included on the consolidated balance sheet
    principally due to the time value of money, which accounts for
    at least 80% of the difference, as well as differences in
    assumptions between the date the liabilities were initially
    established and the current date. See the comments under
    footnote 1 regarding the source and uncertainties associated
    with the estimation of the contractual obligations related to
    future policyholder benefits and policyholder account balances.
    See also  Extraordinary Market Conditions.  

(3)  

Other policyholder liabilities are comprised of other
    policyholder funds, policyholder dividends payable and the
    policyholder dividend obligation. Amounts included in the table
    above related to these liabilities are as follows: 

a. Other policyholder funds includes liabilities for
    incurred but not reported claims and claims payable on group
    term life, long-term disability, LTC and dental; policyholder
    dividends left on deposit and policyholder dividends due and
    unpaid related primarily to traditional life and group life and
    health; and premiums received in advance. Liabilities related to
    unearned revenue of $1.9 billion have been excluded from
    the cash payments presented in the table above because they
    reflect an accounting convention and not a contractual
    obligation. With the exception of policyholder dividends left on
    deposit, and those 

152

Table of Contents   

items excluded as noted in the preceding sentence, the
    contractual obligation presented in the table above related to
    other policyholder funds is equal to the liability reflected in
    the consolidated balance sheet. Such amounts are reported in the
    less than one year category due to the short-term nature of the
    liabilities. Contractual obligations on policyholder dividends
    left on deposit are projected based on assumptions of
    policyholder withdrawal activity. 

b. Policyholder dividends payable consists of liabilities
    related to dividends payable in the following calendar year on
    participating policies. As such, the contractual obligation
    related to policyholder dividends payable is presented in the
    table above in the less than one year category at the amount of
    the liability presented in the consolidated balance sheet.

c. The nature of the policyholder dividend obligation is
    described in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements. Because the exact timing and amount of the ultimate
    policyholder dividend obligation is subject to significant
    uncertainty and the amount of the policyholder dividend
    obligation is based upon a long-term projection of the
    performance of the closed block, management has reflected the
    obligation at the amount of the liability, if any, presented in
    the consolidated balance sheet in the more than five years
    category. This was done to reflect the long-duration of the
    liability and the uncertainty of the ultimate cash payment.

(4)  

Amounts presented in the table above for short-term debt,
    long-term debt, collateral financing arrangements and junior
    subordinated debt securities differ from the balances presented
    on the consolidated balance sheet as the amounts presented in
    the table above do not include premiums or discounts upon
    issuance or purchase accounting fair value adjustments. The
    amounts presented above also include interest on such
    obligations as described below. 

Short-term debt consists of borrowings with original maturities
    of less than one year carrying fixed interest rates. The
    contractual obligation for short-term debt presented in the
    table above represents the amounts due upon maturity plus the
    related interest for the period from January 1, 2009
    through maturity. 

Long-term debt bears interest at fixed and variable interest
    rates through their respective maturity dates. Interest on fixed
    rate debt was computed using the stated rate on the obligations
    through maturity. Interest on variable rate debt is computed
    using prevailing rates at December 31, 2008 and, as such,
    does not consider the impact of future rate movements. Long-term
    debt also includes payments under capital lease obligations of
    $14 million, $5 million, $1 million and
    $28 million, in the less than one year, one to three years,
    three to five years and more than five years categories,
    respectively. 

Collateral financing arrangements bear interest at fixed and
    variable interest rates through their respective maturity dates.
    Interest on fixed rate debt was computed using the stated rate
    on the obligations through maturity. Interest on variable rate
    debt is computed using prevailing rates at December 31,
    2008 and, as such, does not consider the impact of future rate
    movements. Pursuant to these collateral financing arrangements,
    the Holding Company may be required to deliver cash or pledge
    collateral to the respective unaffiliated financial
    institutions. See  Holding Company   Global
    Funding Sources.  

Junior subordinated debt securities bear interest at fixed
    interest rates through their respective redemption dates.
    Interest was computed using the stated rates on the obligations
    through the scheduled redemption dates as it is the
    Company s expectation that the debt will be redeemed at
    that time. Inclusion of interest payments on junior subordinated
    debt through the final maturity dates would increase the
    contractual obligation by $4.6 billion. 

(5)  

The Company has accepted cash collateral in connection with
    securities lending and derivative transactions. As the
    securities lending transactions expire within the next year or
    the timing of the return of the collateral is uncertain, the
    return of the collateral has been included in the less than one
    year category in the table above. The Company also holds
    non-cash collateral, which is not reflected as a liability in
    the consolidated balance sheet, of $1.2 billion at
    December 31, 2008. 

(6)  

The Company commits to lend funds under mortgage loans,
    partnerships, bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private
    corporate bond investments. In the table above, the timing of
    the funding of mortgage loans and private corporate bond
    investments is based on the expiration date of the commitment.
    As it relates to commitments to lend funds to partnerships and
    under bank credit facilities, the Company anticipates that these
    amounts could be invested any time over the next five years;
    however, as the timing of the fulfillment of the obligation
    cannot be predicted, such obligations are presented in the less
    than one year category in the table  

153

Table of Contents   

above. Commitments to fund bridge loans are short-term
    obligations and, as a result, are presented in the less than one
    year category in the table above. See
       Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.  

(7)  

As a lessee, the Company has various operating leases, primarily
    for office space. Contractual provisions exist that could
    increase or accelerate those leases obligations presented,
    including various leases with early buyouts and/or escalation
    clauses. However, the impact of any such transactions would not
    be material to the Company s financial position or results
    of operations. See    Off-Balance Sheet
    Arrangements.  

(8)  

Other includes those other liability balances which represent
    contractual obligations, as well as other miscellaneous
    contractual obligations of $12 million not included
    elsewhere in the table above. Other liabilities presented in the
    table above are principally comprised of amounts due under
    reinsurance arrangements, payables related to securities
    purchased but not yet settled, securities sold short, accrued
    interest on debt obligations, estimated fair value of derivative
    obligations, deferred compensation arrangements, guaranty
    liabilities, the estimated fair value of forward stock purchase
    contracts, as well as general accruals and accounts payable due
    under contractual obligations. If the timing of any of the other
    liabilities is sufficiently uncertain, the amounts are included
    within the less than one year category. 

The other liabilities presented in the table above differs from
    the amount presented in the consolidated balance sheet by
    $4.0 billion due primarily to the exclusion of items such
    as minority interests, legal liabilities, pension and
    postretirement benefit obligations, taxes due other than income
    tax, unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest,
    accrued severance and employee incentive compensation and other
    liabilities such as deferred gains and losses. Such items have
    been excluded from the table above as they represent accounting
    conventions or are not liabilities due under contractual
    obligations. 

The net funded status of the Company s pension and other
    postretirement liabilities included within other liabilities has
    been excluded from the amounts presented in the table above.
    Rather, the amounts presented represent the discretionary
    contributions of $150 million to be made by the Company to
    the pension plan in 2009 and the discretionary contributions of
    $120 million, based on the current year s expected
    gross benefit payments to participants, to be made by the
    Company to the postretirement benefit plans during 2009.
    Virtually all contributions to the pension and postretirement
    benefit plans are made by the insurance subsidiaries of the
    Holding Company with little impact on the Holding Company s
    cash flows. 

Excluded from the table above are unrecognized tax benefits and
    accrued interest of $766 million and $176 million,
    respectively, for which the Company cannot reliably determine
    the timing of payment. Current income tax payable is also
    excluded from the table. 

See also    Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.  

Separate account liabilities are excluded from the table above.
    Generally, the separate account owner, rather than the Company,
    bears the investment risk of these funds. The separate account
    assets are legally segregated and are not subject to the claims
    that arise out of any other business of the Company. Net
    deposits, net investment income and realized and unrealized
    capital gains and losses on the separate accounts are fully
    offset by corresponding amounts credited to contractholders
    whose liability is reflected with the separate account
    liabilities. Separate account liabilities are fully funded by
    cash flows from the separate account assets and are set equal to
    the estimated fair value of separate account assets as
    prescribed by
     SOP 03-1. 

The Company also enters into agreements to purchase goods and
    services in the normal course of business; however, these
    purchase obligations are not material to its consolidated
    results of operations or financial position at December 31,
    2008.

Additionally, the Company has agreements in place for services
    it conducts, generally at cost, between subsidiaries relating to
    insurance, reinsurance, loans, and capitalization. Intercompany
    transactions have appropriately been eliminated in
    consolidation. Intercompany transactions among insurance
    subsidiaries and affiliates have been approved by the
    appropriate departments of insurance as required.

Support Agreements.   The Holding Company and
    several of its subsidiaries (each, an  Obligor ) are
    parties to various capital support commitments, guarantees and
    contingent reinsurance agreements with certain subsidiaries of
    the Holding Company and a corporation in which the Holding
    Company owns 50% of the equity. Under these arrangements, each
    Obligor, with respect to the applicable entity, has agreed to
    cause such entity to meet specified

154

Table of Contents   

capital and surplus levels, has guaranteed certain contractual
    obligations or has agreed to provide, upon the occurrence of
    certain contingencies, reinsurance for such entity s
    insurance liabilities. Management anticipates that to the extent
    that these arrangements place significant demands upon the
    Company, there will be sufficient liquidity and capital to
    enable the Company to meet these demands. See  The Holding
    Company   Liquidity and Capital Uses  
    Support Agreements. 

Litigation.   Putative or certified class action
    litigation and other litigation, and claims and assessments
    against the Company, in addition to those discussed elsewhere
    herein and those otherwise provided for in the Company s
    consolidated financial statements, have arisen in the course of
    the Company s business, including, but not limited to, in
    connection with its activities as an insurer, employer,
    investor, investment advisor and taxpayer. Further, state
    insurance regulatory authorities and other federal and state
    authorities regularly make inquiries and conduct investigations
    concerning the Company s compliance with applicable
    insurance and other laws and regulations.

It is not possible to predict or determine the ultimate outcome
    of all pending investigations and legal proceedings or provide
    reasonable ranges of potential losses except as noted elsewhere
    herein in connection with specific matters. In some of the
    matters referred to herein, very large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages,
    are sought. Although in light of these considerations, it is
    possible that an adverse outcome in certain cases could have a
    material adverse effect upon the Company s financial
    position, based on information currently known by the
    Company s management, in its opinion, the outcome of such
    pending investigations and legal proceedings are not likely to
    have such an effect. However, given the large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the
    inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an
    adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time,
    have a material adverse effect on the Company s
    consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or
    annual periods.

Fair Value.   The estimated fair value of the
    Company s fixed maturity securities, equity securities,
    trading securities, short-term investments, derivatives, and
    embedded derivatives along with their fair value hierarchy, are
    described and disclosed in Note 24 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements and
       Investments. 

Unprecedented credit and equity market conditions have resulted
    in difficulty in valuing certain asset classes due to inactive
    or disorderly markets and less observable market data. See
     Extraordinary Market Conditions.  Rapidly changing
    market conditions and less liquid markets could materially
    change the valuation of securities within our consolidated
    financial statements and
     period-to-period 
    changes in value could vary significantly. The ultimate value at
    which securities may be sold could differ significantly from the
    valuations reported within the consolidated financial statements
    and could impact our liquidity.

Further, recent events have prompted accounting standard setters
    and law makers to study the definition and application of fair
    value accounting. It appears likely that further disclosures
    regarding the application of, and amounts carried at, fair value
    will be required.

See also    Quantitative and Qualitative
    Disclosures About Market Risk. 

Other.   Based on management s analysis of
    its expected cash inflows from operating activities, the
    dividends it receives from subsidiaries, that are permitted to
    be paid without prior insurance regulatory approval and its
    portfolio of liquid assets and other anticipated cash flows,
    management believes there will be sufficient liquidity to enable
    the Company to make payments on debt, make cash dividend
    payments on its common and preferred stock, pay all operating
    expenses, and meet its cash needs. The nature of the
    Company s diverse product portfolio and customer base
    lessens the likelihood that normal operations will result in any
    significant strain on liquidity.

Consolidated Cash Flows.   Net cash provided by
    operating activities increased by $0.8 billion to
    $10.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008 as
    compared to $9.9 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2007. Cash flows from operations represent net
    income earned adjusted for non-cash charges and changes in
    operating assets and liabilities. The net cash generated from
    operating activities is used to meet the Company s
    liquidity needs, such as debt and dividend payments, and
    provides cash available for investing activities. Cash flows
    from operations are affected by the timing of receipt of
    premiums and other revenues as well as the payment of the
    Company s insurance liabilities. In 2008 cash flows from
    operations includes the impact of the Company entering the
    mortgage origination and servicing business.

155

Table of Contents   

Net cash provided by operating activities increased by
    $3.3 billion to $9.9 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2007 as compared to $6.6 billion for the
    year ended December 31, 2006 primarily due to higher net
    investment income and premiums, fees and other revenues.

Net cash provided by financing activities was $6.2 billion
    and $3.9 billion for the years ended December 31, 2008
    and 2007, respectively. Accordingly, net cash provided by
    financing activities increased by $2.3 billion for the year
    ended December 31, 2008 as compared to the prior year. In
    2008 the Company reduced securities lending activities in line
    with market conditions, which resulted in a decrease of
    $20.0 billion in the cash collateral received in connection
    with the securities lending program. Partially offsetting this
    decrease was a net increase of $15.8 billion in
    policyholder account balances, which primarily reflected the
    Company s increased level of funding agreements with the
    FHLB of NY and with MetLife Short Term Funding LLC, an issuer of
    commercial paper (See  Extraordinary Market
    Conditions  and  Liquidity and Capital
    Sources   Global Funding Sources ). The Company
    also experienced a $6.9 billion increase in cash collateral
    received under derivatives transactions, primarily as a result
    of the improvement in estimated fair value of the derivatives.
    The cash collateral received under derivatives transactions is
    invested in cash, cash equivalents and other short-term
    investments, which partly explains the major increase in this
    category of liquid assets. The Company increased short-term debt
    by $2.0 billion in 2008 compared with a decrease of
    $0.8 billion in 2007, which primarily reflected new
    activity at MetLife Bank, which borrowed $1.0 billion from
    the Federal Reserve Bank of New York under the Term Auction
    Facility and entered into $0.7 billion of short-term
    borrowing from the FHLB of NY in order to fund mortgage
    origination activity acquired by the Company in 2008 and provide
    a cost effective substitute for cash collateral received in
    connection with securities lending. In 2008 the net cash paid
    related to collateral financing arrangements was
    $0.5 billion resulting from the incurrence of price
    returns, which compares to $4.9 billion of cash provided by
    collateral financing arrangement transactions completed in 2007,
    as market conditions in 2008 reduced the availability and
    attractiveness of such financing. In 2008, there was a net
    issuance of $0.7 billion of long-term debt and junior
    subordinated debentures, compared to a net issuance in 2007 of
    $1.1 billion. Finally, in order to strengthen its capital
    base, in 2008 the Company reduced its level of common stock
    repurchase activity by $0.5 billion compared with 2007 only
    repurchasing $1.3 billion of common stock in 2008 as
    compared to $1.8 billion in 2007 and issued $3.3 billion of
    stock compared with no issuance in 2007. The Company also paid
    dividends on the preferred stock and common stock of $0.7
    billion which was comparable to the dividends paid in 2007.

Net cash provided by financing activities was $3.9 billion
    and $15.4 billion for the years ended December 31,
    2007 and 2006, respectively. Accordingly, net cash provided by
    financing activities decreased by $11.5 billion for the
    year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the prior year.
    Net cash provided by financing activities decreased primarily
    because cash collateral received in connection with securities
    lending activity and other transactions was a decrease in cash
    $1.7 billion lower for the year ended December 31,
    2007 as compared to the prior year where cash increased by $11.3
    billion due to an expansion of the securities lending program in
    2006. In 2007 the Company benefited from a $4.0 billion
    increase in cash from the issuance of collateral financing
    arrangements as favorable opportunities to execute such
    transactions arose. Also in 2007, cash provided by the
    Company s debt financing program decreased to $0.2 billion
    as compared to $0.8 billion in the prior year from
    short-term, long-term and subordinated debt financings as the
    mixture and amount of debt was adjusted in line with the
    Company s capital structure plans and market opportunities.
    In addition, the Company increased the common stock repurchase
    program to $1.7 billion in 2007 as compared to the prior
    year of $0.5 billion in order to accomplish the Company s
    capital structure plans. The Company also paid dividends on its
    preferred stock and common stock of $0.7 billion which was
    $0.1 billion higher than prior year reflecting the increase
    in the common stock dividend. The remaining decrease in cash was
    due to slightly lower net flows on policyholder account balances.

Net cash used in investing activities was $2.7 billion and
    $10.6 billion for the years ended December 31, 2008
    and 2007, respectively. Accordingly, net cash used in investing
    activities decreased by $7.9 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2008 as compared to the prior year. The
    Company reduced the level of cash available for investing
    activities in 2008 in order to significantly increase cash and
    cash equivalents as a liquidity cushion in response to the
    deterioration in securities markets in 2008. Cash and cash
    equivalents increased $13.9 billion at December 31,
    2008 compared to the prior year. The net decrease in the amount
    of cash used in investing activities was primarily reflected in
    a decrease in net purchases of fixed maturity and equity
    securities of $15.8 billion and $2.4 billion,
    respectively, as well as a decrease in the net purchases of real
    estate and real estate joint ventures of

156

Table of Contents   

$0.5 billion, a decrease in other invested assets of
    $0.5 billion and a decrease of $0.5 billion in the net
    origination of mortgage and consumer loans. In addition, the
    2007 period included the sale of MetLife Australia s
    annuities and pension businesses of $0.7 billion. These
    decreases in net cash used in investing activities were
    partially offset by an increase in cash invested in short-term
    investments of $11.3 billion due to a repositioning from
    other investment classes due to volatile market conditions, an
    increase in net purchases of other limited partnership interests
    of $0.1 billion and an increase in policy loans of
    $0.3 billion. In addition, the 2008 period includes an
    increase of $0.4 billion of cash used to purchase
    businesses and the decrease of $0.3 billion of cash held by
    a subsidiary, which was split-off from the Company.

Net cash used in investing activities was $10.6 billion and
    $18.9 billion for the years ended December 31, 2007
    and 2006, respectively. Accordingly, net cash used in investing
    activities decreased by $8.3 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2007 as compared to prior year. In 2007, cash
    available for the purchase of invested assets decreased by
    $11.5 billion as a result of the reduction in cash provided
    by financing activities discussed above. Also, partially
    offsetting this decrease was an increase of $3.3 billion in
    net cash provided by operating activities discussed above. The
    lower amount of cash available for investing activities resulted
    in a decrease in net purchases of fixed maturity securities of
    $15.9 billion, other invested assets of $1.4 billion,
    and a decrease in net origination of mortgage and consumer loans
    of $0.6 billion. This was partially offset by increases in
    the net purchases of real estate and real estate joint ventures
    of $6.3 billion, equity securities of $1.4 billion and
    other limited partnership interests of $0.8 billion. Also,
    there was a decrease in cash provided by short-term investments
    of $0.5 billion. In addition, the 2007 period includes the
    sale of MetLife Australia s annuities and pension
    businesses and the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in
    MetLife Fubon of $0.7 billion, while the 2006 period
    includes additional consideration paid related to purchases of
    businesses $0.1 billion.

As it relates to cash flows during 2009, the Company anticipates
    it will pay $30 million in dividends on its series A
    and series B preferred shares in March 2009 as
    announced in February, 2009 and the Company received
    $1,035 million in cash in connection with the settlement of
    the stock purchase contracts as described more fully in
     The Holding Company   Liquidity and Capital
    Sources   Remarketing of Junior Subordinated
    Debentures and Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts. 

The
    Holding Company  

Capital   

Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies and
    Financial Holding Companies  
    Capital.   The Holding Company and its insured
    depository institution subsidiary, MetLife Bank, are subject to
    risk-based and leverage capital guidelines issued by the federal
    banking regulatory agencies for banks and financial holding
    companies. The federal banking regulatory agencies are required
    by law to take specific prompt corrective actions with respect
    to institutions that do not meet minimum capital standards. As
    of their most recently filed reports with the federal banking
    regulatory agencies, MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Bank met the
    minimum capital standards as per federal banking regulatory
    agencies with all of MetLife Bank s risk-based and leverage
    capital ratios meeting the federal banking regulatory
    agencies   well capitalized  standards and all of
    MetLife, Inc. s risk-based and leverage capital ratios
    meeting the  adequately capitalized  standards.

157

Table of Contents   

The following table contains the RBC ratios and the regulatory
    requirements for MetLife, Inc., as a bank holding company, and
    MetLife Bank:

MetLife,
    Inc. 
    RBC Ratios   Bank Holding Company 
    December 31,  

MetLife
    Bank 
    RBC Ratios   Bank 
    December 31,  

Liquidity
    and Capital   

Liquidity and capital are managed to preserve stable, reliable
    and cost-effective sources of cash to meet all current and
    future financial obligations and are provided by a variety of
    sources, including a portfolio of liquid assets, a diversified
    mix of short- and long-term funding sources from the wholesale
    financial markets and the ability to borrow through committed
    credit facilities. The Holding Company is an active participant
    in the global financial markets through which it obtains a
    significant amount of funding. These markets, which serve as
    cost-effective sources of funds, are critical components of the
    Holding Company s liquidity and capital management.
    Decisions to access these markets are based upon relative costs,
    prospective views of balance sheet growth and a targeted
    liquidity profile and capital structure. A disruption in the
    financial markets could limit the Holding Company s access
    to liquidity. See  Extraordinary Market Conditions. 

The Holding Company s ability to maintain regular access to
    competitively priced wholesale funds is fostered by its current
    high credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies.
    Management views its capital ratios, credit quality, stable and
    diverse earnings streams, diversity of liquidity sources and its
    liquidity monitoring procedures as critical to retaining high
    credit ratings. See  The Company  
    Capital   Rating Agencies. 

Liquidity is monitored through the use of internal liquidity
    risk metrics, including the composition and level of the liquid
    asset portfolio, timing differences in short-term cash flow
    obligations, access to the financial markets for capital and
    debt transactions and exposure to contingent draws on the
    Holding Company s liquidity.

Liquidity
    and Capital Sources   

Dividends.   The primary source of the Holding
    Company s liquidity is dividends it receives from its
    insurance subsidiaries. The Holding Company s insurance
    subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions on the
    payment of dividends imposed by the regulators of their
    respective domiciles. The dividend limitation for
    U.S. insurance subsidiaries is generally based on the
    surplus to policyholders as of the immediately preceding
    calendar year and statutory net gain from operations for the
    immediately preceding calendar year. Statutory accounting
    practices, as prescribed by insurance regulators of various
    states in which the Company conducts business, differ in certain
    respects from accounting principles used in financial statements
    prepared in conformity with GAAP. The

158

Table of Contents   

significant differences relate to the treatment of DAC, certain
    deferred income tax, required investment reserves, reserve
    calculation assumptions, goodwill and surplus notes. Management
    of the Holding Company cannot provide assurances that the
    Holding Company s insurance subsidiaries will have
    statutory earnings to support payment of dividends to the
    Holding Company in an amount sufficient to fund its cash
    requirements and pay cash dividends and that the applicable
    insurance departments will not disapprove any dividends that
    such insurance subsidiaries must submit for approval.

The table below sets forth the dividends permitted to be paid by
    the respective insurance subsidiary without insurance regulatory
    approval and the respective dividends paid:

(1)  

Reflects dividend amounts that may be paid during 2009 without
    prior regulatory approval. However, if paid before a specified
    date during 2009, some or all of such dividends may require
    regulatory approval. 

(2)  

Includes amounts paid including those requiring regulatory
    approval. 

(3)  

Reflects dividend amounts that could have been paid during the
    relevant year without prior regulatory approval. 

(4)  

Consists of shares of RGA stock distributed by Metropolitan Life
    Insurance Company to the Holding Company as an in-kind dividend
    of $1,318 million. 

(5)  

Includes shares of an affiliate distributed to the Holding
    Company as an in-kind dividend of $164 million. 

(6)  

Includes a return of capital of $404 million as approved by
    the applicable insurance department, of which $350 million
    was paid to the Holding Company. 

In the fourth quarter of 2008, MICC declared and paid an
    ordinary dividend of $500 million to the Holding Company.
    In the third quarter of 2008, MLIC used its otherwise ordinary
    dividend capacity through a non-cash dividend in conjunction
    with the RGA split-off as approved by the New York Insurance
    Commissioner.

Under New York State Insurance Law, MLIC is permitted, without
    prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay stockholder
    dividends to the Holding Company as long as the aggregate amount
    of all such dividends in any calendar year does not exceed the
    lesser of: (i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as of
    the end of the immediately preceding calendar year; or
    (ii) its statutory net gain from operations for the
    immediately preceding calendar year (excluding realized capital
    gains). MLIC will be permitted to pay a cash dividend to the
    Holding Company in excess of the lesser of such two amounts only
    if it files notice of its intention to declare such a dividend
    and the amount thereof with the Superintendent and the
    Superintendent does not disapprove the distribution within
    30 days of its filing.

For the year ended December 31, 2008, $235 million in
    dividends from other subsidiaries were paid to the Holding
    Company. For the year ended December 31, 2007,
    $190 million in dividends from other subsidiaries were
    paid, of which $176 million were returns of capital, to the
    Holding Company.

Liquid Assets.  A n integral part of the Holding
    Company s liquidity management is the amount of liquid
    assets it holds. Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents,
    short-term investments and publicly-traded securities. Liquid
    assets exclude cash collateral received under the Company s
    securities lending program that has been reinvested in cash,
    cash equivalents, short-term investments and publicly-traded
    securities. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Holding
    Company had $2.7 billion and $2.3 billion in liquid
    assets, respectively. At December 31, 2008, the Holding
    Company had pledged $0.8 billion of liquid assets under
    collateral support agreements as described in
       Investments   Assets on Deposit,
    Held in Trust and Pledged as Collateral.  The Holding
    Company did not pledge any liquid assets at December 31,
    2007.

159

Table of Contents   

Global Funding Sources.   Liquidity is also
    provided by a variety of short-term instruments, including
    commercial paper. Capital is provided by a variety of long-term
    instruments, including medium- and long-term debt, junior
    subordinated debt securities, collateral financing arrangements,
    capital securities and stockholders  equity. The diversity
    of the Holding Company s funding sources enhances funding
    flexibility and limits dependence on any one source of funds and
    generally lowers the cost of funds. Other sources of the Holding
    Company s liquidity include programs for short-and
    long-term borrowing, as needed.

During this extraordinary market environment, management is
    continuously monitoring and adjusting its liquidity and capital
    plans for the Holding Company and its subsidiaries in light of
    changing needs and opportunities. The dislocation in the credit
    markets has limited the access of financial institutions to
    long-term debt and hybrid capital. While, in general, yields on
    benchmark U.S. Treasury securities were historically low
    during 2008, related spreads on debt instruments, in general,
    and those of financial institutions, specifically, were as high
    as they have been in our history as a public company.

This shift resulted in a relative increase in the cost of new
    debt capital and new credit. For example, in August 2008,
    MetLife remarketed senior unsecured debt with a ten-year
    maturity at a 6.817% coupon. At December 31, 2008, the
    average coupon on ten-year senior unsecured debt of the Holding
    Company, excluding the debt remarketed in August 2008 is 5.4%,
    or 1.4% less than that of the debt remarketed in August 2008.

MetLife has issued $600 million in a single series of
    LIBOR-based preferred stock with a 4% floor. This series
    represents a small portion of MetLife s fixed charges. At
    current levels, LIBOR would have to increase by 180 basis
    points (over 145% increase) to have any impact on the dividend
    for these preferred securities.

MetLife amended and restated certain of its credit agreements in
    December 2008. These changes included increases in pricing for
    these agreements compared to the original rates.

In February 2009, the Holding Company closed the successful
    remarketing of the Series B portion of the junior
    subordinated debentures underlying the common equity units. The
    Series B junior subordinated debentures were modified as
    permitted by their terms to be 7.717% senior debt
    securities, Series B, due February 15, 2019. See
       Subsequent Events.  This issuance
    reflects a moderate increase in the Company s cost of
    borrowing.

MetLife has no current plans to raise additional capital.

The Company is participating in certain economic stabilization
    programs established by various government institutions. See
       The Company   Liquidity and Capital
    Sources. 

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Holding Company had
    $300 million and $310 million in short-term debt
    outstanding, respectively. At December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    the Holding Company had $7.7 billion and $7.0 billion
    of unaffiliated long-term debt outstanding, respectively. At
    both December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Holding Company had
    $500 million of affiliated long-term debt outstanding,
    respectively. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Holding
    Company had $2.3 billion and $3.4 billion of junior
    subordinated debt securities outstanding. At December 31,
    2008 and 2007, the Holding Company had $2.7 billion and
    $2.4 billion in collateral financing arrangements
    outstanding, respectively.

In November 2007, the Holding Company filed a shelf registration
    statement (the  2007 Registration Statement ) with the
    SEC, which was automatically effective upon filing, in
    accordance with SEC rules which also allow for pay-as-you-go
    fees and the ability to add securities by filing automatically
    effective amendment for companies, such as the Holding Company,
    which qualify as  Well-Known Seasoned Issuers.  The
    2007 Registration Statement registered an unlimited amount of
    debt and equity securities and supersedes the shelf registration
    statement that the Holding Company filed in April 2005. The
    terms of any offering will be established at the time of the
    offering.

Debt Issuances.   As described more fully in
     Remarketing of Junior Subordinated Debentures and
    Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts  the Holding Company
    sold senior notes in August 2008 and February 2009.

As described more fully in  The Company
      Liquidity and Capital Sources   Debt
    Issuances,  during April 2008, Trust X issued 2008
    Trust Securities with a face amount of $750 million,
    and a fixed rate of interest of 9.25% up to, but not including,
    April 8, 2038, the scheduled redemption date. The
    beneficial interest in Trust X held by the

160

Table of Contents   

Holding Company is not represented by an investment in
    Trust X but rather by a financing agreement between the
    Holding Company and Trust X. The assets of Trust X are
    $750 million of 8.595% surplus notes of MICC, which are
    scheduled to mature April 8, 2038, and rights under the
    financing agreement. Under the financing agreement, the Holding
    Company has the obligation to make payments
    (i) semiannually at a fixed rate of 0.655% of the surplus
    notes outstanding and owned by Trust X or if greater
    (ii) equal to the difference between the 2008
    Trust Securities interest payment and the interest received
    by Trust X on the surplus notes. The ability of MICC to
    make interest and principal payments on the surplus notes to the
    Trust is contingent upon regulatory approval. The 2008
    Trust Securities will be exchanged into a like amount of
    Holding Company junior subordinated debentures on April 8,
    2038, the scheduled redemption date; mandatorily under certain
    circumstances; and at any time upon the Holding Company
    exercising its option to redeem the securities. The 2008
    Trust Securities will be exchanged for junior subordinated
    debentures prior to repayment and the Holding Company is
    ultimately responsible for repayment of the junior subordinated
    debentures. The Holding Company s other rights and
    obligations as it relates to the deferral of interest,
    redemption, replacement capital obligation and RCC associated
    with the issuance of the 2008 Trust Securities are more
    fully described in  The Company   Liquidity and
    Capital Sources   Debt Issuances. 

During December 2007, Trust IV issued 2007
    Trust Securities with a face amount of $700 million
    and a discount of $6 million ($694 million) and a
    fixed rate of interest of 7.875% up to, but not including,
    December 15, 2037, the scheduled redemption date. The
    beneficial interest of Trust IV held by the Holding Company
    is not represented by an investment in Trust IV but rather
    by a financing agreement between the Holding Company and
    Trust IV. The assets of Trust IV are $700 million
    of 7.375% surplus notes of MLIC, which are scheduled to mature
    December 15, 2037, and rights under the financing
    agreement. Under the financing agreement, the Holding Company
    has the obligation to make payments (i) semiannually at a
    fixed rate of 0.50% of the surplus notes outstanding and owned
    by Trust IV or if greater (ii) equal to the difference
    between the 2007 Trust Securities interest payment and the
    interest received by Trust IV on the surplus notes. The
    ability of MLIC to make interest and principal payments on the
    surplus notes to the Holding Company is contingent upon
    regulatory approval. The 2007 Trust Securities, will be
    exchanged into a like amount of Holding Company junior
    subordinated debentures on December 15, 2037, the scheduled
    redemption date; mandatorily under certain circumstances; and at
    any time upon the Holding Company exercising its option to
    redeem the securities. The 2007 Trust Securities will be
    exchanged for junior subordinated debentures prior to repayment
    and the Holding Company is ultimately responsible for repayment
    of the junior subordinated debentures. The Holding
    Company s other rights and obligations as it relates to the
    deferral of interest, redemption, replacement capital obligation
    and RCC associated with the issuance of the
    Trust Securities are more fully described in  The
    Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources  
    Debt Issuances. 

As described more fully in  The Company  
    Liquidity and Capital Sources   Debt Issuances :

In December 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the
    collateral financing arrangement associated with MRC s
    reinsurance of the closed block liabilities, entered into an
    agreement with an unaffiliated financial institution under which
    the Holding Company is entitled to the interest paid by MRC on
    the surplus notes of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.55% in exchange for the payment of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 1.12%, payable quarterly.

Under this agreement, the Holding Company may also be required
    to pledge collateral or make payments to the unaffiliated
    financial institution related to any decline in the estimated
    fair value of the surplus notes and in connection with any early
    termination of this agreement. During the year ended
    December 31, 2008, the Holding Company paid
    $800 million to the unaffiliated financial institution
    related to a decline in the estimated fair value of the surplus
    notes. This payment reduced the amount under the agreement on
    which the Holding Company s interest payment is due but did
    not reduce the outstanding amount of the surplus notes. In
    addition, the Holding Company had pledged collateral of
    $230 million to the unaffiliated financial institution at
    December 31, 2008. No collateral was pledged at
    December 31, 2007. The Holding Company s net cost of
    0.57% has been allocated to MRC. For the year ended
    December 31, 2008, this amount was $14 million. For
    the year ended December 31, 2007 this amount was immaterial.

In May 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the
    collateral financing arrangement associated with MRSC s
    reinsurance of universal life secondary guarantees, entered into
    an agreement with an unaffiliated

161

Table of Contents   

financial institution under which the Holding Company is
    entitled to the return on the investment portfolio held by a
    trust established in connection with this collateral financing
    arrangement in exchange for the payment of a stated rate of
    return to the unaffiliated financial institution of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.70%, payable quarterly. The Holding Company may
    also be required to make payments to the unaffiliated financial
    institution, for deposit into the trust, related to any decline
    in the fair value of the assets held by the trust, as well as
    amounts outstanding upon maturity or early termination of the
    collateral financing arrangement. As a result of this agreement,
    the Holding Company effectively assumed the $2.4 billion
    liability under the collateral financing agreement along with a
    beneficial interest in the trust holding the associated assets.
    The Holding Company simultaneously contributed to MRSC its
    beneficial interest in the trust, along with any return to be
    received on the investment portfolio held by the trust. For the
    year ended December 31, 2008, the Holding Company paid
    $320 million to the unaffiliated financial institution as a
    result of the decline in the fair value of the assets in the
    trust. All of the $320 million was deposited into the
    trust. In January 2009, the Holding Company paid an additional
    $360 million to the unaffiliated financial institution as a
    result of the continued decline in the fair value of the assets
    in trust which was also deposited into the trust. In addition,
    the Holding Company may be required to pledge collateral to the
    unaffiliated financial institution under this agreement. At
    December 31, 2008, the Holding Company had pledged
    $86 million under the agreement. No collateral had been
    pledged under the agreement as December 31, 2007. Interest
    expense incurred by the Holding Company under the collateral
    financing arrangement for the years ended December 31, 2008
    and 2007 was $107 million and $84 million,
    respectively. The allocation of these financing costs to MRSC is
    included in other revenues and recorded as an additional
    investment in MRSC.

In December 2006, the Holding Company issued junior subordinated
    debentures with a face amount of $1.25 billion. See
     The Company   Liquidity and Capital
    Sources   Debt Issuances  for further information.

In September 2006, the Holding Company issued $204 million
    of affiliated long-term debt with an interest rate of 6.07%
    maturing in 2016.

In March 2006, the Holding Company issued $10 million of
    affiliated long-term debt with an interest rate of 5.70%
    maturing in 2016.

The following table summarizes the Holding Company s
    outstanding senior notes series, excluding any premium or
    discount, at December 31, 2008:

(1)  

This amount represents the translation of pounds sterling into
    U.S. dollars using the noon buying rate on December 31,
    2008 of $1.4619 as announced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New
    York. 

Credit Facilities.   The Holding Company and
    MetLife Funding entered into a $2,850 million credit
    agreement with various financial institutions, the proceeds of
    which are available to be used for general

162

Table of Contents   

corporate purposes, to support their commercial paper programs
    and for the issuance of letters of credit. All borrowings under
    the credit agreement must be repaid by June 2012, except that
    letters of credit outstanding upon termination may remain
    outstanding until June 2013. The borrowers and the lenders under
    this facility may agree to extend the term of all or part of the
    facility to no later than June 2014, except that letters of
    credit outstanding upon termination may remain outstanding until
    June 2015. Total fees associated with these credit facilities
    were $17 million, of which $11 million related to
    deferred amendment fees for the year ended December 31,
    2008.

At December 31, 2008, $2.3 billion of letters of
    credit have been issued under these unsecured credit facilities
    on behalf of the Holding Company.

Management has no reason to believe that its lending
    counterparties are unable to fulfill their respective
    contractual obligations. See    The Company
      Liquidity and Capital Sources   Credit
    Facilities. 

Committed Facilities.   The Holding Company
    maintains committed facilities aggregating $11.5 billion at
    December 31, 2008. When drawn upon, these facilities bear
    interest at varying rates in accordance with the respective
    agreements as specified below. The facilities are used for
    collateral for certain of the Company s insurance
    liabilities. Management has no reason to believe that its
    lending counterparties are unable to fulfill their contractual
    obligations. See    The Company  
    Liquidity and Capital Sources   Committed
    Facilities. 

Total fees associated with these committed facilities were
    $35 million, of which $13 million related to deferred
    amendment fees, for the year ended December 31, 2008.
    Information on committed facilities at December 31, 2008 is
    as follows:

(1)  

In December 2008, the Holding Company entered into an amended
    and restated one year $500 million letter of credit
    facility (dated as of August 2008 and amended and restated at
    December 31, 2008 with an unaffiliated financial
    institution, Exeter Reassurance Company, Ltd. is a co-applicant
    under this letter of credit facility. This letter of credit
    facility matures in August 2009, except that letters of credit
    outstanding upon termination may remain outstanding until August
    2010. Fees for this agreement include a margin of 2.25% and a
    utilization fee of 0.05%, as applicable. The Holding Company
    incurred amendment costs of $1.3 million related to the
    $500 million amended and restated letter of credit
    facility, which has been capitalized and included in other
    assets. These costs will be amortized over the term of the
    agreement. 

(2)  

Letters of credit and replacements or renewals thereof issued
    under this facility of $280 million, $10 million and
    $200 million are set to expire no later than December 2015,
    March 2016 and June 2016, respectively. 

(3)  

The Holding Company is a guarantor under this agreement. 

(4)  

In December 2008, Exeter as borrower and the Holding Company as
    guarantor entered into an amendment of an existing credit
    agreement with an unaffiliated financial institution. Issuances
    under this facility are set to expire in December 2027. Exeter
    incurred amendment costs of $1.6 million related to the
    amendment of the existing  

163

Table of Contents   

credit agreement, which have been capitalized and included in
    other assets. These costs will be amortized over the term of the
    agreement. 

(5)  

In May 2007, MetLife Reinsurance Company of South Carolina
    terminated the $2.0 billion amended and restated five-year
    letter of credit and reimbursement agreement entered into among
    the Holding Company, MRSC and various financial institutions on
    April 25, 2005. In its place, the Company entered into a
     30-year 
    collateral financing arrangement as described in Note 11 of
    the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which may be
    extended by agreement of the Company and the financial
    institution on each anniversary of the closing of the facility
    for an additional one-year period. At December 31, 2008,
    $2.7 billion had been drawn upon under the collateral
    financing arrangement. 

(6)  

In December 2007, Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd. terminated
    four letters of credit, with expirations from March 2025 through
    December 2026, which were issued under a letter of credit
    facility with an unaffiliated financial institution in an
    aggregate amount of $1.7 billion. The letters of credit had
    served as collateral for Exeter s obligations under a
    reinsurance agreement that was recaptured by MLI-USA in December
    2007. MLI-USA immediately thereafter entered into a new
    reinsurance agreement with MetLife Reinsurance Company of
    Vermont. To collateralize its reinsurance obligations, MRV and
    the Holding Company entered into a
     30-year, 
    $2.9 billion letter of credit facility with an unaffiliated
    financial institution. 

(7)  

In September 2008, MRV and the Holding Company entered into a
     30-year, 
    $3.5 billion letter of credit facility with an unaffiliated
    financial institution. These letters of credit serve as
    collateral for MRV s obligations under a reinsurance
    agreement. 

Letters of Credit.   At December 31, 2008,
    the Holding Company had outstanding $2.8 billion in letters
    of credit from various financial institutions, of which
    $500 million and $2.3 billion were part of committed
    and credit facilities, respectively. As commitments associated
    with letters of credit and financing arrangements may expire
    unused, these amounts do not necessarily reflect the Holding
    Company s actual future cash funding requirements.

Covenants.   Certain of the Holding
    Company s debt instruments, credit facilities and committed
    facilities contain various administrative, reporting, legal and
    financial covenants. The Holding Company believes it is in
    compliance with all covenants at December 31, 2008 and 2007.

Remarketing of Junior Subordinated Debentures and Settlement
    of Stock Purchase Contracts.   On August 15,
    2008, the Holding Company closed the successful remarketing of
    the Series A portion of the junior subordinated debentures
    underlying the common equity units. The Series A junior
    subordinated debentures were modified as permitted by their
    terms to be 6.817% senior debt securities Series A,
    due August 15, 2018. The Holding Company did not receive
    any proceeds from the remarketing. Most common equity unit
    holders chose to have their junior subordinated debentures
    remarketed and used the remarketing proceeds to settle their
    payment obligations under the applicable stock purchase
    contract. For those common equity unit holders that elected not
    to participate in the remarketing and elected to use their own
    cash to satisfy the payment obligations under the stock purchase
    contract, the terms of the debt are the same as the remarketed
    debt. The initial settlement of the stock purchase contracts
    occurred on August 15, 2008, providing proceeds to the
    Holding Company of $1,035 million in exchange for shares of
    the Holding Company s common stock. The Holding Company
    delivered 20,244,549 shares of its common stock held in
    treasury at a value of $1,064 million to settle the stock
    purchase contracts.

On February 17, 2009, the Holding Company closed the
    successful remarketing of the Series B portion of the
    junior subordinated debentures underlying the common equity
    units. The Series B junior subordinated debentures were
    modified as permitted by their terms to be 7.717% senior
    debt securities Series B, due February 15, 2019. The
    Holding Company did not receive any proceeds from the
    remarketing. Most common equity unit holders chose to have their
    junior subordinated debentures remarketed and used the
    remarketing proceeds to settle their payment obligations under
    the applicable stock purchase contract. For those common equity
    unit holders that elected not to participate in the remarketing
    and elected to use their own cash to satisfy the payment
    obligations under the stock purchase contract, the terms of the
    debt are the same as the remarketed debt. The subsequent
    settlement of the stock purchase contracts occurred on
    February 17, 2009, providing proceeds to the Holding
    Company of $1,035 million in exchange for shares of the
    Holding Company s common stock. The Holding Company
    delivered 24,343,154 shares of its newly issued common
    stock to settle the stock purchase contracts. See  
     Subsequent Events. 

164

Table of Contents   

Common Stock Issuance.   On October 8,
    2008, the Holding Company issued 86,250,000 shares of its
    common stock at a price of $26.50 per share for gross proceeds
    of $2.3 billion. Of the shares issued,
    75,000,000 shares were issued from treasury stock.

Preferred Stock.   During the year ended
    December 31, 2008, the Holding Company issued no new
    preferred stock. In December 2008, the Holding Company entered
    into a replacement capital covenant (the  Replacement
    Capital Covenant ) whereby the Company agreed for the
    benefit of holders of one or more series of the Company s
    unsecured long-term indebtedness designated from time to time by
    the Company in accordance with the terms of the Replacement
    Capital Covenant ( Covered Debt ), that the Company
    will not repay, redeem or purchase and will cause its
    subsidiaries not to repay, redeem or purchase, on or before the
    termination of the Replacement Capital Covenant on
    December 31, 2018 (or earlier termination by agreement of
    the holders of Covered Debt or when there is no longer any
    outstanding series of unsecured long-term indebtedness which
    qualifies for designation as  Covered Debt ), the
    Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, of
    the Company or the 6.500% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock,
    Series B, of the Company, unless such repayment, redemption
    or purchase is made from the proceeds of the issuance of certain
    replacement capital securities and pursuant to the other terms
    and conditions set forth in the Replacement Capital Covenant.

Liquidity
    and Capital Uses   

The primary uses of liquidity of the Holding Company include
    debt service, cash dividends on common and preferred stock,
    capital contributions to subsidiaries, payment of general
    operating expenses, acquisitions and the repurchase of the
    Holding Company s common stock.

Dividends.   The table below presents
    declaration, record and payment dates, as well as per share and
    aggregate dividend amounts, for the common stock:

Future common stock dividend decisions will be determined by the
    Holding Company s Board of Directors after taking into
    consideration factors such as the Company s current
    earnings, expected medium- and long-term earnings, financial
    condition, regulatory capital position, and applicable
    governmental regulations and policies. Furthermore, the payment
    of dividends and other distributions to the Holding Company by
    its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and
    regulations.

165

Table of Contents   

Information on the declaration, record and payment dates, as
    well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the
    Company s Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock,
    Series A and 6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock,
    Series B is as follows for the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006:

See    Subsequent Events. 

Affiliated Capital Transactions.   During the
    years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Holding Company
    invested an aggregate of $2.6 billion and
    $2.8 billion, respectively, in various subsidiaries. In
    February 2009, the Holding Company contributed a total of
    $74 million to two of its insurance subsidiaries.

The Holding Company lends funds, as necessary, to its
    subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their capital
    requirements. Such loans are included in loans to subsidiaries
    and consisted of the following at:

Debt Repayments.   The Holding Company repaid a
    $500 million 5.25% senior note which matured in
    December 2006.

Share Repurchases.   In October 2004, the
    Holding Company s Board of Directors authorized a
    $1 billion common stock repurchase program. In February
    2007, the Holding Company s Board of Directors authorized
    an additional $1 billion common stock repurchase program.
    In September 2007, the Holding Company s Board of Directors
    authorized an additional $1 billion common stock repurchase
    program which began after the completion of the $1 billion
    common stock repurchase program authorized in February 2007. In
    January 2008, the Holding Company s Board of Directors
    authorized an additional $1 billion common stock repurchase
    program, which began after the completion of the September 2007
    program. Under these authorizations, the Holding Company may
    purchase its common stock from the MetLife Policyholder Trust,
    in the open market (including pursuant to the terms of a pre-set
    trading plan meeting the requirements of
     Rule 10b5-1 
    under the Exchange Act and in privately negotiated transactions).

166

Table of Contents   

In 2006, 2007 and 2008, the Holding Company entered into the
    following accelerated common stock repurchase agreements:

In February 2008, the Holding Company entered into an
    accelerated common stock repurchase agreement with a major bank.
    Under the agreement, the Holding Company paid the bank
    $711 million in cash and the bank delivered an initial
    amount of 11,161,550 shares of the Holding Company s
    outstanding common stock that the bank borrowed from third
    parties. In May 2008, the bank delivered an additional
    864,646 shares of the Holding Company s common stock
    to the Company resulting in a total of 12,026,196 shares
    being repurchased under the agreement. The Holding Company
    recorded the shares repurchased as treasury stock.

In December 2007, the Holding Company entered into an
    accelerated common stock repurchase agreement with a major bank.
    Under the terms of the agreement, the Holding Company paid the
    bank $450 million in cash in January 2008 in exchange for
    6,646,692 shares of its outstanding common stock that the
    bank borrowed from third parties. Also, in January 2008, the
    bank delivered 1,043,530 additional shares of Holding
    Company s common stock to the Holding Company resulting in
    a total of 7,690,222 shares being repurchased under the
    agreement. At December 31, 2007, the Holding Company
    recorded the obligation to pay $450 million to the bank as
    a reduction of additional paid-in capital. Upon settlement with
    the bank, the Holding Company increased additional paid-in
    capital and reduced treasury stock.

In November 2007, the Holding Company repurchased
    11,559,803 shares of its outstanding common stock at an
    initial cost of $750 million under an accelerated common
    stock repurchase agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed
    the stock sold to the Holding Company from third parties and
    purchased the common stock in the open market to return to such
    third parties. Also, in November 2007, the Holding Company
    received a cash adjustment of $19 million based on the
    trading price of the common stock during the repurchase period,
    for a final purchase price of $731 million. The Holding
    Company recorded the shares initially repurchased as treasury
    stock and recorded the amount received as an adjustment to the
    cost of the treasury stock.

In March 2007, the Holding Company repurchased
    11,895,321 shares of its outstanding common stock at an
    aggregate cost of $750 million under an accelerated common
    stock repurchase agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed
    the common stock sold to the Holding Company from third parties
    and purchased common stock in the open market to return to such
    third parties. In June 2007, the Holding Company paid a cash
    adjustment of $17 million for a final purchase price of
    $767 million. The Holding Company recorded the shares
    initially repurchased as treasury stock and recorded the amount
    paid as an adjustment to the cost of the treasury stock.

In December 2006, the Holding Company repurchased
    3,993,024 shares of its outstanding common stock at an
    aggregate cost of $232 million under an accelerated common
    stock repurchase agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed
    the common stock sold to the Holding Company from third parties
    and purchased the common stock in the open market to return to
    such third parties. In February 2007, the Holding Company paid a
    cash adjustment of $8 million for a final purchase price of
    $240 million. The Holding Company recorded the shares
    initially repurchased as treasury stock and recorded the amount
    paid as an adjustment to the cost of the treasury stock.

In connection with the split-off of RGA as described in
    Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements, the Company received from MetLife stockholders
    23,093,689 shares of the Company s common stock with a
    market value of $1,318 million and, in exchange, delivered
    29,243,539 shares of RGA Class B common stock with a
    net book value of $1,716 million resulting in a loss on
    disposition, including transaction costs, of $458 million.

The Company also repurchased 1,550,000 and 3,171,700 shares
    through open market purchases for $88 million and
    $200 million, respectively, during the years ended
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Cumulatively, the Company repurchased 21,266,418, 26,626,824 and
    8,608,824 shares of its common stock for
    $1,250 million, $1,705 million and $500 million
    during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2008,
    2007 and 2006, 97,515,737, 3,864,894 and 3,056,559 shares
    of common stock were issued from treasury stock for
    $5,221 million, $172 million and

167

Table of Contents   

$102 million, respectively. In addition, 11,250,000 new
    shares were issued during the year ended December 31, 2008
    in connection with the October 2008 common stock offering.

At December 31, 2006, the Company had $216 million
    remaining on the October 2004 common stock repurchase program
    which was subsequently reduced by $8 million to
    $208 million after the February 2007 cash adjustment to the
    December 2006 accelerated common stock repurchase agreement. The
    February 2007 stock repurchase program authorization was fully
    utilized during 2007. At December 31, 2007,
    $511 million remained on the Company s September 2007
    common stock repurchase program. The $511 million remaining
    on the September 2007 common stock repurchase program was
    reduced by $450 million to $61 million upon settlement
    of the accelerated stock repurchase agreement executed during
    December 2007 but for which no settlement occurred until January
    2008. Subsequent to the April 2008 authorization, the amount
    remaining under these repurchase programs was
    $1,261 million.

Future common stock repurchases will be dependent upon several
    factors, including the Company s capital position, its
    financial strength and credit ratings, general market conditions
    and the price of MetLife, Inc. s common stock. The Company
    does not intend to make any purchases under the common stock
    repurchase program in 2009.

Support Agreements.   In October 2007, the
    Holding Company, in connection with MRV s reinsurance of
    certain universal life and term life insurance risks, committed
    to the Vermont Department of Banking, Insurance, Securities and
    Health Care Administration to take necessary action to cause
    each of the two initial protected cells of MRV to maintain total
    adjusted capital equal to or greater than 200% of such protected
    cell s authorized control level risk-based capital
    ( RBC ), as defined in state insurance statutes. This
    transaction is more fully described in Note 10, Long-term
    and Short-term Debt, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements. See  The Company   Liquidity and
    Capital Sources   Committed Facilities. 

In December 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the
    collateral financing arrangement associated with MRC s
    reinsurance of a portion of the liabilities associated with the
    closed block, committed to the South Carolina Department of
    Insurance to make capital contributions, if necessary, to MRC so
    that MRC may at all times maintain its total adjusted capital at
    a level of not less than 200% of the company action
    level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes as in
    effect on the date of determination or December 31, 2007,
    whichever calculation produces the greater capital requirement,
    or as otherwise required by the South Carolina Department of
    Insurance. This collateral financing arrangement is more fully
    described in Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements. See  The Company
      Liquidity and Capital Sources   Debt
    Issuances. 

In May 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the
    collateral financing arrangement associated with MRSC s
    reinsurance of universal life secondary guarantees, committed to
    the South Carolina Department of Insurance to take necessary
    action to cause MRSC to maintain total adjusted capital equal to
    the greater of $250,000 or 100% of MRSC s authorized
    control level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes.
    This collateral financing arrangement is more fully described in
    Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements. See  The Company   Liquidity and
    Capital Sources   Debt Issuances. 

The Holding Company has net worth maintenance agreements with
    two of its insurance subsidiaries, MetLife Investors Insurance
    Company and First MetLife Investors Insurance Company. Under
    these agreements, as subsequently amended, the Holding Company
    agreed, without limitation as to the amount, to cause each of
    these subsidiaries to have a minimum capital and surplus of
    $10 million, total adjusted capital at a level not less
    than 150% of the company action level RBC, as defined by
    state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it
    to meet its current obligations on a timely basis.

The Holding Company entered into a net worth maintenance
    agreement with Mitsui Sumitomo MetLife Insurance Company Limited
    ( MSMIC ), an investment in Japan of which the Holding
    Company owns 50% of the equity. Under the agreement, the Holding
    Company agreed, without limitation as to amount, to cause MSMIC
    to have the amount of capital and surplus necessary for MSMIC to
    maintain a solvency ratio of at least 400%, as calculated in
    accordance with the Insurance Business Law of Japan, and to make
    such loans to MSMIC as may be necessary to ensure that MSMIC has
    sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet its payment
    obligations as they fall due.

168

Table of Contents   

The Holding Company has guaranteed the obligations of its
    subsidiary, Exeter Reassurance Company, Ltd., under a
    reinsurance agreement with MSMIC, under which Exeter reinsures
    variable annuity business written MSMIC.

Management anticipates that to the extent that these
    arrangements place significant demands upon the Holding Company,
    there will be sufficient liquidity and capital to enable the
    Holding Company to meet these demands.

Based on management s analysis and comparison of its
    current and future cash inflows from the dividends it receives
    from subsidiaries that are permitted to be paid without prior
    insurance regulatory approval, its asset portfolio and other
    cash flows and anticipated access to the capital markets,
    management believes there will be sufficient liquidity and
    capital to enable the Holding Company to make payments on debt,
    make cash dividend payments on its common and preferred stock,
    contribute capital to its subsidiaries, pay all operating
    expenses and meet its cash needs.

Holding Company Cash Flows.   Net cash provided
    by operating activities, primarily the result of subsidiary
    dividends, was similar at $1.2 billion for the years ending
    December 31, 2008 and 2007. The net cash generated from
    operating activities was used to meet the Holding Company s
    liquidity and capital needs such as debt servicing, dividend
    payments, capital contributions to subsidiaries, stock buybacks
    and acquisitions, as well as other corporate uses.

Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by
    $2.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 from
    $3.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006
    primarily due to $3.0 billion lower dividends from
    subsidiaries. The 2006 operating activities included
    $2.2 billion of extraordinary dividends in conjunction with
    the sale of Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town.

Net cash provided by financing activities was $50 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to
    $2.9 billion of net cash used for the year ended
    December 31, 2007. Accordingly, net cash provided by
    financing activities increased by $2.9 billion for the year
    ended December 31, 2008 compared to the prior year. In
    2008 net cash paid related to collateral financing
    arrangements was $800 million resulting from the incurrence
    of price return payments compared to zero outflows for this
    purpose in 2007. Finally, in order to strengthen its capital
    base, in 2008 the Holding Company reduced its level of common
    stock repurchase activity by $500 million compared to the
    prior year and issued $3.3 billion of common stock compared
    with zero issuance in 2007.

Net cash used by financing activities was $2.9 billion for
    the years ended December 31, 2007, compared to
    $239 million of net cash provided for the year ended
    December 31, 2006. Accordingly, net cash provided by
    financing activities decreased by $3.1 billion for the year
    ended December 31, 2007 compared to the prior year
    primarily due to increased stock repurchase of $1.2 billion
    and a net decrease in debt issuance of $748 million.
    Financing activity results are the result of the Holding
    Company s debt and equity financing activities, as well as
    changes due to the needs of securities lending and collateral
    financing arrangements.

Net cash used in investing activities was $1.2 billion for
    the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to
    $742 million provided for the year ended December 31,
    2007. Accordingly, net cash provided by investing activities
    decreased by $1.9 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2008 compared to the prior year primarily due
    to increases in capital contributions to subsidiaries and
    changes in short-term investments.

Net cash provided by investing activities was $742 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to
    $2.8 billion of net cash used for the year ended
    December 31, 2006. Accordingly, net cash provided by
    investing activities increased by $3.5 billion for the year
    ended December 31, 2007 compared to the prior year
    primarily due to a decrease in net purchases of fixed maturity
    securities. Investing activity results are generally due to the
    Holding Company s management of its capital, as well as the
    needs of its subsidiaries and any business development
    opportunities.

As it relates to cash flows during 2009, the Holding Company
    anticipates it will pay $30 million in dividends on its
    Series A and Series B preferred shares in March 2009
    as announced in February 2009 and the Holding Company received
    $1,035 million in cash in connection with the settlement of
    the stock purchase contracts as described more fully in
     Remarketing of Junior Subordinated Debentures and
    Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts. 

169

Table of Contents   

Subsequent
    Events  

Dividends   

On February 18, 2009, the Company s Board of Directors
    announced dividends of $0.25 per share, for a total of
    $6 million, on its Series A preferred shares, and
    $0.40625 per share, for a total of $24 million, on its
    Series B preferred shares, subject to the final
    confirmation that it has met the financial tests specified in
    the Series A and Series B preferred shares, which the
    Company anticipates will be made on or about March 5, 2009,
    the earliest date permitted in accordance with the terms of the
    securities. Both dividends will be payable March 16, 2009
    to shareholders of record as of February 28, 2009.

Remarketing
    of Securities and Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts
    Underlying Common Equity Units   

On February 17, 2009, the Holding Company closed the
    successful remarketing of the Series B portion of the
    junior subordinated debentures underlying the common equity
    units. The junior subordinated debentures were modified as
    permitted by their terms to be 7.717% senior debt
    securities Series B, due February 15, 2019. The
    Holding Company did not receive any proceeds from the
    remarketing. Most common equity unit holders chose to have their
    junior subordinated debentures remarketed and used the
    remarketing proceeds to settle their payment obligations under
    the applicable stock purchase contract. For those common equity
    unit holders that elected not to participate in the remarketing
    and elected to use their own cash to satisfy the payment
    obligations under the stock purchase contract, the terms of the
    debt are the same as the remarketed debt.

The subsequent settlement of the stock purchase contracts
    occurred on February 17, 2009, providing proceeds to the
    Holding Company of $1,035 million in exchange for shares of
    the Holding Company s common stock. The Holding Company
    delivered 24,343,154 shares of its newly issued common
    stock to settle the remaining stock purchase contracts issued as
    part of the common equity units sold in June 2005.

Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements  

Commitments
    to Fund Partnership Investments   

The Company makes commitments to fund partnership investments in
    the normal course of business for the purpose of enhancing the
    Company s total return on its investment portfolio. The
    amounts of these unfunded commitments were $4.5 billion and
    $4.2 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
    Once funded, those commitments are classified in the
    consolidated balance sheet according to their nature as other
    limited partnership interests, real estate joint ventures or
    other invested assets. The Company anticipates that these
    amounts will be invested in partnerships over the next five
    years. There are no other obligations or liabilities arising
    from such arrangements that are reasonably likely to become
    material.

Mortgage
    Loan Commitments   

The Company has issued interest rate lock commitments on certain
    residential mortgage loan applications totaling
    $8.0 billion at December 31, 2008. The Company intends
    to sell the majority of these originated residential mortgage
    loans. Interest rate lock commitments to fund mortgage loans
    that will be held-for-sale are considered derivatives pursuant
    to SFAS 133, and their estimated fair value and notional
    amounts are included within financial forwards in the
    Company s consolidated balance sheets.

The Company also commits to lend funds under certain other
    mortgage loan commitments that will be held-for-investment. The
    amounts of these mortgage loan commitments were
    $2.7 billion and $4.0 billion at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively. The purpose of these loans is to
    enhance the Company s total return on its investment
    portfolio. There are no other obligations or liabilities arising
    from such arrangements that are reasonably likely to become
    material.

The purpose of the Company s loan program is to enhance the
    Company s total return on its investment portfolio. There
    are no other obligations or liabilities arising from such
    arrangements that are reasonably likely to become material.

170

Table of Contents   

Commitments
    to Fund Bank Credit Facilities, Bridge Loans and Private
    Corporate Bond Investments   

The Company commits to lend funds under bank credit facilities,
    bridge loans and private corporate bond investments. The amounts
    of these unfunded commitments were $1.0 billion and
    $1.2 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. The purpose of these commitments and any related
    fundings is to enhance the Company s total return on its
    investment portfolio. There are no other obligations or
    liabilities arising from such arrangements that are reasonably
    likely to become material.

Lease
    Commitments   

The Company, as lessee, has entered into various lease and
    sublease agreements for office space, data processing and other
    equipment. The Company s commitments under such lease
    agreements are included within the contractual obligations
    table. See    Liquidity and Capital
    Resources   The Company   Liquidity and
    Capital Uses   Investment and Other. 

Credit
    Facilities, Committed Facilities and Letters of
    Credit   

The Company maintains committed and unsecured credit facilities
    and letters of credit with various financial institutions. See
       Liquidity and Capital Resources  
    The Company   Liquidity and Capital
    Sources   Credit Facilities, 
       Committed Facilities  and
       Letters of Credit  for further
    descriptions of such arrangements.

Share-Based
    Arrangements   

In connection with the issuance of common equity units, the
    Holding Company issued forward stock purchase contracts under
    which the Holding Company delivered 44,587,703 shares of
    its common stock in settlements of the stock purchase contracts.
    In February 2009, 24,343,154 shares of common stock were
    delivered. See    Liquidity and Capital
    Resources   The Company   Liquidity and
    Capital Sources   Remarketing of Securities and
    Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts Underlying Common Equity
    Units  for further information.

Guarantees   

In the normal course of its business, the Company has provided
    certain indemnities, guarantees and commitments to third parties
    pursuant to which it may be required to make payments now or in
    the future. In the context of acquisition, disposition,
    investment and other transactions, the Company has provided
    indemnities and guarantees, including those related to tax,
    environmental and other specific liabilities, and other
    indemnities and guarantees that are triggered by, among other
    things, breaches of representations, warranties or covenants
    provided by the Company. In addition, in the normal course of
    business, the Company provides indemnifications to
    counterparties in contracts with triggers similar to the
    foregoing, as well as for certain other liabilities, such as
    third party lawsuits. These obligations are often subject to
    time limitations that vary in duration, including contractual
    limitations and those that arise by operation of law, such as
    applicable statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum
    potential obligation under the indemnities and guarantees is
    subject to a contractual limitation ranging from less than
    $1 million to $800 million, with a cumulative maximum
    of $1.6 billion, while in other cases such limitations are
    not specified or applicable. Since certain of these obligations
    are not subject to limitations, the Company does not believe
    that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount
    that could become due under these guarantees in the future.
    Management believes that it is unlikely the Company will have to
    make any material payments under these indemnities, guarantees,
    or commitments.

In addition, the Company indemnifies its directors and officers
    as provided in its charters and by-laws. Also, the Company
    indemnifies its agents for liabilities incurred as a result of
    their representation of the Company s interests. Since
    these indemnities are generally not subject to limitation with
    respect to duration or amount, the Company does not believe that
    it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that
    could become due under these indemnities in the future.

The Company has also guaranteed minimum investment returns on
    certain international retirement funds in accordance with local
    laws. Since these guarantees are not subject to limitation with
    respect to duration or amount, the Company does not believe that
    it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that
    could become due under these guarantees in the future.

171

Table of Contents   

During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company
    recorded $7 million of additional liabilities for
    guarantees related to certain investment transactions. The term
    for these guarantees and their associated liabilities varies,
    with a maximum of 18 years. The maximum potential amount of
    future payments the Company could be required to pay under these
    guarantees is $202 million. During the year ended
    December 31, 2008, the Company reduced $7 million of
    previously recorded liabilities related to indemnifications
    provided in connection with the disposition of real estate
    property and other investment transactions. The Company s
    recorded liabilities were $6 million at both
    December 31, 2008 and 2007 for indemnities, guarantees and
    commitments.

In connection with synthetically created investment
    transactions, the Company writes credit default swap obligations
    that generally require payment of principal outstanding due in
    exchange for the referenced credit obligation. If a credit
    event, as defined by the contract, occurs the Company s
    maximum amount at risk, assuming the value of all referenced
    credit obligations is zero, was $1.9 billion at
    December 31, 2008. However, the Company believes that any
    actual future losses will be significantly lower than this
    amount. Additionally, the Company can terminate these contracts
    at any time through cash settlement with the counterparty at an
    amount equal to the then current estimated fair value of the
    credit default swaps. As of December 31, 2008, the Company
    would have paid $37 million to terminate all of these
    contracts.

Other
    Commitments   

MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut is a member of the
    Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston (the  FHLB of
    Boston ) and holds $70 million of common stock of the
    FHLB of Boston at both December 31, 2008 and 2007, which is
    included in equity securities. MICC has also entered into
    funding agreements with the FHLB of Boston whereby MICC has
    issued such funding agreements in exchange for cash and for
    which the FHLB of Boston has been granted a blanket lien on
    certain MICC assets, including residential mortgage-backed
    securities, to collateralize MICC s obligations under the
    funding agreements. MICC maintains control over these pledged
    assets, and may use, commingle, encumber or dispose of any
    portion of the collateral as long as there is no event of
    default and the remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to
    satisfy the collateral maintenance level. Upon any event of
    default by MICC, the FHLB of Boston s recovery on the
    collateral is limited to the amount of MICC s liability to
    the FHLB of Boston. The amount of the Company s liability
    for funding agreements with the FHLB of Boston was
    $526 million and $726 million at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively, which is included in policyholder
    account balances. In addition, at December 31, 2008, MICC
    had advances of $300 million from the FHLB of Boston with
    original maturities of less than one year and therefore, such
    advances are included in short-term debt. These advances and the
    advances on these funding agreements are collateralized by
    mortgage-backed securities with estimated fair values of
    $1.3 billion and $901 million at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively.

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company is a member of the FHLB of
    NY and holds $830 million and $339 million of common
    stock of the FHLB of NY at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively, which is included in equity securities. MLIC has
    also entered into funding agreements with the FHLB of NY whereby
    MLIC has issued such funding agreements in exchange for cash and
    for which the FHLB of NY has been granted a lien on certain MLIC
    assets, including residential mortgage-backed securities to
    collateralize MLIC s obligations under the funding
    agreements. MLIC maintains control over these pledged assets,
    and may use, commingle, encumber or dispose of any portion of
    the collateral as long as there is no event of default and the
    remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to satisfy the
    collateral maintenance level. Upon any event of default by MLIC,
    the FHLB of NY s recovery on the collateral is limited to
    the amount of MLIC s liability to the FHLB of NY. The
    amount of the Company s liability for funding agreements
    with the FHLB of NY was $15.2 billion and $4.6 billion
    at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which is
    included in policyholder account balances. The advances on these
    agreements are collateralized by mortgage-backed securities with
    estimated fair values of $17.8 billion and
    $4.8 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

MetLife Bank is a member of the FHLB of NY and holds
    $89 million and $64 million of common stock of the
    FHLB of NY at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively,
    which is included in equity securities. MetLife Bank has also
    entered into repurchase agreements with the FHLB of NY whereby
    MetLife Bank has issued repurchase agreements in exchange for
    cash and for which the FHLB of NY has been granted a blanket
    lien on MetLife Bank s residential mortgages and
    mortgage-backed securities to collateralize MetLife Bank s
    obligations under the repurchase agreements. MetLife Bank
    maintains control over these pledged assets, and may use,
    commingle,

172

Table of Contents   

encumber or dispose of any portion of the collateral as long as
    there is no event of default and the remaining qualified
    collateral is sufficient to satisfy the collateral maintenance
    level. The repurchase agreements and the related security
    agreement represented by this blanket lien provide that upon any
    event of default by MetLife Bank, the FHLB of NY s recovery
    is limited to the amount of MetLife Bank s liability under
    the outstanding repurchase agreements. The amount of the
    Company s liability for repurchase agreements with the FHLB
    of NY was $1.8 billion and $1.2 billion at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which is included
    in long-term debt and short-term debt depending on the original
    tenor of the advance. The advances on these repurchase
    agreements are collateralized by residential mortgage-backed
    securities and residential mortgage loans with estimated fair
    values of $3.1 billion and $1.3 billion at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Collateral
    for Securities Lending   

The Company has non-cash collateral for securities lending on
    deposit from customers, which cannot be sold or repledged, and
    which has not been recorded on its consolidated balance sheets.
    The amount of this collateral was $279 million and
    $40 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

Goodwill  

Goodwill is the excess of cost over the estimated fair value of
    net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for
    impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or
    circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate,
    indicate that there may be justification for conducting an
    interim test. Impairment testing is performed using the fair
    value approach, which requires the use of estimates and
    judgment, at the  reporting unit  level. A reporting
    unit is the operating segment or a business one level below the
    operating segment, if discrete financial information is prepared
    and regularly reviewed by management at that level.

Information regarding changes in goodwill is as follows:

(1)  

See    Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Acquisitions and Dispositions  for a description of
    acquisitions and dispositions. 

(2)  

Consists principally of foreign currency translation adjustments. 

173

Table of Contents   

Information regarding goodwill by segment and reporting unit is
    as follows:

(1)  

The allocation of the goodwill to the reporting units is
    performed at the time of the respective acquisition. The
    $470 million of goodwill within Corporate   Other
    relates to goodwill acquired as a part of the Travelers
    acquisition of $405 million, as well as acquisitions by
    MetLife Bank which resides within Corporate   Other.
    For purposes of goodwill impairment testing at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, $405 million of Corporate   Other
    goodwill has been attributed to the Individual and Institutional
    segment reporting units. The Individual segment was attributed
    $210 million, (traditional life  
    $23 million, variable   universal
    life   $11 million and annuities  
    $176 million) and the Institutional segment was attributed
    $195 million, (group life   $2 million,
    retirement   savings   $186 million,
    and non-medical health   other  
    $7 million) at both December 31, 2008 and 2007. 

For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, if the carrying
    value of a reporting unit s goodwill exceeds its estimated
    fair value, there is an indication of impairment, and the
    implied fair value of the goodwill is determined in the same
    manner as the amount of goodwill would be determined in a
    business acquisition. The excess of the carrying value of
    goodwill over the implied fair value of goodwill is recognized
    as an impairment and recorded as a charge against net income.
    The Company performed its annual goodwill impairment tests
    during the third quarter of 2008 based upon data as of
    June 30, 2008. Such tests indicated that goodwill was not
    impaired as of September 30, 2008. Current economic
    conditions, the sustained low level of equity markets, declining
    market capitalizations in the insurance industry and lower
    operating earnings projections, particularly for the Individual
    segment, required management of the Company to consider the
    impact of these events on the recoverability of its assets, in
    particular its goodwill. Management concluded it was appropriate
    to perform an interim goodwill impairment test at
    December 31, 2008. Based upon the tests performed
    management concluded no impairment of goodwill had occurred for
    any of the Company s reporting units at December 31,
    2008.

174

Table of Contents   

In performing its goodwill impairment tests, when management
    believes meaningful comparable market data are available, the
    estimated fair values of the reporting units are determined
    using a market multiple approach. When relevant comparables are
    not available, the Company uses a discounted cash flow model.
    For reporting units which are particularly sensitive to market
    assumptions, such as the annuities and variable  
    universal life reporting units within the Individual segment,
    the Company may corroborate its estimated fair values by using
    additional valuation methodologies.

The key inputs, judgments and assumptions necessary in
    determining estimated fair value include projected operating
    earnings, current book value (with and without accumulated other
    comprehensive income), the level of economic capital required to
    support the mix of business, long term growth rates, comparative
    market multiples, the account value of our in-force business,
    projections of new and renewal business as well as margins on
    such business, the level of interest rates, credit spreads,
    equity market levels, and the discount rate management believes
    appropriate to the risk associated with the respective reporting
    unit. The estimated fair value of the annuity and
    variable   universal life reporting units are
    particularly sensitive to the equity market levels.

When testing goodwill for impairment, management also considers
    its market capitalization in relation to its book value.
    Management believes that the overall decrease in the
    Company s current market capitalization is not
    representative of a long-term decrease in the value of the
    underlying reporting units.

Management applies significant judgment when determining the
    estimated fair value of its reporting units and when assessing
    the relationship of its market capitalization to the estimated
    fair value of its reporting units and their book value. The
    valuation methodologies utilized are subject to key judgments
    and assumptions that are sensitive to change. Estimates of fair
    value are inherently uncertain and represent only
    management s reasonable expectation regarding future
    developments. These estimates and the judgments and assumptions
    upon which the estimates are based will, in all likelihood,
    differ in some respects from actual future results. Declines in
    the estimated fair value of the Company s reporting units
    could result in goodwill impairments in future periods which
    could materially adversely affect the Company s results of
    operations or financial position.

Management continues to evaluate current market conditions that
    may affect the estimated fair value of the Company s
    reporting units to assess whether any goodwill impairment
    exists. Continued deteriorating or adverse market conditions for
    certain reporting units may have a significant impact on the
    estimated fair value of these reporting units and could result
    in future impairments of goodwill.

Pensions
    and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans  

Description
    of Plans   

Plan
    Description Overview  

Certain subsidiaries of the Holding Company ( the
    Subsidiaries ) sponsor
     and/or 
    administer various qualified and non-qualified defined benefit
    pension plans and other postretirement employee benefit plans
    covering employees and sales representatives who meet specified
    eligibility requirements. Pension benefits are provided
    utilizing either a traditional formula or cash balance formula.
    The traditional formula provides benefits based upon years of
    credited service and either final average or career average
    earnings. The cash balance formula utilizes hypothetical or
    notional accounts, which credit participants with benefits equal
    to a percentage of eligible pay, as well as earnings credits,
    determined annually based upon the average annual rate of
    interest on
     30-year 
    U.S. Treasury securities, for each account balance. At
    December 31, 2008, the majority of active participants are
    accruing benefits under the cash balance formula; however,
    approximately 95% of the Subsidiaries  obligations result
    from benefits calculated with the traditional formula. The
    non-qualified pension plans provide supplemental benefits, in
    excess of amounts permitted by governmental agencies, to certain
    executive level employees.

The Subsidiaries also provide certain postemployment benefits
    and certain postretirement medical and life insurance benefits
    for retired employees. Employees of the Subsidiaries who were
    hired prior to 2003 (or, in certain cases, rehired during or
    after 2003) and meet age and service criteria while working
    for one of the Subsidiaries, may become eligible for these other
    postretirement benefits, at various levels, in accordance with
    the applicable plans. Virtually all retirees, or their
    beneficiaries, contribute a portion of the total cost of
    postretirement medical benefits. Employees hired after 2003 are
    not eligible for any employer subsidy for postretirement medical
    benefits.

175

Table of Contents   

Financial
    Summary  

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS )
    No. 87,  Employers  Accounting for Pensions
     ( SFAS 87 ), as amended, establishes the
    accounting for pension plan obligations. Under SFAS 87, the
    projected pension benefit obligation ( PBO ) is
    defined as the actuarial present value of vested and non-vested
    pension benefits accrued based on future salary levels. The
    accumulated pension benefit obligation ( ABO ) is the
    actuarial present value of vested and non-vested pension
    benefits accrued based on current salary levels. The PBO and ABO
    of the pension plans are set forth in the following section.

Prior to December 31, 2006, SFAS 87 also required the
    recognition of an additional minimum pension liability and an
    intangible asset (limited to unrecognized prior service cost) if
    the estimated fair value of pension plan assets was less than
    the ABO at the measurement date. The excess of the additional
    minimum pension liability over the allowable intangible asset
    was charged, net of income tax, to accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss). The Company s additional
    minimum pension liability was $78 million, and the
    intangible asset was $12 million, at December 31,
    2005. The excess of the additional minimum pension liability
    over the intangible asset of $66 million ($41 million,
    net of income tax) was recorded as a reduction of accumulated
    other comprehensive income. At December 31, 2006, the
    Company s additional minimum pension liability was
    $92 million. The additional minimum pension liability of
    $59 million, net of income tax of $33 million, was
    recorded as a reduction of accumulated other comprehensive
    income.

SFAS No. 106,  Employers Accounting for
    Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions,  as amended,
    ( SFAS 106 ), establishes the accounting for
    expected postretirement plan benefit obligations
    ( EPBO ) which represents the actuarial present value
    of all postretirement benefits expected to be paid after
    retirement to employees and their dependents. Unlike the PBO for
    pensions, the EPBO is not recorded in the financial statements
    but is used in measuring the periodic expense. The accumulated
    postretirement plan benefit obligation ( APBO )
    represents the actuarial present value of future postretirement
    benefits attributed to employee services rendered through a
    particular date. The APBO is recorded in the financial
    statements and is set forth below.

As described more fully in    Adoption of New
    Accounting Pronouncements,  the Company adopted
    SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for
    Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans
        an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87,
    88, 106, and SFAS No. 132(r)
     ( SFAS 158 ), effective December 31,
    2006. Upon adoption, the Company was required to recognize in
    the consolidated balance sheet the funded status of defined
    benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Funded
    status is measured as the difference between the estimated fair
    value of plan assets and the benefit obligation, which is the
    PBO for pension plans and the APBO for other postretirement
    benefit plans. The change to recognize funded status eliminated
    the additional minimum pension liability provisions of
    SFAS 87. In addition, the Company recognized as an
    adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net
    of income tax, those amounts of actuarial gains and losses,
    prior service costs and credits, and the remaining net
    transition asset or obligation that had not yet been included in
    net periodic benefit cost at the date of adoption. The adoption
    of SFAS 158 resulted in a reduction of $744 million,
    net of income tax, to accumulated other comprehensive income
    (loss), which is included as a component of total consolidated

176

Table of Contents   

stockholders  equity. The following table summarizes the
    adjustments to the December 31, 2006 consolidated balance
    sheet in order to effect the adoption of SFAS 158:

A December 31 measurement date is used for all of the
    Subsidiaries  defined benefit pension and other
    postretirement benefit plans.

The benefit obligations and funded status of the
    Subsidiaries  defined benefit pension and other
    postretirement benefit plans, as determined in accordance with
    the applicable provisions described above, were as follows:

177

Table of Contents   

The aggregate projected benefit obligation and aggregate
    estimated fair value of plan assets for the pension plans were
    as follows:

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit
    pension plans was $5,620 million and $5,302 million at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Information for pension plans with an accumulated benefit
    obligation in excess of plan assets is as follows:

Information for pension and other postretirement benefit plans
    with a projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets is
    as follows:

Pension
    and Other Postretirement Benefit Plan Obligations   

Pension
    Plan Obligations  

Obligations, both PBO and ABO, of the defined benefit pension
    plans are determined using a variety of actuarial assumptions,
    from which actual results may vary. Some of the more significant
    of these assumptions include the discount rate used to determine
    the present value of future benefit payments, the expected rate
    of compensation increases and average expected retirement age.

Assumptions used in determining pension plan obligations were as
    follows:

The discount rate is determined annually based on the yield,
    measured on a yield to worst basis, of a hypothetical portfolio
    constructed of high-quality debt instruments available on the
    valuation date, which would provide the necessary future cash
    flows to pay the aggregate PBO when due. The yield of this
    hypothetical portfolio, constructed of bonds rated AA or better
    by Moody s resulted in a discount rate of approximately
    6.60% and 6.65% for the defined pension plans at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

178

Table of Contents   

A decrease (increase) in the discount rate increases (decreases)
    the PBO. This increase (decrease) to the PBO is amortized into
    earnings as an actuarial loss (gain). Based on the
    December 31, 2008 PBO, a 25 basis point decrease
    (increase) in the discount rate would result in an increase
    (decrease) in the PBO of $168 million.

At the end of 2008, total net actuarial losses were
    $2,184 million as compared to $623 million in 2007. In
    2008, the decrease in discount rate had a nominal effect on the
    increase in the actuarial losses. The substantial increase in
    net actuarial losses during 2008 occurred due to the substantial
    decline in the estimated fair value of plan assets. These losses
    will be amortized on a straight-line basis over the average
    remaining service period of active employees expected to receive
    benefits under the benefit plans. At the end of 2008, the
    average remaining service period of active employees was
    7.9 years for the pension plans. The increase in net
    periodic benefit cost in 2009 associated with the amortization
    of these net actuarial losses is described in the respective
    section which follows.

As the benefits provided under the defined pension plans are
    calculated as a percentage of future earnings, an assumption of
    future compensation increases is required to determine the
    projected benefit obligation. This assumption is based on a
    building block approach that best-estimates future compensation
    increases due to inflation, merit and productivity. The future
    compensation rate is derived from a Consumer Price Index
    ( CPI ) assumption and through periodic analysis of
    historical demographic data conducted. A recent review of these
    underlying assumptions demonstrated that the CPI assumption
    should be lowered by 50 basis points based on forecasts
    from various economic reports. The last review of the historical
    data was conducted using salary information through 2006 and the
    Company believes that no circumstances have subsequently
    occurred that would result in a material change to the future
    compensation rate. The 50 basis point change in future
    compensation rate caused a decrease in PBO of $62 million.
    This rate is reviewed annually.

Other
    Postretirement Benefit Plan Obligations  

The APBO is determined using a variety of actuarial assumptions,
    from which actual results may vary. Some of the more significant
    of these assumptions include the discount rate, the healthcare
    cost trend rate and the average expected retirement age. The
    determination of the discount rate and the average expected
    retirement age are substantially consistent with the
    determination described previously for the pension plans.

The assumed healthcare cost trend rates used in measuring the
    APBO and net periodic benefit cost were as follows:

A recent review of the healthcare cost trend assumption
    indicated the need for a slight modification in this assumption
    as set forth in the table above. This assumption change in our
    healthcare cost trend rate increased the APBO by
    $62 million. This rate is reviewed annually.

Assumed healthcare cost trend rates may have a significant
    effect on the amounts reported for healthcare plans. A
    one-percentage point change in assumed healthcare cost trend
    rates would have the following effects:

One Percent 

One Percent 

Increase 

Decrease 

(In millions) 

Effect on total of service and interest cost components

$

6

$

(6

)

Effect of accumulated postretirement benefit obligation

$

76

$

(86

)

A decrease (increase) in the discount rate increases (decreases)
    the APBO. This increase (decrease) to the APBO is amortized into
    earnings as an actuarial loss (gain). Based on the
    December 31, 2008 APBO, a 25 basis point decrease
    (increase) in the discount rate would result in an increase
    (decrease) in the APBO of $44 million.

179

Table of Contents   

At the end of 2008, total net actuarial losses were
    $147 million as compared to net actuarial gains of
    $112 million in 2007. In 2008, the decrease in discount
    rate had a nominal effect on the increase in the actuarial
    losses. The increase in net actuarial losses during 2008
    occurred due to the substantial decline in the estimated fair
    value of plan assets. These losses will be amortized on a
    straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of
    active employees expected to receive benefits under the other
    postretirement benefit plans. At the end of 2008, the average
    remaining service period of active employees was 7.9 years
    for the other postretirement benefit plans. The increase in net
    periodic benefit cost in 2009 associated with the amortization
    of these net actuarial losses is described in the respective
    section which follows.

In 2004, the Company adopted the guidance in Financial
    Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) Staff Position
    ( FSP )
     No. 106-2, 
     Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the
    Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of
    2003
      ( FSP 106-2 ), 
    to account for future subsidies to be received under the
    Prescription Drug Act. The Company began receiving these
    subsidies during 2006. A summary of the reduction to the APBO
    and related reduction to the components of net periodic other
    postretirement benefit plan cost is as follows:

The Company received subsidies of $12 million and
    $10 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and
    2007, respectively.

Pension
    and Other Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets   

Pension
    Plan Assets  

Substantially all assets of the pension plans are invested
    within group annuity and life insurance contracts issued by the
    Subsidiaries. The majority of assets are held in separate
    accounts established by the Subsidiaries. The account values of
    assets held with the Subsidiaries were $5,502 million and
    $6,440 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. The terms of these contracts are consistent in all
    material respects with those the Subsidiaries offer to
    unaffiliated parties that are similarly situated.

Net assets invested in separate accounts are stated at the
    aggregate estimated fair value of units of participation. Such
    value reflects accumulated contributions, dividends and realized
    and unrealized investment gains or losses apportioned to such
    contributions, less withdrawals, distributions, allocable
    expenses relating to the purchase, sale and maintenance of the
    assets and an allocable part of such separate accounts 
    investment expenses.

180

Table of Contents   

Separate account investments in fixed income and equity
    securities are generally carried at published market value, or
    if published market values are not readily available, at
    estimated fair values. Investments in short-term fixed income
    securities are generally reflected as cash equivalents and
    carried at fair value. Real estate investments, in the form of
    real estate investment trusts, are carried at estimated fair
    value based on appraisals performed by third-party real estate
    appraisal firms, and generally, determined by discounting
    projected cash flows over periods of time and at interest rates
    deemed appropriate for each investment. Information on the
    physical value of the property and the sales prices of
    comparable properties is used to corroborate fair value
    estimates. Estimated fair value of hedge fund net assets is
    generally determined by third-party pricing vendors using quoted
    market prices or through the use of pricing models which are
    affected by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange
    rates, financial indices, credit spreads, market supply and
    demand, market volatility and liquidity.

The following table summarizes the actual and target
    weighted-average allocations of pension plan assets within the
    separate accounts:

Target allocations of assets are determined with the objective
    of maximizing returns and minimizing volatility of net assets
    through adequate asset diversification. Adjustments are made to
    target allocations based on an assessment of the impact of
    economic factors and market conditions.

Credit and equity market volatility during 2008 resulted in a
    substantial decrease in the estimated fair value of the pension
    plan s assets at December 31, 2008. This decline in
    asset values resulted in a substantial increase in net actuarial
    losses at December 31, 2008, as described in the preceding
    section on pension plan obligations, and will result in a
    significant increase in net periodic pension cost during 2009,
    as described in the following section on net periodic benefit
    cost.

Other
    Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets  

Substantially all assets of the other postretirement benefit
    plans are invested within life insurance and reserve contracts
    issued by the Subsidiaries. The majority of assets are held in
    separate accounts established by the Subsidiaries. The account
    values of assets held with the Subsidiaries were
    $949 million and $1,125 million at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively. The terms of these contracts are
    consistent in all material respects with those the Subsidiaries
    offer to unaffiliated parties that are similarly situated.

The valuation of separate accounts and the investments within
    such separate accounts invested in by the other postretirement
    benefit plans are similar to that described in the preceding
    section on pension plans.

181

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes the actual and target
    weighted-average allocations of other postretirement benefit
    plan assets within the separate accounts:

Target allocations of assets are determined with the objective
    of maximizing returns and minimizing volatility of net assets
    through adequate asset diversification. Adjustments are made to
    target allocations based on an assessment of the impact of
    economic factors and market conditions.

Credit and equity market volatility during 2008 resulted in a
    decrease in the estimated fair value of the other postretirement
    benefit plan s assets at December 31, 2008. This
    decline in asset values resulted in an increase in net actuarial
    losses at December 31, 2008, as described in the preceding
    section on other postretirement benefit plan obligations, and
    will result in a significant increase in net periodic other
    postretirement benefit plan cost during 2009, as described in
    the following section on net periodic benefit cost.

Pension
    and Other Postretirement Net Periodic Benefit Cost   

Pension
    Cost  

Net periodic pension cost is comprised of the following:

i) 

Service Cost   Service cost is the increase in the
    projected pension benefit obligation resulting from benefits
    payable to employees of the Subsidiaries on service rendered
    during the current year.

ii) 

Interest Cost on the Liability   Interest cost is the
    time value adjustment on the projected pension benefit
    obligation at the end of each year.

iii) 

Expected Return on Plan Assets   Expected return on
    plan assets is the assumed return earned by the accumulated
    pension fund assets in a particular year.

iv) 

Amortization of Prior Service Cost   This cost relates
    to the increase or decrease to pension benefit cost for service
    provided in prior years due to amendments in plans or initiation
    of new plans. As the economic benefits of these costs are
    realized in the future periods, these costs are amortized to
    pension expense over the expected service years of the employees.

v) 

Amortization of Net Actuarial Gains or Losses  
    Actuarial gains and losses result from differences between the
    actual experience and the expected experience on pension plan
    assets or projected pension benefit obligation during a
    particular period. These gains and losses are accumulated and,
    to the extent they exceed 10% of the greater of the projected
    pension benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan
    assets, they are amortized into pension expense over the
    expected service years of the employees.

182

Table of Contents   

The Subsidiaries recognized pension expense of $65 million
    in 2008 as compared to $93 million in 2007 and
    $175 million in 2006. The major components of net periodic
    pension cost described above were as follows:

The decrease in expense from 2006 to 2007 was primarily the
    result of an increase in the expected return on plan assets and
    a decrease in amortization of net actuarial losses resulting
    from the $350 million contribution made in 2006. The
    increase in the interest cost resulted from the increase in the
    discount rate.

The decrease in expense from 2007 to 2008 was primarily the
    result of better than anticipated returns on plan assets in
    2007, coupled with the increase in the discount rate.

For 2009 pension expense, we anticipate an increase of
    approximately $275 million due to poor plan asset
    performance as a result of the economic downturn of the
    financial markets. The expected increase in expense can be
    attributed to lower expected return on assets and increased
    amortization of net actuarial losses.

The estimated net actuarial losses and prior service cost for
    the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from
    accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic
    benefit cost over the next year are $198 million and
    $9 million, respectively.

The weighted average discount rate used to calculate the net
    periodic pension cost was 6.65%, 6.00% and 5.82% for the years
    ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

The weighted average expected rate of return on pension plan
    assets used to calculate the net periodic pension cost for the
    years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was 8.25%. The
    expected rate of return on plan assets is based on anticipated
    performance of the various asset sectors in which the plan
    invests, weighted by target allocation percentages. Anticipated
    future performance is based on long-term historical returns of
    the plan assets by sector, adjusted for the Subsidiaries 
    long-term expectations on the performance of the markets. While
    the precise expected return derived using this approach will
    fluctuate from year to year, the Subsidiaries  policy is to
    hold this long-term assumption constant as long as it remains
    within reasonable tolerance from the derived rate.

Based on the December 31, 2008 asset balances, a
    25 basis point increase (decrease) in the expected rate of
    return on plan assets would result in a decrease (increase) in
    net periodic benefit cost of $14 million for the pension
    plans.

Other
    Postretirement Benefit Plan Cost  

The net periodic other postretirement benefit plan cost consists
    of the following:

i) 

Service Cost   Service cost is the increase in the
    expected postretirement plan benefit obligation resulting from
    benefits payable to employees of the Subsidiaries on service
    rendered during the current year.

ii) 

Interest Cost on the Liability   Interest cost is the
    time value adjustment on the expected postretirement benefit
    obligation at the end of each year.

iii) 

Expected Return on Plan Assets   Expected return on
    plan assets is the assumed return earned by the accumulated
    other postretirement fund assets in a particular year.

183

Table of Contents   

iv) 

Amortization of Prior Service Cost   This cost relates
    to the increase or decrease to other postretirement benefit plan
    cost for service provided in prior years due to amendments in
    plans or initiation of new plans. As the economic benefits of
    these costs are realized in the future periods these costs are
    amortized to other postretirement benefit expense over the
    expected service years of the employees.

v) 

Amortization of Net Actuarial Gains or Losses  
    Actuarial gains and losses result from differences between the
    actual experience and the expected experience on other
    postretirement benefit plan assets or expected postretirement
    plan benefit obligation during a particular year. These gains
    and losses are accumulated and, to the extent they exceed 10% of
    the greater of the accumulated postretirement plan benefit
    obligation or the market-related value of plan assets, they are
    amortized into other postretirement benefit expense over the
    expected service years of the employees.

The Subsidiaries recognized no other postretirement benefit
    expense in 2008 as compared to $8 million in 2007 and
    $58 million in 2006. The major components of net periodic
    other postretirement benefit plan cost described above were as
    follows:

The decrease in benefit cost from 2006 to 2007 primarily
    resulted from a change in the Medicare integration methodology
    for certain retirees. The decrease in benefit cost from 2007 to
    2008 was due to primarily to increases in the discount rate and
    better than expected medical trend experience.

For 2009 postretirement benefit expense, we anticipate an
    increase of approximately $25 million due to poor plan
    asset performance as a result of the economic downturn of the
    financial markets. The expected increase in expense can be
    attributed to lower expected return on assets and increased
    amortization of net actuarial losses.

The estimated net actuarial losses and prior service credit for
    the other postretirement benefit plans that will be amortized
    from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net
    periodic benefit cost over the next year are less than
    $10 million and ($36) million, respectively.

The weighted average discount rate used to calculate the net
    periodic postretirement cost was 6.65%, 6.00% and 5.82% for the
    years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

The weighted average expected rate of return on plan assets used
    to calculate the net other postretirement benefit plan cost for
    the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was 7.33%,
    7.47% and 7.42%, respectively. The expected rate of return on
    plan assets is based on anticipated performance of the various
    asset sectors in which the plan invests, weighted by target
    allocation percentages. Anticipated future performance is based
    on long-term historical returns of the plan assets by sector,
    adjusted for the Subsidiaries  long-term expectations on
    the performance of the markets. While the precise expected
    return derived using this approach will fluctuate from year to
    year, the Subsidiaries  policy is to hold this long-term
    assumption constant as long as it remains within reasonable
    tolerance from the derived rate.

Based on the December 31, 2008 asset balances, a
    25 basis point increase (decrease) in the expected rate of
    return on plan assets would result in a decrease (increase) in
    net periodic benefit cost of $3 million for the other
    postretirement benefit plans.

184

Table of Contents   

Funding
    and Cash Flows of Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plan
    Obligations   

Pension
    Plan Obligations  

It is the Subsidiaries  practice to make contributions to
    the qualified pension plans to comply with minimum funding
    requirements of ERISA, as amended. In accordance with such
    practice, no contributions were required for the years ended
    December 31, 2008 or 2007. No contributions will be
    required for 2009. The Subsidiaries made a discretionary
    contribution of $300 million to the qualified pension plans
    during the year ended December 31, 2008. During the year
    ended December 31, 2007, the Subsidiaries did not make any
    discretionary contributions to the qualified pension plans. The
    Subsidiaries expect to make additional discretionary
    contributions of $150 million in 2009.

Benefit payments due under the non-qualified pension plans are
    funded from the Subsidiaries  general assets as they become
    due under the provision of the plans. These payments totaled
    $43 million and $48 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These benefit
    payments are expected to be at approximately the same level in
    2009.

Gross pension benefit payments for the next ten years, which
    reflect expected future service as appropriate, are expected to
    be as follows:

Other
    Postretirement Benefit Plan Obligations  

Other postretirement benefits represent a non-vested,
    non-guaranteed obligation of the Subsidiaries and current
    regulations do not require specific funding levels for these
    benefits. While the Subsidiaries have partially funded such
    plans in advance, it has been the Subsidiaries  practice to
    primarily use their general assets, net of participants 
    contributions, to pay postretirement medical claims as they come
    due in lieu of utilizing plan assets. Total payments equaled
    $149 million and $173 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

The Subsidiaries  expect to make contributions of
    $120 million, net of participants  contributions,
    towards the other postretirement plan obligations in 2009. As
    noted previously, the Subsidiaries expect to receive subsidies
    under the Prescription Drug Act to partially offset such
    payments.

Gross other postretirement benefit payments for the next ten
    years, which reflect expected future service where appropriate,
    and gross subsidies to be received under the Prescription Drug
    Act are expected to be as follows:

185

Table of Contents   

Insolvency
    Assessments  

Most of the jurisdictions in which the Company is admitted to
    transact business require insurers doing business within the
    jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are
    organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance
    policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These
    associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all
    member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the
    proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers
    in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or
    failed insurer engaged. Some states permit member insurers to
    recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax
    offsets. Assets and liabilities held for insolvency assessments
    are as follows:

(1)  

The Company holds a receivable from the seller of a prior
    acquisition in accordance with the purchase agreement. 

Assessments levied against the Company were $2 million,
    ($1) million and $2 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Effects
    of Inflation  

The Company does not believe that inflation has had a material
    effect on its consolidated results of operations, except insofar
    as inflation may affect interest rates.

Inflation in the United States has remained contained and been
    in a general downtrend for an extended period. However, in light
    of recent and ongoing aggressive fiscal and monetary stimulus
    measures by the U.S. federal government and foreign
    governments, it is possible that inflation could increase in the
    future. An increase in inflation could affect our business in
    several ways. During inflationary periods, the value of fixed
    income investments falls which could increase realized and
    unrealized losses. Inflation also increases expenses for labor
    and other materials, potentially putting pressure on
    profitability if such costs can not be passed through in our
    product prices. Inflation could also lead to increased costs for
    losses and loss adjustment expenses in our Auto   Home
    business, which could require us to adjust our pricing to
    reflect our expectations for future inflation. If actual
    inflation exceeds the expectations we use in pricing our
    policies, the profitability of our Auto   Home business
    would be adversely affected. Prolonged and elevated inflation
    could adversely affect the financial markets and the economy
    generally, and dispelling it may require governments to pursue a
    restrictive fiscal and monetary policy, which could constrain
    overall economic activity, inhibit revenue growth and reduce the
    number of attractive investment opportunities.

Adoption
    of New Accounting Pronouncements  

Fair
    Value  

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted
    SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements .
    SFAS 157 which defines fair value, establishes a consistent
    framework for measuring fair value, establishes a fair value
    hierarchy based on the observability of inputs used to measure
    fair value, and requires enhanced disclosures about fair value
    measurements and applied the provisions of the statement
    prospectively to assets and liabilities measured at fair value.
    The adoption of SFAS 157 changed the valuation of certain
    freestanding derivatives by moving from a mid to

186

Table of Contents   

bid pricing convention as it relates to certain volatility
    inputs as well as the addition of liquidity adjustments and
    adjustments for risks inherent in a particular input or
    valuation technique. The adoption of SFAS 157 also changed
    the valuation of the Company s embedded derivatives, most
    significantly the valuation of embedded derivatives associated
    with certain riders on variable annuity contracts. The change in
    valuation of embedded derivatives associated with riders on
    annuity contracts resulted from the incorporation of risk
    margins associated with non capital market inputs and the
    inclusion of the Company s own credit standing in their
    valuation. At January 1, 2008, the impact of adopting
    SFAS 157 on assets and liabilities measured at estimated
    fair value was $30 million ($19 million, net of income
    tax) and was recognized as a change in estimate in the
    accompanying consolidated statement of income where it was
    presented in the respective income statement caption to which
    the item measured at estimated fair value is presented. There
    were no significant changes in estimated fair value of items
    measured at fair value and reflected in accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss). The addition of risk margins and
    the Company s own credit spread in the valuation of
    embedded derivatives associated with annuity contracts may
    result in significant volatility in the Company s
    consolidated net income in future periods. Note 24 of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements presents the
    estimated fair value of all assets and liabilities required to
    be measured at estimated fair value as well as the expanded fair
    value disclosures required by SFAS 157.

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,  The
    Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
     ( SFAS 159 ). SFAS 159 permits entities
    the option to measure most financial instruments and certain
    other items at fair value at specified election dates and to
    recognize related unrealized gains and losses in earnings. The
    fair value option is applied on an
     instrument-by-instrument 
    basis upon adoption of the standard, upon the acquisition of an
    eligible financial asset, financial liability or firm commitment
    or when certain specified reconsideration events occur. The fair
    value election is an irrevocable election. Effective
    January 1, 2008, the Company elected the fair value option
    on fixed maturity and equity securities backing certain pension
    products sold in Brazil. Such securities will now be presented
    as trading securities in accordance with SFAS 115 on the
    consolidated balance sheet with subsequent changes in estimated
    fair value recognized in net investment income. Previously,
    these securities were accounted for as available-for-sale
    securities in accordance with SFAS 115 and unrealized gains
    and losses on these securities were recorded as a separate
    component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The
    Company s insurance joint venture in Japan also elected the
    fair value option for certain of its existing single premium
    deferred annuities and the assets supporting such liabilities.
    The fair value option was elected to achieve improved reporting
    of the asset/liability matching associated with these products.
    Adoption of SFAS 159 by the Company and its Japanese joint
    venture resulted in an increase in retained earnings of
    $27 million, net of income tax, at January 1, 2008.
    The election of the fair value option resulted in the
    reclassification of $10 million, net of income tax, of net
    unrealized gains from accumulated other comprehensive income
    (loss) to retained earnings on January 1, 2008.

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted FASB Staff
    Position ( FSP )
     No. FAS 157-1, 
     Application of FASB Statement No. 157 to FASB Statement
    No. 13 and Other Accounting Pronouncements That Address
    Fair Value Measurements for Purposes of Lease Classification or
    Measurement under Statement 13
      ( FSP 157-1 ). 
     FSP 157-1 
    amends SFAS 157 to provide a scope out exception for lease
    classification and measurement under SFAS No. 13,
     Accounting for Leases . The Company also adopted FSP
     No. FAS 157-2, 
     Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157  which
    delays the effective date of SFAS 157 for certain
    nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are recorded at fair
    value on a nonrecurring basis. The effective date is delayed
    until January 1, 2009 and impacts balance sheet items
    including nonfinancial assets and liabilities in a business
    combination and the impairment testing of goodwill and
    long-lived assets.

Effective September 30, 2008, the Company adopted FSP
     No. FAS 157-3, 
     Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the
    Market for That Asset is Not Active
      ( FSP 157-3 ). 
     FSP 157-3 
    provides guidance on how a company s internal cash flow and
    discount rate assumptions should be considered in the
    measurement of fair value when relevant market data does not
    exist, how observable market information in an inactive market
    affects fair value measurement and how the use of market quotes
    should be considered when assessing the relevance of observable
    and unobservable data available to measure fair value. The
    adoption of
     FSP 157-3 
    did not have a material impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

.

187

Table of Contents   

Investments  

Effective December 31, 2008, the Company adopted FSP
     No. FAS 140-4 
    and
     FIN 46(r)-8, 
     Disclosures by Public Entities (Enterprises) about Transfers
    of Financial Assets and Interests in Variable Interest Entities
      ( FSP 140-4 
    and
     FIN 46(r)-8 ). 
     FSP 140-4 
    and
     FIN 46(r)-8 
    requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures
    about a transferors  continuing involvement in transferred
    financial assets and involvement in VIE. The exact nature of the
    additional required VIE disclosures vary and depend on whether
    or not the VIE is a qualifying special purpose entity
    ( QSPE ). For VIEs that are QSPEs, the additional
    disclosures are only required for a non-transferor sponsor
    holding a variable interest or a non-transferor servicer holding
    a significant variable interest. For VIEs that are not QSPEs,
    the additional disclosures are only required if the Company is
    the primary beneficiary, and if not the primary beneficiary,
    only if the Company holds a significant variable interest or is
    the sponsor. The Company provided all of the material required
    disclosures in its consolidated financial statements.

Effective December 31, 2008, the Company adopted FSP
    No. Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF )
     99-20-1, 
     Amendments to the Impairment Guidance of EITF Issue
     No. 99-20 
     ( FSP
     EITF 99-20-1 ). 
    FSP
     EITF 99-20-1 
    amends the guidance in EITF Issue
     No. 99-20, 
     Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased
    Beneficial Interests and Beneficial Interests That Continue to
    Be Held by a Transferor in Securitized Financial Assets,  to
    more closely align the guidance to determine whether an
    other-than-temporary impairment has occurred for a beneficial
    interest in a securitized financial asset with the guidance in
    SFAS 115 for debt securities classified as
    available-for-sale or held-to-maturity. The adoption of FSP
     EITF 99-20-1 
    did not have an impact on the Company s consolidated
    financial statements.

Derivative
    Financial Instruments  

Effective December 31, 2008, the Company adopted FSP
    No. FAS
     133-1  and
     FIN 45-4, 
     Disclosures about Credit Derivatives and Certain
    Guarantees   An Amendment of FASB Statement
    No. 133 and FASB Interpretation No. 45; and
    Clarification of the Effective Date of FASB Statement
    No. 161
      ( FSP 133-1 
    and
     FIN 45-4 ). 
     FSP 133-1 
    and
     FIN 45-4 
    amends SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative
    Instruments and Hedging Activities
     ( SFAS 133 ) to require certain enhanced
    disclosures by sellers of credit derivatives by requiring
    additional information about the potential adverse effects of
    changes in their credit risk, financial performance, and cash
    flows. It also amends FIN No. 45,  Guarantor s
    Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including
    Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others   An
    Interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57, and 107 and
    Rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34
     ( FIN 45 ), to require an additional
    disclosure about the current status of the payment/performance
    risk of a guarantee. The Company provided all of the material
    required disclosures in its consolidated financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted
    SFAS 133 Implementation Issue
     No. E-23, 
     Clarification of the Application of the Shortcut Method
     ( Issue
     E-23 ). 
    Issue  E-23 
    amended SFAS 133 by permitting interest rate swaps to have
    a non-zero fair value at inception when applying the shortcut
    method of assessing hedge effectiveness, as long as the
    difference between the transaction price (zero) and the fair
    value (exit price), as defined by SFAS 157, is solely
    attributable to a bid-ask spread. In addition, entities are not
    precluded from applying the shortcut method of assessing hedge
    effectiveness in a hedging relationship of interest rate risk
    involving an interest bearing asset or liability in situations
    where the hedged item is not recognized for accounting purposes
    until settlement date as long as the period between trade date
    and settlement date of the hedged item is consistent with
    generally established conventions in the marketplace. The
    adoption of Issue
     E-23  did not
    have an impact on the Company s consolidated financial
    statements.

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted
    prospectively SFAS No. 155,  Accounting for Certain
    Hybrid Instruments  ( SFAS 155 ).
    SFAS 155 amends SFAS 133 and SFAS No. 140,
     Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets
    and Extinguishments of Liabilities
     ( SFAS 140 ). SFAS 155 allows financial
    instruments that have embedded derivatives to be accounted for
    as a whole, eliminating the need to bifurcate the derivative
    from its host, if the holder elects to account for the whole
    instrument on a fair value basis. In addition, among other
    changes, SFAS 155:

(i)   

clarifies which interest-only strips and principal-only strips
    are not subject to the requirements of SFAS 133;

188

Table of Contents   

(ii)  

establishes a requirement to evaluate interests in securitized
    financial assets to identify interests that are freestanding
    derivatives or that are hybrid financial instruments that
    contain an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation;

(iii)  

clarifies that concentrations of credit risk in the form of
    subordination are not embedded derivatives; and

(iv)  

amends SFAS 140 to eliminate the prohibition on a QSPE from
    holding a derivative financial instrument that pertains to a
    beneficial interest other than another derivative financial
    interest.

The adoption of SFAS 155 did not have a material impact on
    the Company s consolidated financial statements.

Effective October 1, 2006, the Company adopted
    SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No. B40,  Embedded
    Derivatives: Application of Paragraph 13(b) to Securitized
    Interests in Prepayable Financial Assets  ( Issue
    B40 ). Issue B40 clarifies that a securitized interest in
    prepayable financial assets is not subject to the conditions in
    paragraph 13(b) of SFAS 133, if it meets both of the
    following criteria: (i) the right to accelerate the
    settlement if the securitized interest cannot be controlled by
    the investor; and (ii) the securitized interest itself does
    not contain an embedded derivative (including an interest
    rate-related derivative) for which bifurcation would be required
    other than an embedded derivative that results solely from the
    embedded call options in the underlying financial assets. The
    adoption of Issue B40 did not have a material impact on the
    Company s consolidated financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted
    prospectively SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No. B38,
     Embedded Derivatives: Evaluation of Net Settlement with
    Respect to the Settlement of a Debt Instrument through Exercise
    of an Embedded Put Option or Call Option  ( Issue
    B38 ) and SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No. B39,
     Embedded Derivatives: Application of Paragraph 13(b) to
    Call Options That Are Exercisable Only by the Debtor
     ( Issue B39 ). Issue B38 clarifies that the
    potential settlement of a debtor s obligation to a creditor
    occurring upon exercise of a put or call option meets the net
    settlement criteria of SFAS 133. Issue B39 clarifies that
    an embedded call option, in which the underlying is an interest
    rate or interest rate index, that can accelerate the settlement
    of a debt host financial instrument should not be bifurcated and
    fair valued if the right to accelerate the settlement can be
    exercised only by the debtor (issuer/borrower) and the investor
    will recover substantially all of its initial net investment.
    The adoption of Issues B38 and B39 did not have a material
    impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.

Income
    Taxes  

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FIN 48.
    FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income
    tax recognized in a company s financial statements.
    FIN 48 requires companies to determine whether it is
     more likely than not  that a tax position will be
    sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities
    before any part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial
    statements. It also provides guidance on the recognition,
    measurement, and classification of income tax uncertainties,
    along with any related interest and penalties. Previously
    recorded income tax benefits that no longer meet this standard
    are required to be charged to earnings in the period that such
    determination is made.

As a result of the implementation of FIN 48, the Company
    recognized a $35 million increase in the liability for
    unrecognized tax benefits and a $9 million decrease in the
    interest liability for unrecognized tax benefits, as well as a
    $17 million increase in the liability for unrecognized tax
    benefits and a $5 million increase in the interest
    liability for unrecognized tax benefits which are included in
    liabilities of subsidiaries held-for-sale. The corresponding
    reduction to the January 1, 2007 balance of retained
    earnings was $37 million, net of $11 million of
    minority interest included in liabilities of subsidiaries
    held-for-sale. See also Note 15 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Insurance
    Contracts  

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted
     SOP 05-1 
    which provides guidance on accounting by insurance enterprises
    for DAC on internal replacements of insurance and investment
    contracts other than those specifically described in
    SFAS No. 97,  Accounting and Reporting by Insurance
    Enterprises for Certain Long-Duration Contracts and for Realized
    Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments.
      SOP 05-1 
    defines an internal replacement and is effective for internal
    replacements occurring in fiscal years beginning after
    December 15, 2006.

189

Table of Contents   

In addition, in February 2007, the American Institute of
    Certified Public Accountants ( AICPA ) issued related
    Technical Practice Aids ( TPAs ) to provide further
    clarification of
     SOP 05-1. 
    The TPAs became effective concurrently with the adoption of
     SOP 05-1. 

As a result of the adoption of
     SOP 05-1 
    and the related TPAs, if an internal replacement modification
    substantially changes a contract, then the DAC is written off
    immediately through income and any new deferrable costs
    associated with the new replacement are deferred. If a contract
    modification does not substantially change the contract, the DAC
    amortization on the original contract will continue and any
    acquisition costs associated with the related modification are
    immediately expensed.

The adoption of
     SOP 05-1 
    and the related TPAs resulted in a reduction to DAC and VOBA on
    January 1, 2007 and an acceleration of the amortization
    period relating primarily to the Company s group life and
    health insurance contracts that contain certain rate reset
    provisions. Prior to the adoption of
     SOP 05-1, 
    DAC on such contracts was amortized over the expected renewable
    life of the contract. Upon adoption of
     SOP 05-1, 
    DAC on such contracts is to be amortized over the rate reset
    period. The impact as of January 1, 2007 was a cumulative
    effect adjustment of $292 million, net of income tax of
    $161 million, which was recorded as a reduction to retained
    earnings.

Defined
    Benefit and Other Postretirement Plans  

Effective December 31, 2006, the Company adopted
    SFAS 158. The pronouncement revises financial reporting
    standards for defined benefit pension and other postretirement
    plans by requiring the:

(i)   

recognition in the statement of financial position of the funded
    status of defined benefit plans measured as the difference
    between the estimated fair value of plan assets and the benefit
    obligation, which is the projected benefit obligation for
    pension plans and the accumulated postretirement benefit
    obligation for other postretirement plans;

(ii)  

recognition as an adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive
    income (loss), net of income tax, those amounts of actuarial
    gains and losses, prior service costs and credits, and net asset
    or obligation at transition that have not yet been included in
    net periodic benefit costs as of the end of the year of adoption;

(iii)  

recognition of subsequent changes in funded status as a
    component of other comprehensive income;

(iv)  

measurement of benefit plan assets and obligations as of the
    date of the statement of financial position; and

(v)   

disclosure of additional information about the effects on the
    employer s statement of financial position.

The adoption of SFAS 158 resulted in a reduction of
    $744 million, net of income tax, to accumulated other
    comprehensive income, which is included as a component of total
    consolidated stockholders  equity. As the Company s
    measurement date for its pension and other postretirement
    benefit plans is already December 31 there was no impact of
    adoption due to changes in measurement date. See also
     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Critical
    Accounting Estimates  and Note 17 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Stock
    Compensation Plans  

As described previously, effective January 1, 2006, the
    Company adopted SFAS 123(r) including supplemental
    application guidance issued by the SEC in Staff Accounting
    Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 107,  Share-Based
    Payment    using the modified prospective
    transition method. In accordance with the modified prospective
    transition method, results for prior periods have not been
    restated. SFAS 123(r) requires that the cost of all
    stock-based transactions be measured at fair value and
    recognized over the period during which a grantee is required to
    provide goods or services in exchange for the award. The Company
    had previously adopted the fair value method of accounting for
    stock-based awards as prescribed by SFAS 123 on a
    prospective basis effective January 1, 2003. The Company
    did not modify the substantive terms of any existing awards
    prior to adoption of SFAS 123(r).

Under the modified prospective transition method, compensation
    expense recognized during the year ended December 31, 2006
    includes: (a) compensation expense for all stock-based
    awards granted prior to, but not yet vested as of
    January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value
    estimated in accordance with the original provisions

190

Table of Contents   

of SFAS 123, and (b) compensation expense for all
    stock-based awards granted beginning January 1, 2006, based
    on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the
    provisions of SFAS 123(r).

The adoption of SFAS 123(r) did not have a significant
    impact on the Company s financial position or results of
    operations as all stock-based awards accounted for under the
    intrinsic value method prescribed by APB 25 had vested prior to
    the adoption date and the Company had adopted the fair value
    recognition provisions of SFAS 123 on January 1, 2003.

SFAS 123 allowed forfeitures of stock-based awards to be
    recognized as a reduction of compensation expense in the period
    in which the forfeiture occurred. Upon adoption of
    SFAS 123(r), the Company changed its policy and now
    incorporates an estimate of future forfeitures into the
    determination of compensation expense when recognizing expense
    over the requisite service period. The impact of this change in
    accounting policy was not significant to the Company s
    financial position or results of operations as of the date of
    adoption.

Additionally, for awards granted after adoption, the Company
    changed its policy from recognizing expense for stock-based
    awards over the requisite service period to recognizing such
    expense over the shorter of the requisite service period or the
    period to attainment of retirement-eligibility. The pro forma
    impact of this change in expense recognition policy for
    stock-based compensation is detailed in Note 18 of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(r), the Company presented
    tax benefits of deductions resulting from the exercise of stock
    options within operating cash flows in the consolidated
    statements of cash flows. SFAS 123(r) requires tax benefits
    resulting from tax deductions in excess of the compensation cost
    recognized for those options be classified and reported as a
    financing cash inflow upon adoption of SFAS 123(r).

Other
    Pronouncements  

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted FSP
     No. FIN 39-1, 
     Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39
      ( FSP 39-1 ). 
     FSP 39-1 
    amends FIN 39,  Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain
    Contracts  ( FIN 39 ), to permit a reporting
    entity to offset fair value amounts recognized for the right to
    reclaim cash collateral (a receivable) or the obligation to
    return cash collateral (a payable) against fair value amounts
    recognized for derivative instruments executed with the same
    counterparty under the same master netting arrangement that have
    been offset in accordance with FIN 39.
     FSP 39-1 
    also amends FIN 39 for certain terminology modifications.
    Upon adoption of
     FSP 39-1, 
    the Company did not change its accounting policy of not
    offsetting fair value amounts recognized for derivative
    instruments under master netting arrangements. The adoption of
     FSP 39-1 
    did not have an impact on the Company s consolidated
    financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted
    SAB No. 109,  Written Loan Commitments Recorded at
    Fair Value through Earnings  ( SAB 109 ),
    which amends SAB No. 105,  Application of Accounting
    Principles to Loan Commitments . SAB 109 provides
    guidance on (i) incorporating expected net future cash
    flows when related to the associated servicing of a loan when
    measuring fair value; and (ii) broadening the SEC
    staff s view that internally-developed intangible assets
    should not be recorded as part of the fair value of a derivative
    loan commitment or to written loan commitments that are
    accounted for at fair value through earnings.
    Internally-developed intangible assets are not considered a
    component of the related instruments. The adoption of
    SAB 109 did not have an impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted EITF Issue
     No. 07-6, 
     Accounting for the Sale of Real Estate When the Agreement
    Includes a Buy-Sell Clause
      ( EITF 07-6 ) 
    prospectively.
     EITF 07-6 
    addresses whether the existence of a buy-sell arrangement would
    preclude partial sales treatment when real estate is sold to a
    jointly owned entity.
     EITF 07-6 
    concludes that the existence of a buy-sell clause does not
    necessarily preclude partial sale treatment under current
    guidance. The adoption of EITF
     07-6  did not
    have a material impact on the Company s consolidated
    financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FSP
     No. EITF 00-19-2, 
     Accounting for Registration Payment Arrangements
     ( FSP
     EITF 00-19-2 ). 
    FSP
     EITF 00-19-2 
    specifies that the contingent obligation to make future payments
    or otherwise transfer consideration under a registration payment
    arrangement should be separately

191

Table of Contents   

recognized and measured in accordance with SFAS No. 5,
     Accounting for Contingencies.  The adoption of FSP
     EITF 00-19-2 
    did not have an impact on the Company s consolidated
    financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FSP
     No. FAS 13-2, 
     Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of
    Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged
    Lease Transaction
      ( FSP 13-2 ). 
     FSP 13-2 
    amends SFAS No. 13,  Accounting for Leases , to
    require that a lessor review the projected timing of income tax
    cash flows generated by a leveraged lease annually or more
    frequently if events or circumstances indicate that a change in
    timing has occurred or is projected to occur. In addition,
     FSP 13-2 
    requires that the change in the net investment balance resulting
    from the recalculation be recognized as a gain or loss from
    continuing operations in the same line item in which leveraged
    lease income is recognized in the year in which the assumption
    is changed. The adoption of
     FSP 13-2 
    did not have a material impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted
    SFAS No. 156,  Accounting for Servicing of Financial
    Assets   an amendment of FASB Statement
    No. 140  ( SFAS 156 ). Among other
    requirements, SFAS 156 requires an entity to recognize a
    servicing asset or servicing liability each time it undertakes
    an obligation to service a financial asset by entering into a
    servicing contract in certain situations. The adoption of
    SFAS 156 did not have an impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Effective November 15, 2006, the Company adopted
    SAB No. 108,  Considering the Effects of Prior Year
    Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year
    Financial Statements  ( SAB 108 ).
    SAB 108 provides guidance on how prior year misstatements
    should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current
    year financial statements for purposes of assessing materiality.
    SAB 108 requires that registrants quantify errors using
    both a balance sheet and income statement approach and evaluate
    whether either approach results in quantifying a misstatement
    that, when relevant quantitative and qualitative factors are
    considered, is material. SAB 108 permits companies to
    initially apply its provisions by either restating prior
    financial statements or recording a cumulative effect adjustment
    to the carrying values of assets and liabilities as of
    January 1, 2006 with an offsetting adjustment to retained
    earnings for errors that were previously deemed immaterial but
    are material under the guidance in SAB 108. The adoption of
    SAB 108 did not have a material impact on the
    Company s consolidated financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted
    prospectively EITF Issue
     No. 05-7, 
     Accounting for Modifications to Conversion Options Embedded
    in Debt Instruments and Related Issues
      ( EITF 05-7 ). 
     EITF 05-7 
    provides guidance on whether a modification of conversion
    options embedded in debt results in an extinguishment of that
    debt. In certain situations, companies may change the terms of
    an embedded conversion option as part of a debt modification.
    The EITF concluded that the change in the fair value of an
    embedded conversion option upon modification should be included
    in the analysis of EITF Issue
     No. 96-19, 
     Debtor s Accounting for a Modification or Exchange of
    Debt Instruments , to determine whether a modification or
    extinguishment has occurred and that a change in the fair value
    of a conversion option should be recognized upon the
    modification as a discount (or premium) associated with the
    debt, and an increase (or decrease) in additional paid-in
    capital. The adoption of
     EITF 05-7 
    did not have a material impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted EITF Issue
     No. 05-8, 
     Income Tax Consequences of Issuing Convertible Debt with a
    Beneficial Conversion Feature
      ( EITF 05-8 ). 
     EITF 05-8 
    concludes that: (i) the issuance of convertible debt with a
    beneficial conversion feature results in a basis difference that
    should be accounted for as a temporary difference; and
    (ii) the establishment of the deferred tax liability for
    the basis difference should result in an adjustment to
    additional paid-in capital.
     EITF 05-8 
    was applied retrospectively for all instruments with a
    beneficial conversion feature accounted for in accordance with
    EITF Issue
     No. 98-5, 
     Accounting for Convertible Securities with Beneficial
    Conversion Features or Contingently Adjustable Conversion
    Ratios , and EITF Issue
     No. 00-27, 
     Application of Issue
     No. 98-5 
    to Certain Convertible Instruments. T he adoption of
     EITF 05-8 
    did not have a material impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted
    SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error
    Corrections, a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB
    Statement No. 3  ( SFAS 154 ).
    SFAS 154 requires retrospective application to prior
    periods  financial statements for a voluntary change in
    accounting principle unless it is deemed

192

Table of Contents   

impracticable. It also requires that a change in the method of
    depreciation, amortization, or depletion for long-lived,
    non-financial assets be accounted for as a change in accounting
    estimate rather than a change in accounting principle. The
    adoption of SFAS 154 did not have a material impact on the
    Company s consolidated financial statements.

Future
    Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements  

Business
    Combinations  

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141
    (revised 2007),  Business Combinations   A
    Replacement of FASB Statement No. 141
     ( SFAS 141(r) ) and SFAS No. 160,
     Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
    Statements   An Amendment of ARB No. 51
     ( SFAS 160 ). Under SFAS 141(r) and
    SFAS 160:

All business combinations (whether full, partial or
     step  acquisitions) result in all assets and
    liabilities of an acquired business being recorded at fair
    value, with limited exceptions.

Acquisition costs are generally expensed as incurred;
    restructuring costs associated with a business combination are
    generally expensed as incurred subsequent to the acquisition
    date.

The fair value of the purchase price, including the issuance of
    equity securities, is determined on the acquisition date.

Certain acquired contingent liabilities are recorded at fair
    value at the acquisition date and subsequently measured at
    either the higher of such amount or the amount determined under
    existing guidance for non-acquired contingencies.

Changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income
    tax uncertainties after the acquisition date generally affect
    income tax expense.

Noncontrolling interests (formerly known as  minority
    interests ) are valued at fair value at the acquisition
    date and are presented as equity rather than liabilities.

When control is attained on previously noncontrolling interests,
    the previously held equity interests are remeasured at fair
    value and a gain or loss is recognized.

Purchases or sales of equity interests that do not result in a
    change in control are accounted for as equity transactions.

When control is lost in a partial disposition, realized gains or
    losses are recorded on equity ownership sold and the remaining
    ownership interest is remeasured and holding gains or losses are
    recognized.

The pronouncements are effective for fiscal years beginning on
    or after December 15, 2008 and apply prospectively to
    business combinations after that date. Presentation and
    disclosure requirements related to noncontrolling interests must
    be retrospectively applied. The Company will apply the guidance
    in SFAS 141(r) prospectively on its accounting for future
    acquisitions and does not expect the adoption of SFAS 160
    to have a material impact on the Company s consolidated
    financial statements.

In November 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus on EITF Issue
     No. 08-6, 
     Equity Method Investment Accounting Considerations
      ( EITF 08-6 ). 
     EITF 08-6 
    addresses a number of issues associated with the impact that
    SFAS 141(r) and SFAS 160 might have on the accounting
    for equity method investments, including how an equity method
    investment should initially be measured, how it should be tested
    for impairment, and how changes in classification from equity
    method to cost method should be treated.
     EITF 08-6 
    is effective prospectively for fiscal years beginning on or
    after December 15, 2008. The Company does not expect the
    adoption of
     EITF 08-6 
    to have a material impact on the Company s consolidated
    financial statements.

In November 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus on EITF Issue
     No. 08-7, 
     Accounting for Defensive Intangible Assets
      ( EITF 08-7 ). 
     EITF 08-7 
    requires that an acquired defensive intangible asset (i.e., an
    asset an entity does not intend to actively use, but rather,
    intends to prevent others from using) be accounted for as a
    separate unit of accounting at time of acquisition, not combined
    with the acquirer s existing intangible assets. In
    addition, the EITF concludes that a defensive intangible asset
    may not be considered immediately abandoned following its

193

Table of Contents   

acquisition or have indefinite life. The Company will apply the
    guidance of
     EITF 08-7 
    prospectively to its intangible assets acquired after fiscal
    years beginning on or after December 15, 2008.

In April 2008, the FASB issued FSP
     No. FAS 142-3, 
     Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets
      ( FSP 142-3 ). 
     FSP 142-3 
    amends the factors that should be considered in developing
    renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful
    life of a recognized intangible asset under
    SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
     ( SFAS 142 ). This change is intended to
    improve the consistency between the useful life of a recognized
    intangible asset under SFAS 142 and the period of expected
    cash flows used to measure the fair value of the asset under
    SFAS 141(r) and other GAAP.
     FSP 142-3 
    is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years
    beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods
    within those fiscal years. The requirement for determining
    useful lives and related disclosures will be applied
    prospectively to intangible assets acquired as of, and
    subsequent to, the effective date.

Derivative
    Financial Instruments  

In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,
     Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Activities     An Amendment of FASB Statement
    No. 133  ( SFAS 161 ). SFAS 161
    requires enhanced qualitative disclosures about objectives and
    strategies for using derivatives, quantitative disclosures about
    fair value amounts of and gains and losses on derivative
    instruments, and disclosures about credit-risk-related
    contingent features in derivative agreements. SFAS 161 is
    effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and
    interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008. The
    Company will provide all of the material required disclosures in
    the appropriate future interim and annual periods.

Other
    Pronouncements  

In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP
     No. FAS 132(r)-1, 
     Employers  Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan
    Assets  ( FSP 132(r)-1 ). FSP 132(r)-1
    amends SFAS No. 132(r),  Employers  Disclosures
    about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits  to enhance
    the transparency surrounding the types of assets and associated
    risks in an employer s defined benefit pension or other
    postretirement plan. The FSP requires an employer to disclose
    information about the valuation of plan assets similar to that
    required under SFAS 157. FSP 132(r)-1 is effective for
    fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009. The Company
    will provide all of the material required disclosures in the
    appropriate future annual period.

In September 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus on EITF Issue
     No. 08-5, 
     Issuer s Accounting for Liabilities Measured at Fair
    Value with a Third-Party Credit Enhancement
      ( EITF 08-5 ). 
     EITF 08-5 
    concludes that an issuer of a liability with a third-party
    credit enhancement should not include the effect of the credit
    enhancement in the fair value measurement of the liability. In
    addition,
     EITF 08-5 
    requires disclosures about the existence of any third-party
    credit enhancement related to liabilities that are measured at
    fair value.
     EITF 08-5 
    is effective beginning in the first reporting period after
    December 15, 2008 and will be applied prospectively, with
    the effect of initial application included in the change in fair
    value of the liability in the period of adoption. The Company
    does not expect the adoption of
     EITF 08-5 
    to have a material impact on the Company s consolidated
    financial statements.

In June 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus on EITF Issue
     No. 07-5, 
     Determining Whether an Instrument (or Embedded Feature) Is
    Indexed to an Entity s Own Stock
      ( EITF 07-5 ). 
     EITF 07-5 
    provides a framework for evaluating the terms of a particular
    instrument and whether such terms qualify the instrument as
    being indexed to an entity s own stock.
     EITF 07-5 
    is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years
    beginning after December 15, 2008 and must be applied by
    recording a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance
    of retained earnings at the date of adoption. The Company does
    not expect the adoption of
     EITF 07-5 
    to have a material impact on its consolidated financial
    statements.

In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP
     No. FAS 140-3, 
     Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets and Repurchase
    Financing Transactions
      ( FSP 140-3 ). 
     FSP 140-3 
    provides guidance for evaluating whether to account for a
    transfer of a financial asset and repurchase financing as a
    single transaction or as two separate transactions.
     FSP 140-3 
    is effective prospectively for financial statements issued for
    fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The Company
    does not expect the adoption of
     FSP 140-3 
    to have a material impact on its consolidated financial
    statements.

194

Table of Contents   

Investments  

Investment Risks.   The Company s primary
    investment objective is to optimize, net of income tax,
    risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return
    while ensuring that assets and liabilities are managed on a cash
    flow and duration basis. The Company is exposed to four primary
    sources of investment risk:

credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the
    continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of
    principal and interest;

interest rate risk, relating to the market price and cash flow
    variability associated with changes in market interest rates;

liquidity risk, relating to the diminished ability to sell
    certain investments in times of strained market
    conditions; and

market valuation risk.

The Company manages risk through in-house fundamental analysis
    of the underlying obligors, issuers, transaction structures and
    real estate properties. The Company also manages credit risk,
    market valuation risk and liquidity risk through industry and
    issuer diversification and asset allocation. For real estate and
    agricultural assets, the Company manages credit risk and market
    valuation risk through geographic, property type and product
    type diversification and asset allocation. The Company manages
    interest rate risk as part of its asset and liability management
    strategies; product design, such as the use of market value
    adjustment features and surrender charges; and proactive
    monitoring and management of certain non-guaranteed elements of
    its products, such as the resetting of credited interest and
    dividend rates for policies that permit such adjustments. The
    Company also uses certain derivative instruments in the
    management of credit and interest rate risks.

Current Environment.   Concerns over the
    availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market,
    geopolitical issues, energy costs, inflation and a declining
    real estate market in the United States have contributed to
    increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy
    and the financial markets going forward. These factors, combined
    with declining business and consumer confidence and increased
    unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and with
    the National Bureau of Economic Research having announced in the
    4th quarter of 2008 an ongoing U.S. recession that
    began in December 2007. As a result of the stress experienced by
    the global financial markets, the fixed-income markets are
    experiencing a period of extreme volatility which has negatively
    impacted market liquidity conditions. Initially, the concerns on
    the part of market participants were focused on the sub-prime
    segment of the mortgage-backed securities market. However, these
    concerns have since expanded to include a broad range of
    mortgage-backed and asset-backed and other fixed income
    securities, including those rated investment grade, the
    U.S. and international credit and inter-bank money markets
    generally, and a wide range of financial institutions and
    markets, asset classes and sectors. Securities that are less
    liquid are more difficult to value and have fewer opportunities
    for disposal.

As a result of this unprecedented disruption and market
    dislocation, we have experienced both volatility in the
    valuation of certain investments and decreased liquidity in
    certain asset classes and, as such, have experienced an increase
    in certain Level 3 investments. As demonstrated in  -
    Fixed Maturity Securities   Available for
    Sale   Fair Value Hierarchy,  during 2008 we have
    experienced an increase in certain Level 3 investments
    which include less liquid fixed maturity securities and equity
    securities with very limited trading activity. Even some of our
    very high quality assets have been more illiquid for periods of
    time as a result of the recent challenging market conditions.
    These market conditions have also lead to an increase in
    unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities in
    2008, particularly for residential and commercial
    mortgage-backed, asset-backed and corporate fixed maturity
    securities; and within the Company s financial services
    industry fixed maturity and equity securities holdings.

195

Table of Contents   

Composition
    of Investment Portfolio Results  

The following table illustrates the net investment income, net
    investment gains (losses), annualized yields on average ending
    assets and ending carrying value for each of the components of
    the Company s investment portfolio at:

196

Table of Contents   

(1)  

Yields are based on quarterly average asset carrying values,
    excluding recognized and unrealized investment gains (losses),
    and for yield calculation purposes, average assets exclude
    collateral received from counterparties associated with the
    Company s securities lending program. 

(2)  

Fixed maturity securities include $946 million,
    $779 million and $759 million at estimated fair value
    related to trading securities at December 31, 2008, 2007
    and 2006, respectively. Fixed maturity securities include
    ($193) million, $50 million and $71 million of
    investment income (loss) related to trading securities for the
    years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 

(3)  

Investment income from mortgage and consumer loans includes
    prepayment fees. 

(4)  

Included in net investment income from real estate and real
    estate joint ventures is $3 million, $12 million and
    $92 million related to discontinued operations for the
    years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
    Included in investment gains (losses) from real estate and real
    estate joint ventures is $8 million, $13 million and
    $4,795 million of gains related to discontinued operations
    for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. 

(5)  

Included in investment income from other invested assets are
    scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivative instruments
    that do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133 of
    $5 million, $253 million and $290 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
    These amounts are excluded from investment gains (losses).
    Additionally, excluded from investment gains (losses) is
    $44 million, $25 million and $6 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively,
    related to settlement payments on derivatives used to hedge
    interest rate and currency risk on policyholder account balances
    that do not qualify for hedge accounting. Such amounts are
    included within interest credited to policyholder account
    balances. 

(6)  

Other invested assets are principally comprised of free standing
    derivatives with positive estimated fair values and leveraged
    leases. Freestanding derivatives with negative estimated fair
    values are included within other liabilities. As yield is not
    considered a meaningful measure of performance for other
    invested assets it has been excluded from the table above. 

(7)  

Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform
    to the current period presentation. 

(8)  

The components of investment gains (losses) for the year ended
    December 31, 2008 are shown net of a realized gain under
    purchased credit default swaps that offsets losses incurred on
    certain fixed maturity securities. 

(9)  

The caption  Derivatives not qualifying for hedge
    accounting  is comprised of amounts for freestanding
    derivatives of $5,893 million, ($59) million, and
    ($674) million; and embedded derivatives of
    ($2,650) million, ($321) million, and
    $202 million for the years ended December 31, 2008,
    2007 and 2006, respectively. 

Year
    Ended December 31, 2008 compared with the Year Ended
    December 31, 2007  

Net investment income decreased by $2,024 million, or 11%,
    to $16,304 million for the year ended December 31,
    2008 from $18,328 million for the comparable 2007 period.
    Excluding the impacts of discontinued operations and periodic
    settlement payments on derivatives instruments as described in
    notes 4 and 5 of the yield table presented above, net
    investment income decreased by $1,767 million, or 10%, to
    $16,296 million for the year ended December 31, 2008
    from $18,063 million for the comparable 2007 period.
    Management attributes $3,141 million of this change to a
    decrease in yields, partially offset by an increase of
    $1,374 million due to growth in average invested assets.
    Average invested assets are calculated on the cost basis without
    unrealized gains and losses. The decrease in net investment
    income attributable to lower yields was primarily due to lower
    returns on other limited partnership interests, real estate
    joint ventures, short-term investments, fixed maturity
    securities, and mortgage loans partially offset by improved
    securities lending results. The reduction in yields associated
    with other limited partnership interests were primarily due to
    the lack of liquidity and credit in the financial markets as
    well as unprecedented investor redemptions in an environment
    with steep declines in the public equity and debt markets. The
    decrease in real estate joint ventures yields was primarily due
    to a slow down in lease and related sales activities in a period
    with declining property values as well as fund investment
    write-downs. The decrease in short-term investment yields was
    primarily attributable to declines in short-term interest rates.
    The decrease in the fixed maturity securities  yield was
    primarily due to lower yields on floating rate securities due to
    declines in short-term interest rates and an increased
    allocation to lower yielding

197

Table of Contents   

U.S. Treasuries, partially offset by improved securities
    lending results. The decrease in yields associated with our
    mortgage loan portfolio was primarily attributable to lower
    prepayments on commercial mortgage loans and lower yields on
    variable rate loans due to declines in short-term interest
    rates. The decrease in net investment income attributable to
    lower yields was partially offset by increased net investment
    income attributable to an increase in average invested assets on
    an amortized cost basis, primarily within short-term
    investments, other invested assets including derivatives,
    mortgage loans, other limited partnership interests, and real
    estate joint ventures.

Investment
    Outlook  

Management anticipates that the significant volatility in the
    equity, credit and real estate markets will continue in 2009
    which could continue to impact net investment income and the
    related yields on private equity funds, hedge funds and real
    estate joint ventures, included within our other limited
    partnerships and real estate and real estate joint venture
    portfolios .  Further, in light of the current market
    conditions, liquidity will be reinvested in a prudent manner and
    invested according to our ALM discipline in appropriate assets
    over time. However, considering the continued, uncertain credit
    market conditions, management plans to continue to maintain a
    slightly higher than normal level of short-term liquidity. Net
    investment income may be adversely affected if the reinvestment
    process occurs over an extended period of time due to
    challenging market conditions or asset availability.

Net investment income increased by $1,699 million, or 10%,
    to $18,328 million for the year ended December 31,
    2007 from $16,629 million for the comparable 2006 period.
    Excluding the impacts of discontinued operations and periodic
    settlement payments on derivatives instruments as described in
    notes 4 and 5 to the yield table presented above, net
    investment income increased by $1,816 million, or 11%, to
    $18,063 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
    from $16,247 million for the comparable 2006 period.
    Management attributes $1,078 million of this increase to
    growth in the average asset base and $738 million to an
    increase in yields. Average invested assets are calculated on
    the cost basis without unrealized gains and losses. The increase
    in net investment income attributable to higher yields was
    primarily due to higher returns on fixed maturity securities,
    other limited partnership interests excluding hedge funds,
    equity securities and improved securities lending results,
    partially offset by lower returns on real estate and real estate
    joint ventures, cash and short-term investments, hedge funds and
    mortgage loans. The improvement in yields associated with fixed
    maturity securities was due primarily to higher bond prepayment
    fees related to decreasing interest rates in the second half of
    2007 and to a repositioning of the portfolio in 2006 during a
    rising interest rate environment. The improvement in yields
    associated with other limited partnership interests, excluding
    hedge funds, was due primarily to a robust private equity market
    resulting in improved returns on equity based funds and
    increased distributions on cost basis funds. The increase in
    equity securities yields is primarily related to increased
    earnings on the non-redeemable preferred securities comprised of
    perpetual hybrid securities and higher dividend income on our
    common stock holdings. The decrease in real estate and real
    estate joint ventures yields was primarily due lower income from
    the sale of the Peter Cooper and Stuyvesant Town properties in
    fourth quarter 2006 and reinvestment in real estate joint
    ventures and development funds with more variable income
    streams. The decrease in yields for cash and short-term
    investment was primarily attributable to declines in short-term
    interest rates in the second half of 2007. The decrease in hedge
    fund yields was primarily due to increasing volatility in
    private equity markets in the latter half of 2007, driven by
    economic uncertainty as reflected in credit and equity markets.
    The decrease in yields associated with our mortgage loan
    portfolio was primarily attributable to lower prepayments on
    commercial mortgage loans as well as new loan production at
    lower yields due to the declines in interest rates in the second
    half of 2007.

Fixed
    Maturity and Equity Securities Available-for-Sale   

Fixed maturity securities consisted principally of
    publicly-traded and privately placed fixed maturity securities,
    and represented 58% and 71% of total cash and invested assets at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Based on
    estimated fair value, public fixed maturity securities
    represented $156.7 billion, or 83%, and
    $196.7 billion, or 85%, of total fixed maturity securities
    at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Based on
    estimated fair value, private fixed maturity securities
    represented $31.6 billion, or 17%, and $35.6 billion,
    or 15%, of total fixed maturity securities at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively.

198

Table of Contents   

Valuation of Securities.   Management is
    responsible for the determination of estimated fair value. The
    estimated fair value of publicly-traded fixed maturity, equity
    and trading securities as well as short-term investments is
    determined by management after considering one of three primary
    sources of information: quoted market prices in active markets,
    independent pricing services, or independent broker quotations.
    The number of quotes obtained varies by instrument and depends
    on the liquidity of the particular instrument .  Generally
    we obtain prices from multiple pricing services to cover all
    asset classes and do obtain multiple prices for certain
    securities, but ultimately utilize the price with the highest
    placement in the fair value hierarchy. Independent pricing
    services that value these instruments use market standard
    valuation methodologies based on inputs that are market
    observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated by
    observable market data. Such observable inputs include
    benchmarking prices for similar assets in active, liquid
    markets, quoted prices in markets that are not active and
    observable yields and spreads in the market. The market standard
    valuation methodologies utilized include: discounted cash flow
    methodologies, matrix pricing or similar techniques. The
    assumptions and inputs in applying these market standard
    valuation methodologies include, but are not limited to,
    interest rates, credit standing of the issuer or counterparty,
    industry sector of the issuer, coupon rate, call provisions,
    sinking fund requirements, maturity, estimated duration, and
    management s assumptions regarding liquidity and estimated
    future cash flows. When a price is not available in the active
    market or through an independent pricing service, management
    will value the security primarily using independent non-binding
    broker quotations. Independent non-binding broker quotations
    utilize inputs that are not market observable or cannot be
    derived principally from or corroborated by observable market
    data.

Senior management, independent of the trading and investing
    functions, is responsible for the oversight of control systems
    and valuation policies, including reviewing and approving new
    transaction types and markets, for ensuring that observable
    market prices and market-based parameters are used for valuation
    wherever possible and for determining that judgmental valuation
    adjustments, if any, are based upon established policies and are
    applied consistently over time. Management reviews its valuation
    methodologies on an ongoing basis and ensures that any changes
    to valuation methodologies are justified. The Company gains
    assurance on the overall reasonableness and consistent
    application of input assumptions, valuation methodologies, and
    compliance with accounting standards for fair value
    determination through various controls designed to ensure that
    the financial assets and financial liabilities are appropriately
    valued and represent an exit price. The control systems and
    procedures include, but are not limited to, analysis of
    portfolio returns to corresponding benchmark returns, comparing
    a sample of executed prices of securities sold to the fair value
    estimates, comparing fair value estimates to management s
    knowledge of the current market, reviewing the bid/ask spreads
    to assess activity and ongoing confirmation that independent
    pricing services use, wherever possible, market-based parameters
    for valuation. Management determines the observability of inputs
    used in estimated fair values received from independent pricing
    sources or brokers by assessing whether these inputs can be
    corroborated by observable market data. The Company also follows
    a formal process to challenge any prices received from
    independent pricing services that are not considered
    representative of fair value. If we conclude that prices
    received from independent pricing services are not reflective of
    market activity or representative of estimated fair value, we
    will seek independent non-binding broker quotes or use an
    internally developed valuation to override these prices. Such
    overrides are classified as Level 3. Despite the credit
    events prevalent in the current dislocated markets and reduced
    levels of liquidity at the end of 2008, our internally developed
    valuations of current estimated fair value, which reflect our
    estimates of liquidity and non performance risks, compared with
    pricing received from the independent pricing services, did not
    produce material differences for the vast majority of our fixed
    maturity securities portfolio. Our estimates of liquidity and
    non performance risks are generally based on available market
    evidence and on what other market participants would use. In
    absence of such evidence, management s best estimate is
    used. As a result, we generally continued to use the price
    provided by the independent pricing service under our normal
    pricing protocol and pricing overrides were not material. As
    discussed in the    Fair Value Hierarchy  below,
    during 2008 due to these conditions, we have experienced an
    increase in Level 3 securities holdings which include less
    liquid fixed maturity and equity securities, some with very
    limited trading activity. Even some of our very high quality
    invested assets have been more illiquid for periods of time as a
    result of the challenging market conditions. The Company uses
    the results of this analysis for classifying the estimated fair
    value of these instruments in Level 1, 2 or 3. For example,
    management will review the estimated fair values received to
    determine whether corroborating evidence (i.e., similar
    observable positions and actual

199

Table of Contents   

trades) will support a Level 2 classification in the
    estimated fair value hierarchy. Security prices which cannot be
    corroborated due to relatively less pricing transparency and
    diminished liquidity will be classified as Level 3.

For privately placed fixed maturity securities, the Company
    determines the estimated fair value generally through matrix
    pricing or discounted cash flow techniques. The discounted cash
    flow valuations rely upon the estimated future cash flows of the
    security, credit spreads of comparable public securities, and
    secondary transactions, as well as taking account of, among
    other factors, the credit quality of the issuer and the reduced
    liquidity associated with privately placed debt securities.

The Company has reviewed the significance and observability of
    inputs used in the valuation methodologies to determine the
    appropriate SFAS 157 fair value hierarchy level for each of
    its securities. Based on the results of this review and
    investment class analyses, each instrument is categorized as
    Level 1, 2, or 3 based on the priority of the inputs to the
    respective valuation methodologies. While prices for certain
    U.S. Treasury and agency fixed maturity securities, certain
    foreign government fixed maturity securities, exchange-traded
    common stock, and certain short-term money market securities
    have been classified into Level 1 because of high volumes
    of trading activity and narrow bid/ask spreads, most securities
    valued by independent pricing services have been classified into
    Level 2 because the significant inputs used in pricing
    these securities are market observable or can be corroborated
    using market observable information. Most investment grade
    privately placed fixed maturity securities have been classified
    within Level 2, while most below investment grade or
    distressed privately placed fixed maturity securities have been
    classified within Level 3. Where estimated fair values are
    determined by independent pricing sources or by independent
    non-binding broker quotations that utilize inputs that are not
    market observable or cannot be derived principally from or
    corroborated by observable market data, these instruments have
    been classified as Level 3. Use of independent non-binding
    broker quotations generally indicates there is a lack of
    liquidity or the general lack of transparency in the process to
    develop these price estimates causing them to be considered
    Level 3.

Ratings.   The Securities Valuation Office of
    the NAIC evaluates the fixed maturity investments of insurers
    for regulatory reporting purposes and assigns securities to one
    of six investment categories called  NAIC
    designations.  The NAIC ratings are similar to the rating
    agency designations of the Nationally Recognized Statistical
    Rating Organizations ( NRSROs ) for marketable bonds.
    NAIC ratings 1 and 2 include bonds generally considered
    investment grade (rated  Baa3  or higher by
    Moody s or rated  BBB     or higher by
    S P and Fitch), by such rating organizations. NAIC ratings
    3 through 6 include bonds generally considered below investment
    grade (rated  Ba1  or lower by Moody s, or rated
     BB+  or lower by S P and Fitch).

The following table presents the Company s total fixed
    maturity securities by NRSRO designation and the equivalent
    ratings of the NAIC, as well as the percentage, based on
    estimated fair value, that each designation is comprised of at:

(1)  

Amounts presented are based on rating agency designations.
    Comparisons between NAIC ratings and rating agency designations
    are published by the NAIC. The rating agency designations are
    based on availability and the midpoint of the applicable ratings
    among Moody s, S P and Fitch. If no rating is
    available from a rating agency, then the MetLife rating is used. 

200

Table of Contents   

Below Investment Grade or Non-Rated Fixed Maturity
    Securities.   The Company held fixed maturity
    securities at estimated fair values that were below investment
    grade or not rated by an independent rating agency that totaled
    $12.4 billion and $17.4 billion at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively. These securities had net unrealized
    losses of $5,094 million and $103 million at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Non-Income Producing Fixed Maturity
    Securities.   Non-income producing fixed maturity
    securities at estimated fair value were $75 million and
    $12 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. Net unrealized gains (losses) associated with
    non-income producing fixed maturity securities were
    ($19) million and $11 million at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively.

Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Enhanced by Financial
    Guarantee Insurers.   At December 31, 2008,
    $4.9 billion of the estimated fair value of the
    Company s fixed maturity securities were credit enhanced by
    financial guarantee insurers of which $2.0 billion,
    $2.0 billion and $0.9 billion, are included within
    state and political subdivision securities, U.S. corporate
    securities, and asset-backed securities, respectively, and 15%
    and 68% were guaranteed by financial guarantee insurers who were
    Aa and Baa rated, respectively. As described below, all of the
    asset-backed securities that are credit enhanced by financial
    guarantee insurers are asset-backed securities which are backed
    by sub-prime mortgage loans.

Gross Unrealized Gains and Losses.   The
    following tables present the cost or amortized cost, gross
    unrealized gain and loss, estimated fair value of the
    Company s fixed maturity and equity securities, and the
    percentage that each sector represents by the respective total
    holdings at:

201

Table of Contents   

(1)  

Equity securities primarily consist of investments in common and
    preferred stocks and mutual fund interests. Such securities
    include common stock of privately held companies with an
    estimated fair value of $1.1 billion and $569 million
    at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(2)  

The Company classifies perpetual securities that have attributes
    of both debt and equity as fixed maturity securities if the
    security has a punitive interest rate step-up feature as it
    believes in most instances this feature will compel the issuer
    to redeem the security at the specified call date. Perpetual
    securities that do not have a punitive interest rate step-up
    feature are classified as non-redeemable preferred stock. Many
    of such securities have been issued by non-U.S. financial
    institutions that are accorded Tier 1 and Upper Tier 2
    capital treatment by their respective regulatory bodies and are
    commonly referred to as  perpetual hybrid securities. 
    Perpetual hybrid securities classified as non-redeemable
    preferred stock held by the Company at December 31, 2008
    and 2007 had an estimated fair value of $1,224 million and
    $2,051 million respectively. In addition, the Company held
    $288 million and $923 million at estimated fair value,
    respectively, at December 31, 2008 and 2007 of other
    perpetual hybrid securities, primarily U.S. financial
    institutions, also included in non-redeemable preferred stock.
    Perpetual hybrid securities held by the Company and included
    within fixed maturity securities (primarily within foreign
    corporate securities) at December 31, 2008 and 2007 had an
    estimated fair value of $2,110 million and
    $3,896 million, respectively. In addition, the Company held
    $46 million and $57 million at estimated fair values,
    respectively, at December 31, 2008 and 2007 of other
    perpetual hybrid securities, primarily U.S. financial
    institutions, included in fixed maturity securities. 

(3)  

At December 31, 2008 and 2007 the Company also held
    $2,052 million and $3,432 million at estimated fair
    value, respectively, of redeemable preferred stock which have
    stated maturity dates which are included within fixed maturity
    securities. These securities are primarily issued by
    U.S. financial institutions, have cumulative interest
    deferral features and are commonly referred to as  capital
    securities  within U.S. corporate securities. 

Concentrations of Credit Risk.   The Company is
    not exposed to any significant concentrations of credit risk of
    any single issuer greater than 10% of the Company s
    stockholders  in its equity securities portfolio.

The Company is not exposed to any concentrations of credit risk
    of any single issuer greater than 10% of the Company s
    stockholders  equity, other than securities of the
    U.S. government and certain U.S. government agencies.
    At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company s holdings
    in U.S. Treasury and agency fixed maturity securities at
    estimated fair value were $21.3 billion and
    $21.2 billion, respectively. As shown in the sector table
    above, at December 31, 2008 the Company s three
    largest exposures in its fixed maturity security portfolio were
    U.S. corporate fixed maturity securities (33.6%),
    residential mortgage-backed securities (19.2%), and foreign

202

Table of Contents   

corporate securities (15.8%); and at December 31, 2007 were
    U.S. corporate fixed maturity securities (31.8%),
    residential mortgage-backed securities (23.7%), and foreign
    corporate securities (16.0%). Additionally, at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, the Company had exposure to fixed maturity
    securities backed by sub-prime mortgages with estimated fair
    values of $1.1 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively,
    and unrealized losses of $730 million and
    $198 million, respectively. These securities are classified
    within asset-backed securities in the immediately preceding
    table.

See also    Investments   Fixed
    Maturity and Equity Securities Available-for-Sale  
    Corporate Fixed Maturity Securities  and
       Structured Securities  for a description
    of concentrations of credit risk related to these asset
    subsectors.

At December 31, 2008, the Company s direct investments
    in fixed maturity securities and equity securities in Lehman
    Brothers Holdings Inc. ( Lehman ), Washington Mutual,
    Inc. ( Washington Mutual ) and American International
    Group, Inc. ( AIG ) have an aggregate carrying value
    (after impairments) of approximately $360 million. In
    addition, the Company has made secured loans to affiliates of
    Lehman which are fully collateralized. See also
       Investments   Fixed Maturity
    and Equity Securities Available-for-Sale  
    Impairments. 

Fair Value Hierarchy.   Fixed maturity
    securities and equity securities measured at estimated fair
    value on a recurring basis and their corresponding fair value
    sources and fair value hierarchy, are summarized as follows:

203

Table of Contents   

Composition and pricing source for significant Level 3
    fixed maturity and equity securities are as follows:

As shown above, the majority of the Level 3 fixed maturity
    and equity securities (91%) are concentrated in four of the
    sectors shown above, U.S. and foreign corporate securities,
    asset-backed securities and non-redeemable preferred securities.
    The pricing sources for these sectors are as follows at
    December 31, 2008:

Level 3 fixed maturity securities are priced principally
    through independent broker quotations or market standard
    valuation methodologies using inputs that are not market
    observable or cannot be derived principally from or corroborated
    by observable market data. Level 3 fixed maturity
    securities consists of less liquid fixed maturity securities
    with very limited trading activity or where less price
    transparency exists around the inputs to the valuation
    methodologies including below investment grade private
    placements and less liquid investment grade corporate securities
    (included in U.S. and foreign corporate securities) and
    less liquid asset-backed securities including securities
    supported by sub-prime mortgage loans (included in asset-backed
    securities). Level 3 non-redeemable preferred securities
    include securities with very limited trading activity or where
    less price transparency exists around the inputs to the
    valuation.

The change in Level 3 fixed maturity securities during the
    period was as follows:

During the year ended December 31, 2008, Level 3 fixed
    maturity securities decreased by $5,910 million or 25%, due
    primarily to increased unrealized losses recognized in other
    comprehensive income (loss) and to a lesser extent sales and
    settlements in excess of purchases. The increased unrealized
    losses in fixed maturity securities were concentrated in
    asset-backed securities (including residential mortgage-backed
    securities backed by sub-prime mortgage loans), U.S. and
    foreign corporate securities and to a lesser extent commercial
    mortgage-backed securities due to current market conditions
    including less liquidity and increased spreads for such
    securities. Net sales and settlements in excess of purchases of
    fixed maturity securities were concentrated in asset-backed
    securities (including residential mortgage-backed securities
    backed by sub-prime mortgage loans) and U.S. and foreign
    corporate securities.

204

Table of Contents   

A rollforward of the fair value measurements for fixed maturity
    securities and equity securities measured at estimated fair
    value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable
    (Level 3) inputs for the year ended December 31,
    2008 is as follows:

Transfers in and/or out of Level 3  

a) Total gains and losses (in earnings and other
    comprehensive income (loss)) are calculated assuming transfers
    in (out) of Level 3 occurred at the beginning of the
    period. Items transferred in and out in the same period are
    excluded from the rollforward.

b) Net transfers in
     and/or  out
    of Level 3 for fixed maturity securities were
    $1,839 million for the year ended December 31, 2008
    and were comprised of transfers in of $3,522 million and
    transfers out of ($1,683) million. Net transfers in
     and/or  out
    of Level 3 for equity securities were ($29) million
    for the year ended December 31, 2008 and were comprised of
    transfers in of $38 million and transfers out of
    ($67) million.

c) Included in earnings and other comprehensive income
    (loss) in the above table, that were incurred for transfers in
    subsequent to their transfer to Level 3 were
    ($479) million and ($723) million, respectively, for
    fixed maturity securities, and ($20) million and
    ($3) million, respectively, for equity securities, for the
    year ended December 31, 2008.

d) Overall, transfers in
     and/or  out
    of Level 3 are attributable to a change in the
    observability of inputs. During the year ended December 31,
    2008, fixed maturity securities transfers into Level 3 of
    $3,522 million resulted primarily from current market
    conditions characterized by a lack of trading activity,
    decreased liquidity, fixed maturity securities going into
    default, and ratings downgrades (e.g. from investment grade to
    below investment grade). These current market conditions have
    resulted in decreased transparency of valuations, and an
    increased use of broker quotations and unobservable inputs to
    determine fair value. During the year ended December 31,
    2008, fixed maturity securities transfers out of Level 3 of
    ($1,683) million resulted primarily from increased
    transparency of both new issuances that subsequent to issuance
    and establishment of trading activity became priced by pricing
    services and existing issuances that, over time, the Company was
    able to corroborate pricing received from independent pricing
    services with observable inputs.

See    Summary of Critical Accounting
    Estimates   Investments  for further information
    on the estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts
    reported above.

205

Table of Contents   

Net Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses).   The
    components of net unrealized investment gains (losses), included
    in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), are as follows:

The changes in net unrealized investment gains (losses) are as
    follows:

206

Table of Contents   

The following tables present the cost or amortized cost, gross
    unrealized loss and number of securities for fixed maturity and
    equity securities, where the estimated fair value had declined
    and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%, or
    20% or more at:

The Company performs a regular evaluation, on a
     security-by-security 
    basis, of its investment holdings in accordance with its
    impairment policy in order to evaluate whether such securities
    are other-than-temporarily impaired. One of the criteria which
    the Company considers in its other-than-temporary impairment
    analysis is its intent and ability to hold securities for a
    period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of their
    value to an amount equal to or greater than cost or amortized
    cost. The Company s intent and ability to hold securities
    considers broad portfolio management objectives such as
    asset/liability duration management, issuer and industry segment
    exposures, interest rate views and the overall total return
    focus. In following these portfolio management objectives,
    changes in facts and circumstances that were present in past
    reporting periods may trigger a decision to sell securities that
    were held in prior reporting periods. Decisions to sell are
    based on current conditions or the Company s need to shift
    the portfolio to maintain its portfolio management objectives
    including liquidity needs or

207

Table of Contents   

duration targets on asset/liability managed portfolios. The
    Company attempts to anticipate these types of changes and if a
    sale decision has been made on an impaired security and that
    security is not expected to recover prior to the expected time
    of sale, the security will be deemed other-than-temporarily
    impaired in the period that the sale decision was made and an
    other-than-temporary impairment loss will be recognized. See
       Summary of Critical Accounting
    Estimates   Investments. 

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, $8.0 billion and
    $3.9 billion, respectively, of unrealized losses related to
    fixed maturity securities with an unrealized loss position of
    less than 20% of cost or amortized cost, which represented 9%
    and 4%, respectively, of the cost or amortized cost of such
    securities. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, $75 million
    and $316 million, respectively, of unrealized losses
    related to equity securities with an unrealized loss position of
    less than 20% of cost, which represented 13% and 10%,
    respectively, of the cost of such securities.

At December 31, 2008, $20.8 billion and
    $903 million of unrealized losses related to fixed maturity
    securities and equity securities, respectively, with an
    unrealized loss position of 20% or more of cost or amortized
    cost, which represented 38% and 43% of the cost or amortized
    cost of such fixed maturity securities and equity securities,
    respectively. Of such unrealized losses of $20.8 billion
    and $903 million, $17.2 billion and $519 million
    related to fixed maturity securities and equity securities,
    respectively, that were in an unrealized loss position for a
    period of less than six months. At December 31, 2007,
    $402 million and $133 million of unrealized losses
    related to fixed maturity securities and equity securities,
    respectively, with an unrealized loss position of 20% or more of
    cost or amortized cost, which represented 28% and 31% of the
    cost or amortized cost of such fixed maturity securities and
    equity securities, respectively. Of such unrealized losses of
    $402 million and $133 million, $383 million and
    $133 million related to fixed maturity securities and
    equity securities, respectively, that were in an unrealized loss
    position for a period of less than six months.

The Company held 699 fixed maturity securities and 33 equity
    securities, each with a gross unrealized loss at
    December 31, 2008 of greater than $10 million. These
    699 fixed maturity securities represented 50%, or
    $14.5 billion in the aggregate, of the gross unrealized
    loss on fixed maturity securities. These 33 equity securities
    represented 71%, or $699 million in the aggregate, of the
    gross unrealized loss on equity securities. The Company held 23
    fixed maturity securities and six equity securities, each with a
    gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2007 of greater than
    $10 million. These 23 fixed maturity securities represented
    8%, or $357 million in the aggregate, of the gross
    unrealized loss on fixed maturity securities. These six equity
    securities represented 20%, or $90 million in the
    aggregate, of the gross unrealized loss on equity securities.
    The fixed maturity and equity securities, each with a gross
    unrealized loss greater than $10 million, increased
    $14.7 billion during the year ended December 31, 2008.
    These securities were included in the regular evaluation of
    whether such securities are other-than-temporarily impaired.
    Based upon the Company s current evaluation of these
    securities in accordance with its impairment policy, the cause
    of the decline being primarily attributable to a rise in market
    yields caused principally by an extensive widening of credit
    spreads which resulted from a lack of market liquidity and a
    short-term market dislocation versus a long-term deterioration
    in credit quality, and the Company s current intent and
    ability to hold the fixed maturity and equity securities with
    unrealized losses for a period of time sufficient for them to
    recover, the Company has concluded that these securities are not
    other-than-temporarily impaired.

In the Company s impairment review process, the duration
    of, and severity of, an unrealized loss position, such as
    unrealized losses of 20% or more for equity securities, which
    was $903 million and $133 million at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively, is given greater weight and
    consideration, than for fixed maturity securities. An extended
    and severe unrealized loss position on a fixed maturity security
    may not have any impact on the ability of the issuer to service
    all scheduled interest and principal payments and the
    Company s evaluation of recoverability of all contractual
    cash flows, as well as the Company s ability and intent to
    hold the security, including holding the security until the
    earlier of a recovery in value, or until maturity. In contrast,
    for an equity security, greater weight and consideration is
    given by the Company to a decline in market value and the
    likelihood such market value decline will recover.

Equity securities with an unrealized loss of 20% or more for six
    months or greater was $384 million at December 31,
    2008, of which, $382 million of the unrealized losses, or
    99%, are for non-redeemable preferred securities, of which
    $377 million of the unrealized losses, or 99%, are for
    investment grade non-redeemable preferred securities. Of the
    $377 million of unrealized losses for investment grade
    non-redeemable preferred

208

Table of Contents   

securities, $372 million of the unrealized losses, or 99%,
    was comprised of unrealized losses on investment grade financial
    services industry non-redeemable preferred securities, of which
    85% are rated A or higher.

Equity securities with an unrealized loss of 20% or more for
    less than six months was $519 million at December 31,
    2008 of which $427 million of the unrealized losses, or
    82%, are for non-redeemable preferred securities, of which
    $421 million of the unrealized losses, or 98% are for
    investment grade non-redeemable preferred securities. Of the
    $421 million of unrealized losses for investment grade
    non-redeemable preferred securities, $417 million of the
    unrealized losses, or 99%, was comprised of unrealized losses on
    investment grade financial services industry non-redeemable
    preferred securities, of which 81% are rated A or higher.

There were no equity securities with an unrealized loss of 20%
    or more for twelve months or greater.

In connection with the equity securities impairment review
    process during 2008, the Company evaluated its holdings in
    non-redeemable preferred securities, particularly those of
    financial services industry companies. The Company considered
    several factors including whether there has been any
    deterioration in credit of the issuer and the likelihood of
    recovery in value of non-redeemable preferred securities with a
    severe or an extended unrealized loss. With respect to common
    stock holdings, the Company considered the duration and severity
    of the securities in an unrealized loss position of 20% or more;
    and the duration of the securities in an unrealized loss
    position of 20% or less with an extended unrealized loss
    position (i.e. 12 months or more).

At December 31, 2008, there are $903 million of equity
    securities with an unrealized losses of 20% or more, of which
    $809 million of the unrealized losses, or 90%, were for
    non-redeemable preferred securities. Through December 31,
    2008, $798 million of the unrealized losses of 20% or more,
    or 99%, of the non-redeemable preferred securities were
    investment grade securities, of which, $789 million of the
    unrealized losses of 20% or more, or 99%, are investment grade
    financial services industry non-redeemable preferred securities;
    and all non-redeemable preferred securities with unrealized
    losses of 20% or more, regardless of rating, have not deferred
    any dividend payments.

Also, the Company believes the unrealized loss position is not
    necessarily predictive of the ultimate performance of these
    securities, and with respect to fixed maturity securities, it
    has the ability and intent to hold until the earlier of the
    recovery in value, or until maturity, and with respect to equity
    securities, it has the ability and intent to hold until the
    recovery in value.

Future other-than-temporary impairments will depend primarily on
    economic fundamentals, issuer performance, changes in collateral
    valuation, changes in interest rates, and changes in credit
    spreads. If economic fundamentals and other of the above factors
    continue to deteriorate, additional other-than-temporary
    impairments may be incurred in upcoming quarters. See also
       Investments   Fixed Maturity and
    Equity Securities Available-for-Sale
      Impairments. 

209

Table of Contents   

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company s gross
    unrealized losses related to its fixed maturity and equity
    securities of $29.8 billion and $4.7 billion,
    respectively, were concentrated, calculated as a percentage of
    gross unrealized loss, as follows:

Writedowns.  

The components of fixed maturity and equity securities net
    investment gains (losses) are as follows:

(1)  

Other than credit-related writedowns include items such as
    equity securities where the primary reason for the writedown was
    the severity and/or the duration of an unrealized loss position
    and fixed maturity securities where an interest-rate related
    writedown was taken. 

210

Table of Contents   

Overview of Fixed Maturity and Equity Security Writedowns.
     Writedowns of fixed maturity and equity securities were
    $1.7 billion, $97 million and $80 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
    Writedowns of fixed maturity securities were $1.3 billion,
    $78 million and $56 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Writedowns
    of equity securities were $430 million, $19 million
    and $24 million for the years ended December 31, 2008,
    2007 and 2006, respectively.

The Company s credit-related writedowns of fixed maturity
    and equity securities were $1.2 billion, $77 million
    and $80 million for the years ended December 31, 2008,
    2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company s credit-related
    writedowns of fixed maturity securities were $1.1 billion,
    $58 million and $56 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The
    Company s credit-related writedowns of equity securities
    were $90 million, $19 million and $24 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. The $90 million of credit-related equity
    securities writedowns in 2008 were primarily on non-redeemable
    preferred securities.

The Company s three largest impairments totaled
    $528 million, $19 million and $33 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

The Company records impairments as investment losses and adjusts
    the cost basis of the fixed maturity and equity securities
    accordingly. The Company does not change the revised cost basis
    for subsequent recoveries in value.

The Company sold or disposed of fixed maturity and equity
    securities at a loss that had an estimated fair value of
    $29.9 billion, $47.1 billion and $69.2 billion
    during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. Gross losses excluding impairments for fixed
    maturity and equity securities were $1.8 billion,
    $1.1 billion and $1.5 billion for the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

2008   Financial Institutions, Individually
    Significant and Trust Preferred Security Impairments. 
    Of the fixed maturity and equity securities impairments of
    $1.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008,
    $1,014 million were concentrated in the Company s
    financial services industry securities holdings and were
    comprised of $673 million in impairments on fixed maturity
    securities and $341 million in impairments on equity
    securities. The circumstances that gave rise to these
    impairments were financial restructurings, bankruptcy filings or
    difficult underlying operating environments for the entities
    concerned. A significant portion of the impairments were
    concentrated in three particular financial institutions that
    entered bankruptcy, were subject to Federal Deposit Insurance
    Corporation ( FDIC ) receivership or received federal
    government capital infusions as described further below:

Lehman    In connection with the filing on
    September 15, 2008 by Lehman of a Chapter 11
    bankruptcy petition, the Company recorded in 2008, impairments
    totaling $372 million (i.e., $329 million fixed
    maturity securities and $43 million equity securities) as
    follows related to Lehman   $256 million of
    Lehman senior unsecured debt and subordinated debt,
    $73 million of debt instruments issued by a special-purpose
    entity backed by Lehman obligations, and $43 million of
    Lehman non-redeemable preferred securities. The Company has also
    made secured loans to affiliates of Lehman which are fully
    collateralized; accordingly, no impairment charge has been
    recorded.

Washington Mutual    In connection with the
    September 25, 2008 acquisition of Washington Mutual s
    banking operation by JP Morgan Chase   Co. relating to
    the FDIC receivership of its bank subsidiaries, which
    transaction excluded the assumption of any senior unsecured
    debt, subordinated debt, and preferred securities of Washington
    Mutual and its bank subsidiaries, the Company recorded
    impairments in 2008, totaling $197 million (i.e.,
    $125 million fixed maturity securities and $72 million
    equity securities) as follows   $125 million of
    Washington Mutual subordinated debt, $71 million of
    Washington Mutual non-redeemable preferred securities, and less
    than $1 million of Washington Mutual common stock holdings.
    These impairments were partially offset by a $17 million
    realized gain on credit default swaps purchased on Washington
    Mutual debt.

AIG    In connection with the September 23,
    2008 definitive agreement between AIG and the Federal Reserve
    Bank of New York for a two-year revolving credit facility and
    issuance of preferred stock that

211

Table of Contents   

granted 79.9% common stock voting power to the United States
    Treasury, the Company recorded impairments on securities for the
    year ended December 31, 2008 totaling $37 million
    (i.e., $35 million fixed maturity securities and
    $2 million equity securities) as follows  
    $35 million of AIG unsecured subordinated debt holdings,
    and $2 million of AIG common stock. Additionally, a
    $2 million impairment was recorded on an AIG
    affiliate-managed other limited partnership investment for the
    year ended December 31, 2008, for a total AIG impairment of
    $37 million for the year ended December 31, 2008.

Overall, impairments related to these three counterparties
    accounted for impairments on fixed maturity and equity
    securities of $489 million and $117 million,
    respectively, for a total of $606 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2008. These three counterparties account
    for substantial portion, $489 million, of the financial
    institution related fixed maturity security impairments of
    $673 million; however, at $117 million, they do not
    account for the majority of the financial institution related
    equity security impairments of $341 million which are
    nearly all related to writedowns of non-redeemable preferred
    securities, included in non-redeemable preferred stock.

2008 Impairments   Summary of Fixed Maturity
    Security Impairments.  Overall impairments of fixed maturity
    securities were $1.3 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2008. This substantial increase over the prior
    year was driven by impairments of: 1) $673 million on
    financial services industry fixed maturity security holdings as
    described previously; 2) $241 million were on
    communication and consumer industries holdings;
    3) $164 million on asset-backed (substantially all are
    backed by or exposed to sub-prime mortgage loans) and below
    investment grade commercial mortgage-backed holdings; and
    4) $218 million in fixed maturity security holdings
    that the Company either lacked the intent to hold, or due to
    extensive credit spread widening, the Company was uncertain of
    its intent to hold these fixed maturity securities for a period
    of time sufficient to allow for recovery of the market value
    decline Overall, $1.1 billion of the impairments were
    considered to be credit-related and are included in the
    $1.2 billion of credit-related impairments of fixed
    maturities and equity securities described previously.

2008 Impairments   Summary of Equity Security
    Impairments.  Equity security impairments recorded in 2008
    totaled $430 million. Included within the $430 million
    of impairments on equity securities in 2008 are
    $341 million related to the financial services industry
    holdings, (of which, $90 million related to the financial
    services industry non-redeemable preferred securities) and
    $89 million across several industries including consumer,
    communications, industrial and utility. As described previously,
    $117 million of these equity security impairments related
    to Lehman, Washington Mutual and AIG. As a result of the
    Company s equity securities impairment review process,
    which included a review of the duration of, and or the severity
    of the unrealized loss position of its equity securities
    holdings, additional other-than-temporary impairment charges
    totaling $313 million were recorded for the year ended
    December 31, 2008. These additional impairments were
    principally related to impairments on non-redeemable trust
    preferred securities holdings of financial services industry
    securities holdings that had either been in an unrealized loss
    position for an extended duration (i.e., 12 months or
    more), or were in a severe unrealized loss position. In fourth
    quarter of 2008, the Company not only considered the severity
    and duration of unrealized losses on its non-redeemable
    preferred security holdings, but placed greater weight and
    emphasis on whether there has been any credit deterioration in
    the issuer of these holdings in accordance with recent published
    guidance. Overall, $90 million of the impairments were
    considered to be credit related and are included in the
    $1.2 billion of credit related impairments of fixed
    maturity and equity securities described previously.

Future Impairments.  Future other-than-temporary
    impairments will depend primarily on economic fundamentals,
    issuer performance, changes in collateral valuation, changes in
    interest rates, and changes in credit spreads. If economic
    fundamentals and other of the above factors continue to
    deteriorate, additional other-than-temporary impairments may be
    incurred in upcoming periods. See also    
    Investments   Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities
    Available-for-Sale   Net Unrealized Investment Gains
    (Losses). 

212

Table of Contents   

Corporate Fixed Maturity Securities.   The table
    below shows the major industry types that comprise the corporate
    fixed maturity holdings at:

(1)  

Includes U.S. dollar-denominated debt obligations of foreign
    obligors, and other fixed maturity foreign investments. 

The Company maintains a diversified corporate fixed maturity
    portfolio across industries and issuers. The portfolio does not
    have exposure to any single issuer in excess of 1% of the total
    invested assets of the portfolio. At December 31, 2008 and
    2007, the Company s combined holdings in the ten issuers to
    which it had the greatest exposure totaled $8.4 billion and
    $7.8 billion, respectively, the total of these ten issuers
    being less than 3% of the Company s total invested assets
    at such dates. The exposure to the largest single issuer of
    corporate fixed maturity securities held at December 31,
    2008 and 2007 was $1.5 billion and $1.2 billion,
    respectively.

The Company has hedged all of its material exposure to foreign
    currency risk in its corporate fixed maturity portfolio. In the
    Company s international insurance operations, both its
    assets and liabilities are generally denominated in local
    currencies.

Structured Securities.   The following table
    shows the types of structured securities the Company held at:

Collateralized mortgage obligations are a type of
    mortgage-backed security that creates separate pools or tranches
    of pass-through cash flows for different classes of bondholders
    with varying maturities. Pass-through mortgage-backed securities
    are a type of asset-backed security that is secured by a
    mortgage or collection of mortgages. The monthly mortgage
    payments from homeowners pass from the originating bank through
    an intermediary, such as a government agency or investment bank,
    which collects the payments, and for fee, remits or passes these
    payments through to the holders of the pass-through securities.

213

Table of Contents   

Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities.   At
    December 31, 2008, the exposures in the Company s
    residential mortgage-backed securities portfolio consist of
    agency, prime, and alternative residential mortgage loans
    ( Alt-A ) securities of 68%, 23%, and 9% of the total
    holdings, respectively. At December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    $33.3 billion and $54.7 billion, respectively, or 92%
    and 99% respectively, of the residential mortgage-backed
    securities were rated Aaa/AAA by Moody s, S P or
    Fitch. The majority of the agency residential mortgage-backed
    securities are guaranteed or otherwise supported by the Federal
    National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage
    Corporation or the Government National Mortgage Association.
    Prime residential mortgage lending includes the origination of
    residential mortgage loans to the most credit-worthy customers
    with high quality credit profiles. Alt-A residential mortgage
    loans are a classification of mortgage loans where the risk
    profile of the borrower falls between prime and sub-prime. At
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company s Alt-A
    residential mortgage-backed securities exposure was
    $3.4 billion and $6.3 billion, respectively, with an
    unrealized loss of $1,963 million and $139 million,
    respectively. At December 31, 2008 and December 31,
    2007, $2.1 billion and $6.3 billion, respectively, or
    63% and 99%, respectively, of the Company s Alt-A
    residential mortgage-backed securities were rated Aa/AA or
    better by Moody s, S P or Fitch; At December 31,
    2008 the Company s Alt-A holdings are distributed as
    follows: 23% 2007 vintage year, 25% 2006 vintage year; and 52%
    in the 2005 and prior vintage years. Vintage year refers to the
    year of origination and not to the year of purchase. In December
    2008, certain Alt-A residential mortgage-backed securities
    experienced ratings downgrades from investment grade to below
    investment grade, contributing to the decrease year over year
    cited above in those securities rated Aa/AA or better. In
    January 2009 Moody s revised its loss projections for Alt-A
    residential mortgage-backed securities, and the Company
    anticipates that Moody s will be downgrading virtually all
    2006 and 2007 vintage year Alt-A securities to below investment
    grade, which will increase the percentage of our Alt-A
    residential mortgage-backed securities portfolio that will be
    rated below investment grade. Our analysis suggests that
    Moody s is applying essentially the same default
    methodology to all Alt-A bonds, regardless of the underlying
    collateral. The Company s Alt-A portfolio has superior
    structure to the overall Alt-A market. The Company s Alt-A
    portfolio is 88% fixed rate collateral, has zero exposure to
    option ARM mortgages and has only 12% hybrid ARMs. Fixed rate
    mortgages have performed better than both option ARMs and hybrid
    ARMs. Additionally, 83% of the Company s Alt-A portfolio
    has super senior credit enhancement, which typically provides
    double the credit enhancement of a standard AAA rated bond.
    Based upon the analysis of the Company s exposure to Alt-A
    mortgage loans through its investment in asset-backed
    securities, the Company continues to expect to receive payments
    in accordance with the contractual terms of the securities.

Asset-Backed Securities.   The Company s
    asset-backed securities are diversified both by sector and by
    issuer. At December 31, 2008, the largest exposures in the
    Company s asset-backed securities portfolio were credit
    card receivables, automobile receivables, student loan
    receivables and residential mortgage-backed securities backed by
    sub-prime mortgage loans of 49%, 10%, 10% and 10% of the total
    holdings, respectively. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the
    Company s holdings in asset-backed securities was
    $10.5 billion and $10.6 billion at estimated fair
    value. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, $7.9 billion and
    $5.7 billion, respectively, or 75% and 54%, respectively,
    of total asset-backed securities were rated Aaa/AAA by
    Moody s, S P or Fitch.

The Company s asset-backed securities included in the
    structured securities table above include exposure to
    residential mortgage-backed securities backed by sub-prime
    mortgage loans. Sub-prime mortgage lending is the origination of
    residential mortgage loans to customers with weak credit
    profiles. The Company s exposure exists through investment
    in asset-backed securities which are supported by sub-prime
    mortgage loans. The slowing U.S. housing market, greater
    use of affordable mortgage products, and relaxed underwriting
    standards for some originators of below-prime loans have
    recently led to higher delinquency and loss rates, especially
    within the 2006 and 2007 vintage year. Vintage year refers to
    the year of origination and not to the year of purchase. These
    factors have caused a pull-back in market liquidity and
    repricing of risk, which has led to an increase in unrealized
    losses from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008.
    Based upon the analysis of the Company s exposure to
    sub-prime mortgage loans through its investment in asset-backed
    securities, the Company expects to receive payments in
    accordance with the contractual terms of the securities.

214

Table of Contents   

The following table shows the Company s exposure to
    asset-backed securities supported by sub-prime mortgage loans by
    credit quality and by vintage year:

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company had asset-backed
    securities supported by sub-prime mortgage loans with estimated
    fair values of $1.1 billion and $2.0 billion,
    respectively, and unrealized losses of $730 million and
    $198 million, respectively, as outlined in the tables
    above. At December 31, 2008, approximately 82% of the
    portfolio is rated Aa or better of which 82% was in vintage year
    2005 and prior. At December 31, 2007, approximately 98% of
    the portfolio was rated Aa or better of which 79% was in vintage
    year 2005 and prior. These older vintages benefit from better
    underwriting, improved enhancement levels and higher residential
    property price appreciation. At December 31, 2008, 37% of
    the asset-backed securities backed by sub-prime mortgage loans
    have been guaranteed by financial guarantee insurers, of which
    19% and 37% were guaranteed by financial guarantee insurers who
    were Aa and Baa rated, respectively. At December 31, 2008,
    all of the $1.1 billion of asset-backed securities
    supported by sub-prime mortgage loans were classified as
    Level 3 securities.

Asset-backed securities also include collateralized debt
    obligations backed by sub-prime mortgage loans at an aggregate
    cost of $20 million with an estimated fair value of
    $10 million at December 31, 2008 and an aggregate cost
    of $63 million with an estimated fair value of
    $47 million at December 31, 2007, which are not
    included in the tables above.

Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities.   There
    have been disruptions in the commercial mortgage-backed
    securities market due to market perceptions that default rates
    will increase in part due weakness in commercial real estate
    market fundamentals and due in part to relaxed underwriting
    standards by some originators of commercial mortgage loans
    within the more recent vintage years (i.e. 2006 and later).
    These factors have caused a pull-back in market liquidity,
    increased spreads and repricing of risk, which has led to an
    increase in unrealized losses since third

215

Table of Contents   

quarter 2008. Based upon the analysis of the Company s
    exposure to commercial mortgage-backed securities, the Company
    expects to receive payments in accordance with the contractual
    terms of the securities.

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company s holdings
    in commercial mortgage-backed securities was $12.6 billion
    and $17.0 billion, respectively, at estimated fair value.
    At December 31, 2008 and 2007, $11.8 billion and
    $14.9 billion, respectively, of the estimated fair value,
    or 93% and 88%, respectively, of the commercial mortgage-backed
    securities were rated Aaa/AAA by Moody s, S P, or
    Fitch. At December 31, 2008, the rating distribution of the
    Company s commercial mortgage-backed securities holdings
    was as follows: 93% Aaa, 4% Aa, 1% A, 1% Baa, and 1% Ba or
    below. At December 31, 2008, 84% of the holdings are in the
    2005 and prior vintage years. At December 31, 2008, the
    Company had no exposure to CMBX securities and its holdings of
    commercial real estate debt obligations securities was
    $121 million at estimated fair value. The weighted average
    credit enhancement of the Company s commercial
    mortgage-backed securities holdings at December 31, 2008
    was 26%. This credit enhancement percentage represents the
    current weighted average estimated percentage of outstanding
    capital structure subordinated to the Company s investment
    holding that is available to absorb losses before the security
    incurs the first dollar of loss of principal. The credit
    protection does not include any equity interest or property
    value in excess of outstanding debt.

The following table shows the Company s exposure to
    commercial mortgage-backed securities by credit quality and by
    vintage year:

Securities
    Lending   

The Company participates in securities lending programs whereby
    blocks of securities, which are included in fixed maturity
    securities, and short-term investments are loaned to third
    parties, primarily major brokerage firms

216

Table of Contents   

and commercial banks. The Company generally requires collateral
    equal to 102% of the current estimated fair value of the loaned
    securities to be obtained at the inception of a loan, and
    maintained at a level greater than or equal to 100% for the
    duration of the loan. During the extraordinary market events
    occurring in the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company, in limited
    instances, accepted collateral less than 102% at the inception
    of certain loans, but never less than 100%, of the estimated
    fair value of such loaned securities. These loans involved
    U.S. Government Treasury Bills which are considered to have
    limited variation in their estimated fair value during the term
    of the loan. Securities with a cost or amortized cost of
    $20.8 billion and $41.1 billion and an estimated fair
    value of $22.9 billion and $42.1 billion were on loan
    under the program at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. Securities loaned under such transactions may be
    sold or repledged by the transferee. The Company was liable for
    cash collateral under its control of $23.3 billion and
    $43.3 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. Of this $23.3 billion of cash collateral at
    December 31, 2008, $5.1 billion was on open terms,
    meaning that the related loaned security could be returned to
    the Company on the next business day requiring return of cash
    collateral and $14.7 billion and $3.5 billion,
    respectively were due within 30 days and 60 days. The
    estimated fair value of the securities related to the cash
    collateral on open at December 31, 2008 has been reduced to
    $5.0 billion from $15.8 billion as of
    November 30, 2008. Of the $5.0 billion of estimated
    fair value of the securities related to the cash collateral on
    open at December 31, 2008, $4.4 billion were
    U.S. Treasury and agency securities which, if put to the
    Company, can be immediately sold to satisfy the cash
    requirements. The remainder of the securities on loan are
    primarily U.S. Treasury and agency securities, and very
    liquid residential mortgage-backed securities. Within the
    U.S. Treasury securities on loan, they are primarily
    holdings of on-the-run U.S. Treasury securities, the most
    liquid U.S. Treasury securities available. If these high
    quality securities that are on loan are put back to the Company,
    the proceeds from immediately selling these securities can be
    used to satisfy the related cash requirements. The estimated
    fair value of the reinvestment portfolio acquired with the cash
    collateral was $19.5 billion at December 31, 2008, and
    consisted principally of fixed maturity securities (including
    residential mortgage-backed, asset-backed, U.S. corporate
    and foreign corporate securities). If the on loan securities or
    the reinvestment portfolio become less liquid, the Company has
    the liquidity resources of most of its general account available
    to meet any potential cash demand when securities are put back
    to the Company.

The following table represents, at December 31, 2008, when
    the Company may be obligated to return cash collateral received
    in connection with its securities lending program. Cash
    collateral is required to be returned when the related loaned
    security is returned to the Company.

Security collateral of $279 million and $40 million on
    deposit from counterparties in connection with the securities
    lending transactions at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively may not be sold or repledged and is not reflected
    in the consolidated financial statements.

Assets
    on Deposit, Held in Trust and Pledged as
    Collateral   

The Company had investment assets on deposit with regulatory
    agencies with an estimated fair value of $1.3 billion and
    $1.8 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively, consisting primarily of fixed maturity and equity
    securities. The Company also held in trust cash and securities,
    primarily fixed maturity and equity securities, with an
    estimated fair value of $9.3 billion and $5.9 billion
    at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, to satisfy
    collateral requirements. The Company has also pledged certain
    fixed maturity securities in support of the collateral financing
    arrangements described in Note 11 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements
        Liquidity and Capital
    Resources   The Company   Liquidity and
    Capital Uses   Collateral Financing Arrangements. 

The Company has pledged fixed maturity securities and mortgage
    loans in support of its debt and funding agreements with the
    FHLB of New York and the FHLB of Boston of $22.2 billion
    and $7.0 billion at December 31,

217

Table of Contents   

2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company has also pledged
    certain agricultural real estate mortgage loans in connection
    with funding agreements with the Federal Agricultural Mortgage
    Corporation with a carrying value of $2.9 billion at both
    December 31, 2008 and 2007. The Company has also pledged
    qualifying mortgage loans and securities in connection with
    collateralized borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank of New
    York s Term Auction Facility with an estimated fair value
    of $1.6 billion at December 31, 2008. The nature of
    these Federal Home Loan Bank, and Federal Agricultural Mortgage
    Corporation and Federal Reserve Bank of New York arrangements
    are described in Notes 7 and 10 of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Certain of the Company s invested assets are pledged as
    collateral for various derivative transactions as described in
       Composition of Investment Portfolio
    Results   Derivative Financial Instruments  
    Credit Risk.  Certain of the Company s trading
    securities are pledged to secure liabilities associated with
    short sale agreements in the trading securities portfolio as
    described in the following section.

Trading
    Securities   

The Company has trading securities portfolios to support
    investment strategies that involve the active and frequent
    purchase and sale of securities, the execution of short sale
    agreements and asset and liability matching strategies for
    certain insurance products. Trading securities and short sale
    agreement liabilities are recorded at estimated fair value with
    subsequent changes in estimated fair value recognized in net
    investment income.

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, trading securities at
    estimated fair value were $946 million and
    $779 million, respectively, and liabilities associated with
    the short sale agreements in the trading securities portfolio,
    which were included in other liabilities, were $57 million
    and $107 million, respectively. The Company had pledged
    $346 million and $407 million of its assets, at
    estimated fair value, primarily consisting of trading
    securities, as collateral to secure the liabilities associated
    with the short sale agreements in the trading securities
    portfolio at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Interest and dividends earned on trading securities in addition
    to the net realized and unrealized gains (losses) recognized on
    the trading securities and the related short sale agreement
    liabilities included within net investment income totaled
    ($193) million, $50 million and $71 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. Included within unrealized gains (losses) on such
    trading securities and short sale agreement liabilities are
    changes in estimated fair value of ($174) million,
    ($4) million and $26 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In 2008,
    unrealized losses recognized for trading securities, due to
    volatility in the equity and credit markets, were in excess of
    interest and dividends earned.

The trading securities measured at estimated fair value on a
    recurring basis and their corresponding fair value hierarchy,
    are summarized as follows:

218

Table of Contents   

A rollforward of the fair value measurements for trading
    securities measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis
    using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs for
    the year ended December 31, 2008 is as follows:

See    Summary of Critical Accounting
    Estimates   Investments  for further information
    on the estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts
    reported above.

Mortgage
    and Consumer Loans   

The Company s mortgage and consumer loans are principally
    collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential
    properties, as well as automobiles. Mortgage and consumer loans
    comprised 15.9% and 14.1% of the Company s total cash and
    invested assets at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. The carrying value of mortgage and consumer loans
    is stated at original cost net of repayments, amortization of
    premiums, accretion of discounts and valuation allowances,
    except for residential mortgage loans held-for-sale accounted
    for under the fair value option which are carried at estimated
    fair value, as determined on a recurring basis and certain
    commercial and residential mortgage loans carried at the lower
    of cost or estimated fair value, as determined on a nonrecurring
    basis. The following table shows the carrying value of the
    Company s mortgage and consumer loans by type at:

At December 31, 2008, mortgage loans held-for-sale include
    $1,975 million of residential mortgage loans held-for-sale
    carried under the fair value option. At December 31, 2008
    and 2007, mortgage loans held-for-sale also include
    $37 million and $5 million, respectively, of
    commercial and residential mortgage loans held-for-sale which
    are carried at the lower of amortized cost or estimated fair
    value.

At December 31, 2008, the Company held $220 million in
    mortgage loans which are carried at estimated fair value based
    on the value of the underlying collateral or independent broker
    quotations, if lower, of which $188 million relate to
    impaired mortgage loans held-for-investment and $32 million
    to certain mortgage loans held-for-sale. These impaired mortgage
    loans were recorded at estimated fair value and represent a
    nonrecurring fair value measurement. The estimated fair value is
    categorized as Level 3. Included within net investment
    gains (losses) for such impaired mortgage loans are net
    impairments of $79 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2008.

219

Table of Contents   

Commercial Mortgage Loans By Geographic Region and Property
    Type.   The Company diversifies its commercial
    mortgage loans by both geographic region and property type. The
    following table presents the distribution across geographic
    regions and property types for commercial mortgage loans
    held-for-investment at:

Restructured, Potentially Delinquent, Delinquent or Under
    Foreclosure.   The Company monitors its mortgage
    loan investments on an ongoing basis, including reviewing loans
    that are restructured, potentially delinquent, delinquent or
    under foreclosure. These loan classifications are consistent
    with those used in industry practice.

The Company defines restructured mortgage loans as loans in
    which the Company, for economic or legal reasons related to the
    debtor s financial difficulties, grants a concession to the
    debtor that it would not otherwise consider. The Company defines
    potentially delinquent loans as loans that, in management s
    opinion, have a high probability of becoming delinquent. The
    Company defines delinquent mortgage loans, consistent with
    industry practice, as loans in which two or more interest or
    principal payments are past due. The Company defines mortgage
    loans under foreclosure as loans in which foreclosure
    proceedings have formally commenced.

The Company reviews all mortgage loans on an ongoing basis.
    These reviews may include an analysis of the property financial
    statements and rent roll, lease rollover analysis, property
    inspections, market analysis and tenant creditworthiness.

The Company records valuation allowances for certain of the
    loans that it deems impaired. The Company s valuation
    allowances are established both on a loan specific basis for
    those loans where a property or market specific risk has been
    identified that could likely result in a future default, as well
    as for pools of loans with similar high risk characteristics
    where a property specific or market risk has not been
    identified. Loan specific valuation allowances are established
    for the excess carrying value of the mortgage loan over the
    present value of expected future cash

220

Table of Contents   

flows discounted at the loan s original effective interest
    rate, the value of the loan s collateral, or the
    loan s estimated fair value if the loan is being sold.
    Valuation allowances for pools of loans are established based on
    property types and loan to value risk factors. The Company
    records valuation allowances as investment losses. The Company
    records subsequent adjustments to allowances as investment gains
    (losses).

Recent economic events causing deteriorating market conditions,
    low levels of liquidity and credit spread widening have all
    adversely impacted the mortgage and consumer loan markets. As a
    result, commercial real estate, agricultural and residential
    loan market fundamentals have weakened. The Company expects
    continued pressure on these fundamentals, including but not
    limited to declining rent growth, increased vacancies, rising
    delinquencies and declining property values. These deteriorating
    factors have been considered in the Company s ongoing,
    systematic and comprehensive review of the mortgage and consumer
    loan portfolios, resulting in higher writedown amounts and
    valuation allowances for 2008.

The following table presents the amortized cost and valuation
    allowance for commercial mortgage loans held-for-investment
    distributed by loan classification at:

(1)  

Amortized cost is equal to carrying value before valuation
    allowances. 

The following table presents the changes in valuation allowances
    for commercial mortgage loans held-for-investment for the:

Agricultural Mortgage Loans.   The Company
    diversifies its agricultural mortgage loans held-for-investment
    by both geographic region and product type.

Of the $12.2 billion of agricultural mortgage loans
    outstanding at December 31, 2008, 56% were subject to rate
    resets prior to maturity. A substantial portion of these loans
    has been successfully renegotiated and remain outstanding to
    maturity. The process and policies for monitoring the
    agricultural mortgage loans and classifying them by performance
    status are generally the same as those for the commercial loans.

221

Table of Contents   

The following table presents the amortized cost and valuation
    allowances for agricultural mortgage loans held-for-investment
    distributed by loan classification at:

(1)  

Amortized cost is equal to carrying value before valuation
    allowances. 

The following table presents the changes in valuation allowances
    for agricultural mortgage loans held-for-investment for the:

Consumer Loans.   Consumer loans consist of
    residential mortgages and auto loans held-for-investment.

The following table presents the amortized cost and valuation
    allowances for consumer loans held-for-investment distributed by
    loan classification at:

(1)  

Amortized cost is equal to carrying value before valuation
    allowances. 

222

Table of Contents   

The following table presents the changes in valuation allowances
    for consumer loans held-for-investment for the:

Real
    Estate Holdings   

The Company s real estate holdings consist of commercial
    properties located primarily in the United States. At
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, the carrying value of the
    Company s real estate, real estate joint ventures and real
    estate held-for-sale was $7.6 billion and
    $6.8 billion, respectively, or 2.4% and 2.1%, respectively,
    of total cash and invested assets. The carrying value of real
    estate is stated at depreciated cost net of impairments and
    valuation allowances. The carrying value of real estate joint
    ventures is stated at the Company s equity in the real
    estate joint ventures net of impairments and valuation
    allowances.

The following table presents the carrying value of the
    Company s real estate holdings at:

The Company diversifies its real estate holdings by both
    geographic region and property type to reduce risk of
    concentration. The Company s real estate holdings are
    primarily located in the United States. At December 31,
    2008, 22%, 13%, 11% and 8% of the Company s real estate
    holdings were located in California, Florida, New York and
    Texas, respectively. Property type diversification is shown in
    the table below.

223

Table of Contents   

Real estate holdings were categorized as follows:

The Company s carrying value of real estate held-for-sale
    of $1 million and $39 million at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively, have been reduced by impairments of
    $1 million at both December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

The Company records real estate acquired upon foreclosure of
    commercial and agricultural mortgage loans at the lower of
    estimated fair value or the carrying value of the mortgage loan
    at the date of foreclosure.

Net investment income from real estate joint ventures and funds
    within the real estate and real estate joint venture caption
    represents distributions from investees accounted for under the
    cost method and equity in earnings from investees accounted for
    under the equity method. For the years ended December 31,
    2008, 2007 and 2006, net investment income from real estate and
    real estate joint ventures was $581 million,
    $950 million and $777 million, respectively. Net
    investment income from real estate and real estate joint
    ventures decreased by $369 million for the year ended 2008
    due to volatility in the real estate markets. Management
    anticipates that the significant volatility in the real estate
    markets will continue in 2009 which could continue to impact net
    investment income and the related yields on real estate and real
    estate joint ventures. For equity method real estate joint
    ventures and funds, the Company reports the equity in earnings
    based on the availability of financial statements and other
    periodic financial information that are substantially the same
    as financial statements. Accordingly, those financial statements
    are reviewed on a lag basis after the close of the joint
    ventures  or funds  financial reporting periods, and
    the Company records the equity in earnings, generally on a one
    reporting period lag. In addition, due to the lag in reporting
    of the joint ventures  and funds  results to the
    Company, volatility in the equity and credit markets experienced
    in late 2008, is expected to unfavorably impact net investment
    income in 2009, as those results are reported to the Company.

Other
    Limited Partnership Interests   

The carrying value of other limited partnership interests (which
    primarily represent ownership interests in pooled investment
    funds that principally make private equity investments in
    companies in the United States and overseas) was
    $6.0 billion and $6.2 billion at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively. Included within other limited
    partnership interests at December 31, 2008 and 2007 are
    $1.3 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively, of hedge
    funds. The Company uses the equity method of accounting for
    investments in limited partnership interests in which it has
    more than a minor interest, has influence over the
    partnership s operating and financial policies, but does
    not have a controlling interest and is not the primary
    beneficiary. The Company uses the cost method for minor interest
    investments and when it has virtually no influence over the
    partnership s operating and financial policies. For equity
    method limited partnership interests, the Company reports the
    equity in earnings based on the availability of financial
    statements and other periodic financial information that are
    substantially the same as financial statements. Accordingly,
    those financial statements are reviewed on a lag basis after the
    close of the partnerships  financial reporting periods, and
    the Company records the equity in earnings, generally on a one
    reporting period lag. In

224

Table of Contents   

addition, due to the lag in reporting of the partnerships 
    results to the Company, volatility in the equity and credit
    markets experienced in late 2008, is expected to unfavorably
    impact net investment income in 2009, as those results are
    reported to the Company. The Company s investments in other
    limited partnership interests represented 1.9% and 1.9% of cash
    and invested assets at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, net
    investment income (loss) from other limited partnership
    interests was ($170) million, $1,309 million and
    $945 million, respectively. Net investment income from
    other limited partnership interests, including hedge funds,
    decreased by $1,479 million for the year ended 2008, due to
    volatility in the equity and credit markets. Management
    anticipates that the significant volatility in the equity and
    credit markets will continue in 2009 which could continue to
    impact net investment income and the related yields on other
    limited partnership interests. In addition, due to the lag in
    reporting of the partnership results to the Company, volatility
    in the equity and credit markets incurred in late 2008, is
    expected to unfavorably impact net investment income in 2009, as
    those results are reported to the Company.

At December 31, 2008, the Company held $137 million in
    cost basis other limited partnership interests which were
    impaired during the year ended December 31, 2008 based on
    the underlying limited partnership financial statements.
    Consistent with equity securities, greater weight and
    consideration is given in the other limited partnership
    interests impairment review process, to the severity and
    duration of unrealized losses on such other limited partnership
    interests holdings. These other limited partnership interests
    were recorded at estimated fair value and represent a
    nonrecurring fair value measurement. The estimated fair value
    was categorized as Level 3. Included within net investment
    gains (losses) for such other limited partnerships are
    impairments of $105 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2008.

Other
    Invested Assets   

The following table presents the carrying value of the
    Company s other invested assets at:

See    Derivative Financial Instruments 
    regarding the freestanding derivatives with positive estimated
    fair values. Joint venture investments accounted for on the
    equity method and represent our investment in insurance
    underwriting joint ventures in Japan, Chile and China. Tax
    credit partnerships are established for the purpose of investing
    in low-income housing and other social causes, where the primary
    return on investment is in the form of tax credits, and which
    are accounted for under the equity method. Funding agreements
    represent arrangements where the Company has long-term interest
    bearing amounts on deposit with third parties and are generally
    stated at amortized cost. Funds withheld represent amounts
    contractually withheld by ceding companies in accordance with
    reinsurance agreements.

225

Table of Contents   

Leveraged
    Leases   

Investment in leveraged leases, included in other invested
    assets, consisted of the following:

The Company s deferred income tax liability related to
    leveraged leases was $1.2 billion and $1.0 billion at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The rental
    receivables set forth above are generally due in periodic
    installments. The payment periods range from one to
    15 years, but in certain circumstances are as long as
    30 years.

The components of net income from investment in leveraged leases
    are as follows:

Mortgage
    Servicing Rights   

The following table presents the changes in capitalized mortgage
    servicing rights for the year ended December 31, 2008:

Carrying Value 

(In millions) 

Fair value on December 31, 2007

$

Acquisition of mortgage servicing rights

350

Reduction due to loan payments

(10

)

Reduction due to sales

Changes in fair value due to:

Changes in valuation model inputs or assumptions

(149

)

Other changes in fair value

Fair value on December 31, 2008

$

191

The Company recognizes the rights to service residential
    mortgage loans as mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs ).
    MSRs are either acquired or are generated from the sale of
    originated residential mortgage loans where the servicing rights
    are retained by the Company. MSRs are carried at estimated fair
    value and changes in estimated fair value, primarily due to
    changes in valuation inputs and assumptions and to the
    collection of expected cash flows, are reported in other
    revenues in the period in which the change occurs. See also
    Notes 1 and 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for further information about the how the estimated
    fair value of mortgage servicing rights is determined and other
    related information.

226

Table of Contents   

Short-term
    Investments   

The carrying value of short-term investments, which include
    investments with remaining maturities of one year or less, but
    greater than three months, at the time of acquisition and are
    stated at amortized cost, which approximates estimated fair
    value, was $13.9 billion and $2.5 billion at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Derivative
    Financial Instruments   

Derivatives.   The Company uses a variety of
    derivatives, including swaps, forwards, futures and option
    contracts, to manage its various risks. Additionally, the
    Company uses derivatives to synthetically create investments as
    permitted by its insurance subsidiaries  Derivatives Use
    Plans approved by the applicable state insurance departments.

The following table presents the notional amount and current
    market or estimated fair value of derivative financial
    instruments, excluding embedded derivatives, held at:

Fair Value Hierarchy.   Derivatives measured at
    estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their
    corresponding fair value hierarchy, are summarized as follows:

The valuation of Level 3 derivatives involves the use of
    significant unobservable inputs and generally requires a higher
    degree of management judgment or estimation than the valuations
    of Level 1 and Level 2 derivatives. Although
    Level 3 inputs are based on assumptions deemed appropriate
    given the circumstances and are consistent with what other
    market participants would use when pricing such instruments, the
    use of different inputs or methodologies could have a material
    effect on the estimated fair value of Level 3 derivatives
    and could materially affect net income.

Derivatives categorized as Level 3 at December 31,
    2008 include: financial forwards including swap spread locks
    with maturities which extend beyond observable periods; interest
    rate lock commitments with certain

227

Table of Contents   

unobservable inputs, including pull-through rates; equity
    variance swaps with unobservable volatility inputs or that are
    priced via independent broker quotations; foreign currency swaps
    which are cancelable and priced through independent broker
    quotations; interest rate swaps with maturities which extend
    beyond the observable portion of the yield curve; credit default
    swaps based upon baskets of credits having unobservable credit
    correlations as well as credit default swaps with maturities
    which extend beyond the observable portion of the credit curves
    and credit default swaps priced through independent broker
    quotes; foreign currency forwards priced via independent broker
    quotations or with liquidity adjustments; equity options with
    unobservable volatility inputs; and interest rate caps and
    floors referencing unobservable yield curves
     and/or  which
    include liquidity and volatility adjustments.

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, 2.7% and 1.5% of the net
    derivative estimated fair value was priced via independent
    broker quotations.

A rollforward of the fair value measurements for derivatives
    measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using
    significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs for the year
    ended December 31, 2008 is as follows:

See    Summary of Critical Accounting
    Estimates   Derivative Financial Instruments  for
    further information on the estimates and assumptions that affect
    the amounts reported above.

Credit Risk.   The Company may be exposed to
    credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by
    counterparties to derivative financial instruments. Generally,
    the current credit exposure of the Company s derivative
    contracts is limited to the net positive estimated fair value of
    derivative contracts at the reporting date after taking into
    consideration the existence of netting agreements and any
    collateral received pursuant to credit support annexes.

The Company manages its credit risk related to over-the-counter
    derivatives by entering into transactions with creditworthy
    counterparties, maintaining collateral arrangements and through
    the use of master agreements that provide for a single net
    payment to be made by one counterparty to another at each due
    date and upon termination. Because exchange-traded futures are
    effected through regulated exchanges, and positions are marked
    to market on a daily basis, the Company has minimal exposure to
    credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by
    counterparties to such derivative instruments.

The Company enters into various collateral arrangements, which
    require both the pledging and accepting of collateral in
    connection with its derivative instruments. At December 31,
    2008 and 2007, the Company was obligated to return cash
    collateral under its control of $7,758 million and
    $833 million, respectively. This unrestricted cash
    collateral is included in cash and cash equivalents or in
    short-term investments and the obligation to return it is
    included in payables for collateral under securities loaned and
    other transactions. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the
    Company had also accepted collateral consisting of various
    securities with an estimated fair value of $1,249 million
    and $678 million, respectively, which are held in separate
    custodial accounts. The Company is permitted by contract to sell
    or repledge this collateral, but at December 31, 2008 and
    2007, none of the collateral had been sold or repledged.

228

Table of Contents   

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company provided
    securities collateral for various arrangements in connection
    with derivative instruments of $776 million and
    $162 million, respectively, which is included in fixed
    maturity securities. The counterparties are permitted by
    contract to sell or repledge this collateral. In addition, the
    Company has exchange-traded futures, which require the pledging
    of collateral. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company
    pledged securities collateral for exchange-traded futures of
    $282 million and $167 million, respectively, which is
    included in fixed maturity securities. The counterparties are
    permitted by contract to sell or repledge this collateral. At
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company provided cash
    collateral for exchange-traded futures of $686 million and
    $102 million, respectively, which is included in premiums
    and other receivables.

In connection with synthetically created investment transactions
    and credit default swaps held in relation to the trading
    portfolio, the Company writes credit default swaps for which it
    receives a premium to insure credit risk. If a credit event, as
    defined by the contract, occurs generally the contract will
    require the Company to pay the counterparty the specified swap
    notional amount in exchange for the delivery of par quantities
    of the referenced credit obligation. The Company s maximum
    amount at risk, assuming the value of all referenced credit
    obligations is zero, was $1,875 million at
    December 31, 2008. However, the Company believes that any
    actual future losses will be significantly lower than this
    amount. Additionally, the Company can terminate these contracts
    at any time through cash settlement with the counterparty at an
    amount equal to the then current estimated fair value of the
    credit default swaps. At December 31, 2008, the Company
    would have paid $37 million to terminate all of these
    contracts.

Embedded Derivatives.   The embedded derivatives
    measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their
    corresponding fair value hierarchy, are summarized as follows:

A rollforward of the fair value measurements for embedded
    derivatives measured at estimated fair value on a recurring
    basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs
    for the year ended December 31, 2008 is as follows:

Effective January 1, 2008, upon adoption of SFAS 157,
    the valuation of the Company s guaranteed minimum benefit
    riders includes an adjustment for the Company s own credit.
    For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company
    recognized net investment gains of $2,994 million in
    connection with this adjustment.

See    Summary of Critical Accounting
    Estimates   Embedded Derivatives  for further
    information on the estimates and assumptions that affect the
    amounts reported above.

229

Table of Contents   

Variable
    Interest Entities   

The following table presents the total assets and total
    liabilities relating to VIEs for which the Company has concluded
    that it is the primary beneficiary and which are consolidated in
    the Company s financial statements at December 31,
    2008. Generally, creditors or beneficial interest holders of
    VIEs where the Company is the primary beneficiary have no
    recourse to the general credit of the Company.

(1)  

These assets are reflected at estimated fair value, and consist
    of fixed maturity securities available-for-sale of
    $2,137 million and cash and cash equivalents of
    $224 million, of which $60 million is cash
     held-in-trust. 
    Included within fixed maturity securities available-for-sale are
    $948 million of U.S. corporate securities,
    $561 million of residential mortgage-backed securities,
    $409 million of asset-backed securities, $98 million
    of commercial mortgage-backed securities, $95 million of
    foreign corporate securities, $21 million of state and
    political subdivision securities and $5 million of foreign
    government securities. 

(2)  

Real estate joint ventures include partnerships and other
    ventures which engage in the acquisition, development,
    management and disposal of real estate investments. Upon
    consolidation, the assets and liabilities are reflected at the
    VIE s carrying amounts. The assets consist of
    $20 million of real estate and real estate joint ventures
    held-for-investment, $5 million of cash and cash
    equivalents and $1 million of other assets. The liabilities
    of $15 million are included within other liabilities. 

(3)  

Other limited partnership interests include partnerships
    established for the purpose of investing in public and private
    debt and equity securities. Upon consolidation, the assets and
    liabilities are reflected at the VIE s carrying amounts.
    The assets of $20 million are included within other limited
    partnership interests, while the liabilities of $3 million
    are included within other liabilities. 

(4)  

Other invested assets include tax-credit partnerships and other
    investments established for the purpose of investing in
    low-income housing and other social causes, where the primary
    return on investment is in the form of tax credits. Upon
    consolidation, the assets and liabilities are reflected at the
    VIE s carrying amounts. The assets of $10 million are
    included within other invested assets. The liabilities consist
    of $2 million of long-term debt and $1 million of
    other liabilities. 

The following table presents the carrying amount and maximum
    exposure to loss relating to VIEs for which the Company holds
    significant variable interests but is not the primary
    beneficiary and which have not been consolidated at
    December 31, 2008:

230

Table of Contents   

(1)  

See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for further discussion of the Company s
    significant accounting policies with regards to the carrying
    amounts of these investments. 

(2)  

The maximum exposure to loss relating to the fixed maturity
    securities available-for-sale and equity securities
    available-for-sale is equal to the carrying amounts or carrying
    amounts of retained interests. The maximum exposure to loss
    relating to the real estate joint ventures and other limited
    partnership interests is equal to the carrying amounts plus any
    unfunded commitments. Such a maximum loss would be expected to
    occur only upon bankruptcy of the issuer or investee. For
    certain of its investments in other invested assets, the
    Company s return is in the form of tax credits which are
    guaranteed by a creditworthy third party. For such investments,
    the maximum exposure to loss is equal to the carrying amounts
    plus any unfunded commitments, reduced by amounts guaranteed by
    third parties. 

As discussed in Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements, the Company makes commitments to fund
    partnership investments in the normal course of business.
    Excluding these commitments, MetLife did not provide financial
    or other support to investees designated as VIEs during the
    years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.

Separate
    Accounts   

The Company had $120.8 billion and $160.1 billion held
    in its separate accounts, for which the Company does not bear
    investment risk, at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. The Company manages each separate account s
    assets in accordance with the prescribed investment policy that
    applies to that specific separate account. The Company
    establishes separate accounts on a single client and
    multi-client commingled basis in compliance with insurance laws.
    Effective with the adoption of
     SOP 03-1, 
     Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain
    Nontraditional Long-Duration Contracts and for Separate
    Accounts , on January 1, 2004, the Company reported
    separately, as assets and liabilities, investments held in
    separate accounts and liabilities of the separate accounts if:

such separate accounts are legally recognized;

assets supporting the contract liabilities are legally insulated
    from the Company s general account liabilities;

investments are directed by the contractholder; and

all investment performance, net of contract fees and
    assessments, is passed through to the contractholder.

The Company reports separate account assets meeting such
    criteria at their estimated fair value. Investment performance
    (including net investment income, net investment gains (losses)
    and changes in unrealized gains (losses)) and the corresponding
    amounts credited to contractholders of such separate accounts
    are offset within the same line in the consolidated statements
    of income.

The Company s revenues reflect fees charged to the separate
    accounts, including mortality charges, risk charges, policy
    administration fees, investment management fees and surrender
    charges. Separate accounts not meeting the above criteria are
    combined on a
     line-by-line 
    basis with the Company s general account assets,
    liabilities, revenues and expenses.

The separate accounts measured at estimated fair value on a
    recurring basis and their corresponding fair value hierarchy,
    are summarized as follows:

231

Table of Contents   

Policyholder
    Liabilities  

The Company establishes, and carries as liabilities, actuarially
    determined amounts that are calculated to meet policy
    obligations when a policy matures or is surrendered, an insured
    dies or becomes disabled or upon the occurrence of other covered
    events, or to provide for future annuity payments. Amounts for
    actuarial liabilities are computed and reported in the
    consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP. For
    more details on Policyholder Liabilities see
       Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Critical Accounting Estimates.  Also see  
    Note 1 and Note 7 of the Notes  to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of
    uncertainty associated with the determination of actuarial
    liabilities, the Company cannot precisely determine the amounts
    that will ultimately be paid with respect to these actuarial
    liabilities, and the ultimate amounts may vary from the
    estimated amounts, particularly when payments may not occur
    until well into the future.

However, we believe our actuarial liabilities for future
    benefits are adequate to cover the ultimate benefits required to
    be paid to policyholders. We periodically review our estimates
    of actuarial liabilities for future benefits and compare them
    with our actual experience. We revise estimates, to the extent
    permitted or required under GAAP, if we determine that future
    expected experience differs from assumptions used in the
    development of actuarial liabilities.

The Company has experienced, and will likely in the future
    experience, catastrophe losses and possibly acts of terrorism,
    and turbulent financial markets that may have an adverse impact
    on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
    Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including
    pandemics, hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes,
    explosions, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing
    water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and man-made events such
    as terrorist attacks. Due to their nature, we cannot predict the
    incidence, timing, severity or amount of losses from
    catastrophes and acts of terrorism, but we make broad use of
    catastrophic and non-catastrophic reinsurance to manage risk
    from these perils.

Future
    Policy Benefits   

The Company establishes liabilities for amounts payable under
    insurance policies. Generally, amounts are payable over an
    extended period of time and related liabilities are calculated
    as the present value of expected future benefits to be paid,
    reduced by the present value of expected future net premiums.
    Such liabilities are established

232

Table of Contents   

based on methods and underlying assumptions in accordance with
    GAAP and applicable actuarial standards. Principal assumptions
    used in the establishment of liabilities for future policy
    benefits include mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal,
    retirement, investment returns, inflation, expenses and other
    contingent events as appropriate to the respective product type.
    These assumptions are established at the time the policy is
    issued and are intended to estimate the experience for the
    period the policy benefits are payable. Utilizing these
    assumptions, liabilities are established on a block of business
    basis. If experience is less favorable than assumed and future
    losses are projected under loss recognition testing, then
    additional liabilities may be required, resulting in a charge to
    policyholder benefits and claims.

Group Life.   Future policy benefits are
    comprised mainly of liabilities for disabled lives under
    disability waiver of premium policy provisions, liabilities for
    survivor income benefit insurance, and premium stabilization and
    other contingency liabilities held under participating group
    life insurance contracts.

Retirement   Savings.   Liabilities
    are primarily related to retirement and structured settlement
    annuities. There is no interest rate crediting flexibility on
    these liabilities. A sustained low interest rate environment
    could negatively impact earnings as a result. The Company has
    various derivative positions, primarily interest rate floors and
    interest rate swaps, to mitigate the risks associated with such
    a scenario.

Non-Medical Health   Other.   Future
    policy benefits are comprised mainly of provisions for
    liabilities for disabled lives under group long-term disability,
    individual disability, and long-term care policies, active life
    liabilities under long-term care and individual disability
    policies. The Company entered into various derivative positions,
    primarily interest rate swaps and swaptions, to mitigate the
    risk that investment of premiums received and reinvestment of
    maturing assets over the life of the policy will be at rates
    below those assumed in the original pricing of these contracts.

Traditional Life.   Future policy benefits
    mostly relate to participating whole life policies and
    endowments (including the closed block). The remainder support
    liabilities for term life policies. The Company has often
    reinsured a portion of the mortality risk on new individual life
    insurance policies. The reinsurance programs are routinely
    evaluated and this may result in increases or decreases to
    existing coverage.

Variable   Universal Life.   Future policy
    benefits are comprised mainly of reserves for mortality and
     SOP 03-1 
    liabilities related to universal life secondary guarantees. In
    order to manage risk, the Company has often reinsured a portion
    of the mortality risk on new individual life insurance policies.
    The reinsurance programs are routinely evaluated and this may
    result in increases or decreases to existing coverage.

Annuities.   Future policy benefits are
    comprised mainly of reserves for life-contingent income
    annuities, supplemental contracts with and without life
    contingencies, reserves for Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits
    ( GMDBs ) included in certain annuity contracts, and a
    certain portion of guaranteed living benefits.
     See  Variable 
    Annuity Guarantees. 

International.   Future policy benefits are held
    primarily for immediate annuities in Latin America, as well as
    for total return pass-thru provisions included in certain
    universal life and savings products in Latin America, and
    traditional life, endowment and annuity contracts sold in
    various countries in the Asia Pacific region. They also include
     SOP 03-1 
    liabilities for variable annuity guarantees of minimum death
    benefits, and longevity guarantees sold in the Asia Pacific
    region. Finally, in the European region, they also include
    unearned premium liabilities established for credit insurance
    contracts covering death, disability and involuntary loss of
    employment, as well as a small amount of traditional life and
    endowment contracts. Factors impacting these liabilities include
    sustained periods of lower yields than rates established at
    issue, lower than expected asset reinvestment rates, asset
    default and more rapid improvement of mortality levels than
    anticipated for life contingent immediate annuities. The Company
    mitigates its risks by implementing an asset/liability matching
    policy and through the development of periodic experience
    studies. See    Variable Annuity Guarantees. 

Auto   Home.   Future policy benefits
    include liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses for
    property and casualty insurance and represent the amount
    estimated for claims that have been reported but not settled and
    claims incurred but not reported. Liabilities for unpaid claims
    are estimated based upon assumptions such as rates of claim
    frequencies, levels of severities, inflation, judicial trends,
    legislative changes or regulatory decisions. Assumptions are
    based upon the Company s historical experience and analyses
    of historical development

233

Table of Contents   

patterns of the relationship of loss adjustment expenses to
    losses for each line of business, and consider the effects of
    current developments, anticipated trends and risk management
    programs, reduced for anticipated salvage and subrogation.

Estimates for the liabilities for unpaid claims and claim
    expenses are reset as actuarial indications change and these
    changes in the liability are reflected in the current results of
    operation as either favorable or unfavorable development of
    prior year losses.

Corporate   Other.   Future policy benefits
    primarily include liabilities for quota-share reinsurance
    agreements for certain long-term care and workers 
    compensation business written by MICC, a subsidiary of the
    Company, prior to the acquisition of MICC. These run-off
    businesses have been included within Corporate   Other
    since the acquisition of MICC.

Policyholder
    Account Balances   

Policyholder account balances are generally equal to the account
    value, which includes accrued interest credited, but exclude the
    impact of any applicable surrender charge that may be incurred
    upon surrender.

Group Life.   Policyholder account balances are
    held for death benefit disbursement retained asset accounts,
    universal life policies, the fixed account of variable life
    insurance policies, and specialized life insurance products for
    benefit programs. Policyholder account balances are credited
    interest at a rate set by the Company, which are influenced by
    current market rates. The majority of the policyholder account
    balances have a guaranteed minimum credited rate between 1.5%
    and 4.0%. A sustained low interest rate environment could
    negatively impact earnings as a result of the minimum credited
    rate guarantees. The Company has various derivative positions,
    primarily interest rate floors, to partially mitigate the risks
    associated with such a scenario.

Retirement   Savings.   Policyholder
    account balances are comprised of funding agreements, GICs and
    Global GICs ( GGICs ). Interest crediting rates vary
    by type of contract, and can be fixed or variable. Variable
    interest crediting rates are generally tied to an external
    index, most commonly
     1-month  or
     3-month 
    LIBOR. MetLife is exposed to interest rate risks, and foreign
    exchange risk when guaranteeing payment of interest and return
    of principal at the contractual maturity date. The Company may
    invest in floating rate assets, or enter into floating rate
    swaps, also tied to external indices, as well as caps to
    mitigate the impact of changes in market interest rates. The
    Company also mitigates its risks by implementing an
    asset/liability matching policy and seeks to hedge all foreign
    currency risk through the use of foreign currency hedges,
    including cross currency swaps.

Variable   Universal
    Life.   Policyholder account balances are held for
    general account universal life policies, and the fixed account
    of variable life insurance policies. Policyholder account
    balances are credited interest at a rate set by the Company, and
    are influenced by current market rates. These contracts
    generally have a guaranteed minimum credited rate. The majority
    of the policyholder account balances have a minimum credited
    rate between 3% and 5%.

Annuities.   Policyholder account balances are
    held for fixed deferred annuities and the fixed account portion
    of variable annuities, for certain income annuities, and for
    certain portions of guaranteed benefits. Policyholder account
    balances are credited interest at a rate set by the Company,
    which are influenced by current market rates, and generally have
    a guaranteed minimum credited rate between 1.5% and 4.0%. See
       Variable Annuity Guarantees. 

International.   Policyholder account balances
    are held largely for fixed income retirement and savings plans
    in Latin America and to a lesser degree, amounts for separate
    account type funds in certain countries in the Latin America,
    Europe, and Asia Pacific regions that do not meet the US GAAP
    definition of separate accounts. Also included are certain
    liabilities for retirement and savings products sold in certain
    countries in the Asia Pacific region that generally are sold
    with minimum credited rate guarantees. Liabilities for
    guarantees on certain variable annuities in the Asia Pacific
    region are established in accordance with SFAS 133 and are
    also included within policyholder account balances. These
    liabilities are generally impacted by sustained periods of low
    interest rates, where there are interest rate guarantees. The
    Company mitigates its risks by implementing an asset/liability
    matching policy and by hedging its variable annuity guarantees.
    See    Variable Annuity Guarantees. 

234

Table of Contents   

Variable
    Annuity Guarantees   

The Company issues certain variable annuity products with
    guaranteed minimum benefit that provide the policyholder a
    minimum return based on their initial deposit (i.e., the benefit
    base) less withdrawals. In some cases the benefit base may be
    increased by additional deposits, bonus amounts, accruals or
    market value resets. These Guarantees are accounted for under
     SOP 03-1 
    or as embedded derivatives under SFAS 133 depending on how
    and when the benefit is paid. Specifically, a guarantee is
    accounted for under SFAS 133 if a guarantee is paid without
    requiring (i) the occurrence of specific insurable event or
    (ii) the policyholder to annuitize. Alternatively, a
    guarantee is accounted for under
     SOP 03-1 
    if a guarantee is paid only upon either (i) the occurrence
    of a specific insurable event or (ii) upon annuitization.
    In certain cases, a guarantee may have elements of both
    SFAS 133 and
     SOP 03-1 
    and in such cases the guarantee is accounted for under a split
    of the two models.

The net amount at risk ( NAR ) for guarantees can
    change significantly during periods of sizable and sustained
    shifts in equity market performance, increased equity
    volatility, or changes in interest rates. The NAR disclosed in
    Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements, represents management s estimate of the current
    value of the benefits under these guarantees if they were all
    exercised simultaneously as of December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. However, there are features, such as deferral
    periods and benefits requiring annuitization or death, that
    limit the amount of benefits that will be payable in the near
    future. None of the GMIB guarantees are eligible for a
    guaranteed annuitization prior to 2011.

Guarantees, including portions thereof, accounted for as
    embedded derivatives under SFAS 133, are recorded at
    estimated fair value and included in policyholder account
    balances. Guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives
    include GMAB, the non life-contingent portion of GMWB and the
    portion of certain GMIB that do not require annuitization. For
    more detail on the determination of estimated fair value, see
    Note 24 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

The table below contains the carrying value for guarantees
    included in policyholder account balances:

Included in net investment gains (losses) for the year ended
    December 31, 2008 were losses of $2,677 million in
    embedded derivatives related to the change in estimated fair
    value of the above guarantees. Effective January 1, 2008,
    the carrying amount of guarantees accounted for at estimated
    fair value includes an adjustment for the Company s own
    credit. In connection with this adjustment, gains of
    $2,994 million are included in the loss of
    $2,677 million in net investment gains (losses).

The estimated fair value of guarantees accounted for as embedded
    derivatives can change significantly during periods of sizable
    and sustained shifts in equity market performance, equity
    volatility, interest rates or foreign exchange rates.
    Additionally, because the estimated fair value for guarantees
    accounted for at estimated fair value includes an adjustment for
    the Company s own credit, a decrease in the Company s
    credit spreads could cause the value of these liabilities to
    increase. Conversely, a widening of the Company s credit
    spreads could cause the value of these liabilities to decrease.
    The Company uses derivative instruments to mitigate the
    liability exposure, risk of loss and the volatility of net
    income associated with these liabilities. The derivative
    instruments used are primarily equity and treasury futures,
    equity options and variance swaps, and interest rate swaps. The
    change in valuation arising from the Company s own credit
    is not hedged.

235

Table of Contents   

The table below contains the carrying value of the derivatives
    hedging guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives:

Included in net investment gains (losses) for the year ended
    December 31, 2008 were gains of $3,440 million related
    to the change in estimated fair value of the above derivatives.

Guarantees, including portions thereof, accounted for under
     SOP 03-1 
    have liabilities established that are included in future policy
    benefits. Guarantees accounted for in this manner include GMDBs,
    the life-contingent portion of certain GMWB, and the portion of
    GMIB that require annuitization. These liabilities are accrued
    over the life of the contract in proportion to actual and future
    expected policy assessments based on the level of guaranteed
    minimum benefits generated using multiple scenarios of separate
    account returns. The scenarios use best estimate assumptions
    consistent with those used to amortize deferred acquisition
    costs. When current estimates of future benefits exceed those
    previously projected or when current estimates of future
    assessments are lower than those previously projected, the
     SOP 03-1 
    reserves will increase, resulting in a current period charge to
    net income. The opposite result occurs when the current
    estimates of future benefits are lower than that previously
    projected or when current estimates of future assessments exceed
    those previously projected. At each reporting period, the
    Company updates the actual amount of business remaining
    in-force, which impacts expected future assessments and the
    projection of estimated future benefits resulting in a current
    period charge or increase to earnings.

The table below contains the carrying value for guarantees
    included in Future Policy Benefits:

Included in policyholder benefits and claims for the year ended
    December 31, 2008 is a charge of $502 million related
    to the change in liabilities for the above guarantees.

The carrying amount of guarantees accounted for as
     SOP 03-1 
    liabilities can change significantly during periods of sizable
    and sustained shifts in equity market performance, increased
    equity volatility, or changes in interest rates. The Company
    uses reinsurance in combination with derivative instruments to
    mitigate the liability exposure, risk of loss and the volatility
    of net income associated with these liabilities. Derivative
    instruments used are primarily equity and treasury futures.

Included in policyholder benefits and claims associated with the
    hedging of the guarantees in future policy benefits for the year
    ended December 31, 2008 were gains of $182 million
    related to reinsurance treaties containing embedded derivatives
    carried at estimated fair value and gains of $331 million
    related to freestanding derivatives.

236

Table of Contents   

While the Company believes that the hedging strategies employed
    for guarantees included in both policyholder account balances
    and in future policy benefits, as well as other management
    actions, have mitigated the risks related to these benefits, the
    Company remains liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event
    that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or
    unwilling to pay. Certain of the Company s reinsurance
    agreements and derivative positions are collateralized and
    derivatives positions are subject to master netting agreements,
    both of which, significantly reduces the exposure to
    counterparty risk. In addition, the Company is subject to the
    risk that hedging and other management procedures prove
    ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior or
    mortality, combined with adverse market events, produces
    economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management
    techniques employed. Lastly, because the valuation of the
    guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives includes an
    adjustment for the Company s own credit that is not hedged,
    changes in the Company s own credit may result in
    significant volatility in net income.

Other
    Policyholder Funds   

Other policyholder funds include policy and contract claims,
    unearned revenue liabilities, premiums received in advance,
    policyholder dividends due and unpaid, and policyholder
    dividends left on deposit.

The liability for policy and contract claims generally relates
    to incurred but not reported death, disability, long-term care
    ( LTC ) and dental claims as well as claims that have
    been reported but not yet settled. The liability for these
    claims is based on the Company s estimated ultimate cost of
    settling all claims. The Company derives estimates for the
    development of incurred but not reported claims principally from
    actuarial analyses of historical patterns of claims and claims
    development for each line of business. The methods used to
    determine these estimates are continually reviewed. Adjustments
    resulting from this continuous review process and differences
    between estimates and payments for claims are recognized in
    policyholder benefits and claims expense in the period in which
    the estimates are changed or payments are made.

The unearned revenue liability relates to universal life-type
    and investment-type products and represents policy charges for
    services to be provided in future periods. The charges are
    deferred as unearned revenue and amortized using the
    product s estimated gross profits and margins, similar to
    deferred acquisition costs. Such amortization is recorded in
    universal life and investment-type product policy fees.

Also included in other policyholder funds are policyholder
    dividends due and unpaid on participating policies and
    policyholder dividends left on deposit. Such liabilities are
    presented at amounts contractually due to policyholders.

Policyholder
    Dividends Payable   

Policyholder dividends payable consists of liabilities related
    to dividends payable in the following calendar year on
    participating policies.

Policyholder
    Dividend Obligation   

For more detail on Policyholder Dividend Obligation  
    see Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Item 7A.      

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

Risk
    Management  

The Company must effectively manage, measure and monitor the
    market risk associated with its assets and liabilities. It has
    developed an integrated process for managing risk, which it
    conducts through its Enterprise Risk Management Department,
    Asset/Liability Management Unit, Treasury Department and
    Investment Department along with the management of the business
    segments. The Company has established and implemented
    comprehensive policies and procedures at both the corporate and
    business segment level to minimize the effects of potential
    market volatility.

237

Table of Contents   

The Company regularly analyzes its exposure to interest rate,
    equity market price and foreign currency exchange rate risks. As
    a result of that analysis, the Company has determined that the
    estimated fair value of certain assets and liabilities are
    materially exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign
    currency exchange rates and changes in the equity markets.

Enterprise Risk Management.   MetLife has
    established several financial and non-financial senior
    management committees as part of its risk management process.
    These committees manage capital and risk positions, approve
    asset/liability management strategies and establish appropriate
    corporate business standards.

MetLife also has a separate Enterprise Risk Management
    Department, which is responsible for risk throughout MetLife and
    reports to MetLife s Chief Risk Officer. The Enterprise
    Risk Management Department s primary responsibilities
    consist of:

implementing a Board of Directors approved corporate risk
    framework, which outlines the Company s approach for
    managing risk on an enterprise-wide basis;

developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring,
    monitoring and controlling those risks identified in the
    corporate risk framework;

establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels;

deploying capital on an economic capital basis; and

reporting on a periodic basis to the Finance and Risk Policy
    Committee of the Company s Board of Directors, and with
    respect to credit risk to the Investment Committee of the
    Company s Board of Directors and various financial and
    non-financial senior management committees.

MetLife does not expect to make any material changes to its risk
    management practices in 2009.

Asset/Liability Management(ALM).   The Company
    actively manages its assets using an approach that balances
    quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity,
    concentration and investment return. The goals of the investment
    process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted
    investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring
    that the assets and liabilities are reasonably managed on a cash
    flow and duration basis. The asset/liability management process
    is the shared responsibility of the Financial Risk Management
    and Asset/Liability Management Unit, Enterprise Risk Management,
    the Portfolio Management Unit, and the senior members of the
    operating business segments and is governed by the ALM
    Committee. The ALM Committee s duties include reviewing and
    approving target portfolios, establishing investment guidelines
    and limits and providing oversight of the asset/liability
    management process on a periodic basis. The directives of the
    ALM Committee are carried out and monitored through ALM Working
    Groups which are set up to manage by product type.

MetLife establishes target asset portfolios for each major
    insurance product, which represent the investment strategies
    used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels
    of risk. These strategies are monitored through regular review
    of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve
    sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration
    and credit quality by the ALM Working Groups. MetLife does not
    expect to make any material changes to its asset/liability
    management practices in 2009.

Market
    Risk Exposures  

The Company has exposure to market risk through its insurance
    operations and investment activities. For purposes of this
    disclosure,  market risk  is defined as the risk of
    loss resulting from changes in interest rates, equity prices and
    foreign currency exchange rates.

Interest Rates.   The Company s exposure to
    interest rate changes results most significantly from its
    holdings of fixed maturity securities, as well as its interest
    rate sensitive liabilities. The fixed maturity securities
    include U.S. and foreign government bonds, securities
    issued by government agencies, corporate bonds and
    mortgage-backed securities, all of which are mainly exposed to
    changes in medium- and long-term interest rates. The interest
    rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure
    include debt, policyholder account balances related to certain
    investment type contracts, and net embedded derivatives within
    liability host contracts which have the same type of

238

Table of Contents   

interest rate exposure (medium- and long-term interest rates) as
    fixed maturity securities. The Company employs product design,
    pricing and asset/liability management strategies to reduce the
    adverse effects of interest rate movements. Product design and
    pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or
    restrictions on withdrawals in some products and the ability to
    reset credited rates for certain products. Asset/liability
    management strategies include the use of derivatives and
    duration mismatch limits. See  Risk Factors  
    Changes in Market Interest Rates May Significantly Affect Our
    Profitability. 

Foreign Currency Exchange Rates.   The
    Company s exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency
    exchange rates against the U.S. dollar results from its
    holdings in
     non-U.S. dollar 
    denominated fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage and
    consumer loans, and certain liabilities, as well as through its
    investments in foreign subsidiaries. The principal currencies
    that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in the
    Company s investment portfolios are the Euro, the Canadian
    dollar and the British pound. The principal currencies that
    create foreign currency exchange risk in the Company s
    liabilities are the British pound, the Euro, the Canadian dollar
    and the Swiss franc. Selectively, the Company uses
    U.S. dollar assets to support certain long duration foreign
    currency liabilities. Through its investments in foreign
    subsidiaries and joint ventures, the Company is primarily
    exposed to the Mexican peso, the Japanese yen, the South Korean
    won, the Canadian dollar, the British pound, the Chilean peso,
    the Australian dollar, the Argentine peso and the Hong Kong
    dollar. In addition to hedging with foreign currency swaps,
    forwards and options, in some countries, local surplus is held
    entirely or in part in U.S. dollar assets which further
    minimizes exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation
    risk. The Company has matched much of its foreign currency
    liabilities in its foreign subsidiaries with their respective
    foreign currency assets, thereby reducing its risk to foreign
    currency exchange rate fluctuation.

Equity Prices.   The Company has exposure to
    equity prices through certain liabilities that involve long-term
    guarantees on equity performance such as variable annuities with
    guaranteed minimum benefit riders, certain policyholder account
    balances along with investments in equity securities. We manage
    this risk on an integrated basis with other risks through our
    asset/liability management strategies including the dynamic
    hedging of certain variable annuity riders. The Company also
    manages equity price risk incurred in its investment portfolio
    through the use of derivatives. Equity exposures associated with
    other limited partnership interests are excluded from this
    section as they are not considered financial instruments under
    generally accepted accounting principles.

Management
    of Market Risk Exposures  

The Company uses a variety of strategies to manage interest
    rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity price risk,
    including the use of derivative instruments.

Interest Rate Risk Management.   To manage
    interest rate risk, the Company analyzes interest rate risk
    using various models, including multi-scenario cash flow
    projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities
    and their supporting investments, including derivative
    instruments. These projections involve evaluating the potential
    gain or loss on most of the Company s in-force business
    under various increasing and decreasing interest rate
    environments. The New York State Insurance Department
    regulations require that MetLife perform some of these analyses
    annually as part of MetLife s review of the sufficiency of
    its regulatory reserves. For several of its legal entities, the
    Company maintains segmented operating and surplus asset
    portfolios for the purpose of asset/liability management and the
    allocation of investment income to product lines. For each
    segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the GAAP
    liabilities less the DAC asset and any non-invested assets
    allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess swept
    to the surplus segment. The operating segments may reflect
    differences in legal entity, statutory line of business and any
    product market characteristic which may drive a distinct
    investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or
    credit quality of the invested assets. Certain smaller entities
    make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the
    investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of
    liabilities in those entities. The Company measures relative
    sensitivities of the value of its assets and liabilities to
    changes in key assumptions utilizing Company models. These
    models reflect specific product characteristics and include
    assumptions based on current and anticipated experience
    regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. In
    addition, these models include asset cash flow projections
    reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal
    payments, bond calls, mortgage prepayments and defaults.

239

Table of Contents   

Common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are
    also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and
    liability values to changes in interest rates. In computing the
    duration of liabilities, consideration is given to all
    policyholder guarantees and to how the Company intends to set
    indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or
    dividends. Each asset portfolio has a duration target based on
    the liability duration and the investment objectives of that
    portfolio. Where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity
    of available assets, as is the case with certain retirement and
    non-medical health products, the Company may support such
    liabilities with equity investments, derivatives or curve
    mismatch strategies.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk
    Management.   Foreign currency exchange rate risk
    is assumed primarily in three ways: investments in foreign
    subsidiaries, purchases of foreign currency denominated
    investments in the investment portfolio and the sale of certain
    insurance products.

The Company s Treasury Department is responsible for
    managing the exposure to investments in foreign subsidiaries.
    Limits to exposures are established and monitored by the
    Treasury Department and managed by the Investment Department.

The Investment Department is responsible for managing the
    exposure to foreign currency investments. Exposure limits to
    unhedged foreign currency investments are incorporated into the
    standing authorizations granted to management by the Board of
    Directors and are reported to the Board of Directors on a
    periodic basis.

The lines of business are responsible for establishing limits
    and managing any foreign exchange rate exposure caused by the
    sale or issuance of insurance products.

MetLife uses foreign currency swaps and forwards to hedge its
    foreign currency denominated fixed income investments, its
    equity exposure in subsidiaries and its foreign currency
    exposures caused by the sale of insurance products.

Equity Price Risk Management.   Equity price
    risk incurred through the issuance of variable annuities is
    managed by the Company s Asset/Liability Management Unit in
    partnership with the Investment Department. Equity price risk is
    also incurred through its investment in equity securities and is
    managed by its Investment Department. MetLife uses derivatives
    to hedge its equity exposure both in certain liability
    guarantees such as variable annuities with guaranteed minimum
    benefit riders and equity securities. These derivatives include
    exchange-traded equity futures, equity index options contracts
    and equity variance swaps. The Company s derivative hedges
    performed effectively through the extreme movements in the
    equity markets during the latter part of 2008. The Company also
    employs reinsurance to manage these exposures.

Hedging Activities.   MetLife uses derivative
    contracts primarily to hedge a wide range of risks including
    interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, and equity risk.
    Derivative hedges are designed to reduce risk on an economic
    basis while considering their impact on accounting results and
    GAAP and Statutory capital. The construction of the
    Company s derivative hedge programs vary depending on the
    type of risk being hedged. Some hedge programs are asset or
    liability specific while others are portfolio hedges that reduce
    risk related to a group of liabilities or assets. The
    Company s use of derivatives by major hedge programs is as
    follows:

Risks Related to Living Benefit Riders    The Company
    uses a wide range of derivative contracts to hedge the risk
    associated with variable annuity living benefit riders. These
    hedges include equity and interest rate futures, interest rate
    swaps, currency futures/forwards, equity indexed options and
    interest rate option contracts and equity variance swaps.

Minimum Interest Rate Guarantees   For certain Company
    liability contracts, the Company provides the contractholder a
    guaranteed minimum interest rate. These contracts include
    certain fixed annuities and other insurance liabilities. The
    Company purchases interest rate floors to reduce risk associated
    with these liability guarantees.

Reinvestment Risk in Long Duration Liability
    Contracts   Derivatives are used to hedge interest
    rate risk related to certain long duration liability contracts,
    such as long term care. Hedges include zero coupon interest rate
    swaps and swaptions.

240

Table of Contents   

Foreign Currency Risk   The Company uses currency
    swaps and forwards to hedge foreign currency risk. These hedges
    primarily swap foreign denominated bonds or equity exposures to
    US dollars.

General ALM Hedging Strategies   In the ordinary
    course of managing the Company s asset/liability risks, the
    Company uses interest rate futures, interest rate swaps,
    interest rate caps, interest rate floors and inflation swaps.
    These hedges are designed to reduce interest rate risk or
    inflation risk related to the existing assets or liabilities or
    related to expected future cash flows.

Risk
    Measurement: Sensitivity Analysis  

The Company measures market risk related to its market sensitive
    assets and liabilities based on changes in interest rates,
    equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates utilizing a
    sensitivity analysis. This analysis estimates the potential
    changes in estimated fair value based on a hypothetical 10%
    change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity market
    prices and foreign currency exchange rates. The Company believes
    that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates
    and prices is reasonably possible in the near-term. In
    performing the analysis summarized below, the Company used
    market rates at December 31, 2008. The sensitivity analysis
    separately calculates each of the Company s market risk
    exposures (interest rate, equity price and foreign currency
    exchange rate) relating to its trading and non trading assets
    and liabilities. The Company modeled the impact of changes in
    market rates and prices on the estimated fair values of its
    market sensitive assets and liabilities as follows:

the net present values of its interest rate sensitive exposures
    resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest
    rates;

the U.S. dollar equivalent estimated fair values of the
    Company s foreign currency exposures due to a 10% change
    (increase or decrease) in foreign currency exchange
    rates; and

the estimated fair value of its equity positions due to a 10%
    change (increase or decrease) in equity market prices.

The sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed
    as predictive of the Company s future financial
    performance. The Company cannot ensure that its actual losses in
    any particular year will not exceed the amounts indicated in the
    table below. Limitations related to this sensitivity analysis
    include:

the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and
    parameters established in creating the related sensitivity
    analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgages;

the derivatives that qualify as hedges, the impact on reported
    earnings may be materially different from the change in market
    values;

the analysis excludes other significant real estate holdings and
    liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts; and

the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities
    remains unchanged throughout the year.

Accordingly, the Company uses such models as tools and not as
    substitutes for the experience and judgment of its management.
    Based on its analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or
    decrease) in market rates and prices, MetLife has determined
    that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the
    estimated fair value of certain assets and liabilities from
    interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity
    exposures.

241

Table of Contents   

The table below illustrates the potential loss in estimated fair
    value for each market risk exposure of the Company s market
    sensitive assets and liabilities at December 31, 2008:

242

Table of Contents   

Sensitivity Analysis; Interest Rates.   The
    table below provides additional detail regarding the potential
    loss in fair value of the Company s trading and non-trading
    interest sensitive financial instruments at December 31,
    2008 by type of asset or liability:

243

Table of Contents   

(1)  

Represents only those investments accounted for using the cost
    method. 

(2)  

Embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance
    sheet in the same caption as the host contract. 

(3)  

Separate account assets and liabilities which are interest rate
    sensitive are not included herein as any interest rate risk is
    borne by the holder of the separate account. 

This quantitative measure of risk has decreased by
    $489 million, or approximately 9%, to $4,699 million
    at December 31, 2008 from $5,188 million at
    December 31, 2007. From December 31, 2007 to
    December 31, 2008 there was a decline in interest rates
    across both the swaps and treasury curves which resulted in a
    decrease in the interest rate risk by $2,860 million. In
    addition, the interest rate risk declined by $755 million
    due to a reduction in the asset base and by $414 million
    due to the completion of the Company s split-off of its 52%
    ownership in RGA. A change in the method of estimating the fair
    value of liabilities in connection with the adoption of
    SFAS 157 further reduced the interest rate risk by
    $254 million. Partially offsetting the decline was an
    increase in the interest rate risk from the use of derivatives
    employed by the Company by $2,151 million, primarily
    related to financial futures and interest rate swaps. Changes in
    the duration of the Company s portfolio also attributed
    $1,312 million to partially offset the decline in interest
    rate risk. The inclusion of certain reinsurance recoverables
    within premiums and other receivables also increased the
    interest rate risk by $216 million. The remainder of the
    fluctuation is attributable to numerous immaterial items.

In addition to the analysis above, as part of its asset
    liability management program, the Company also performs an
    analysis of the sensitivity to changes in interest rates,
    including both insurance liabilities and financial instruments.
    At December 31, 2008, a hypothetical instantaneous 10%
    decrease in interest rates applied to the Company s
    liabilities, insurance and associated asset portfolios would
    reduce the estimated fair value of equity by $962 million.

244

Table of Contents   

Sensitivity Analysis; Foreign Currency Exchange
    Rates.   The table below provides additional detail
    regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of the
    Company s portfolio due to a 10% change in foreign currency
    exchange rates at December 31, 2008 by type of asset or
    liability:

(1)  

Estimated fair value presented in the table above represents the
    estimated fair value of all financial instruments within this
    financial statement caption not necessarily those solely subject
    to foreign exchange risk. 

Foreign currency exchange rate risk decreased by
    $185 million, or 26%, to $526 million at
    December 31, 2008 from $711 million at
    December 31, 2007. From December 31, 2007 to
    December 31, 2008 a decline in the exchange rate of the
    Euro, British pound, the Mexican and Chilean pesos versus the
    U.S. Dollar resulted in the decline of the foreign currency
    exchange risk on fixed maturity securities by $446 million.
    Partially offsetting the decline in

245

Table of Contents   

foreign currency exchange risk was the exclusion of certain
    items due to the completion of the Company s split-off of
    its 52% ownership in RGA which accounted for $296 million
    reduction to the foreign currency risk. In addition, the foreign
    currency exchange risk associated with long-term debt declined
    by $80 million due the weakening of the British pound
    against the U.S. dollar. The remainder of the fluctuation
    is attributable to numerous immaterial items.

Sensitivity Analysis; Equity Prices.   The table
    below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in
    estimated fair value of the Company s portfolio due to a
    10% change in equity at December 31, 2008 by type of asset
    or liability:

(1)  

Estimated fair value presented in the table above represents the
    estimated fair value of all financial instruments within this
    financial statement caption not necessarily those solely subject
    to equity price risk. 

(2)  

Embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance
    sheet in the same caption as the host contract. 

Equity price risk increased by $80 million, or 83%, to
    $176 million at December 31, 2008 from
    $96 million at December 31, 2007. The increase was
    primarily attributed to the increased use of equity derivatives
    employed by the Company to hedge its equity exposures,
    particularly the use of financial futures and options. An
    increase in liabilities, particularly variable annuities with
    guaranteed minimum benefit riders, during 2008 partially offset
    the increase in equity price risk.

246

Table of Contents   

Item 8.      

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data   

Index to
    Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules  

247

Table of Contents   

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

MetLife, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated
    statements of income, stockholders  equity, and cash flows
    for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2008. Our audits also included the financial
    statement schedules listed in the Index to Consolidated
    Financial Statements and Schedules. These consolidated financial
    statements and financial statement schedules are the
    responsibility of the Company s management. Our
    responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated
    financial statements and financial statement schedules based on
    our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial
    statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
    examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
    disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit
    also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
    significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
    the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that
    our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present
    fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
    MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008 and
    2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows
    for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles
    generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our
    opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in
    relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as
    a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the
    information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 1, the Company changed its method of
    accounting for certain assets and liabilities to a fair value
    measurement approach as required by accounting guidance adopted
    on January 1, 2008, and changed its method of accounting
    for deferred acquisition costs and for income taxes as required
    by accounting guidance adopted on January 1, 2007.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2008, based on the criteria established in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission, and our report, dated February 26, 2009,
    expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company s internal
    control over financial reporting.

/s/  DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP

DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP

New York, New York

February 26, 2009

F-1

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 
     
     Consolidated Balance Sheets 
     December 31, 2008 and 2007 
     
    (In millions, except share and per share data)  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

F-2

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 
     
     Consolidated Statements of Income 
     For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 
     
    (In millions, except per share data)  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

F-3

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 
     
     Consolidated Statements of Stockholders 
    Equity 
     For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 
     
    (In millions)  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

F-4

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 
     
     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
     For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 
     
    (In millions)  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

F-5

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 
     
    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   (Continued) 
    For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 
     
    (In millions)  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

F-6

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements   

1.    

Business,
    Basis of Presentation, and Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies  

Business   

MetLife  or the  Company  refers to
    MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999 (the
     Holding Company ), and its subsidiaries, including
    Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ). MetLife
    is a leading provider of individual insurance, employee benefits
    and financial services with operations throughout the United
    States and the Latin America, Europe, and Asia Pacific regions.
    Through its subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife offers life
    insurance, annuities, auto and home insurance, retail banking
    and other financial services to individuals, as well as group
    insurance and retirement   savings products and
    services to corporations and other institutions.

Basis
    of Presentation   

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the
    accounts of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries as well as
    partnerships and joint ventures in which the Company has
    control. Closed block assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses
    are combined on a
     line-by-line 
    basis with the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses
    outside the closed block based on the nature of the particular
    item. See Note 9. Intercompany accounts and transactions
    have been eliminated.

In addition the Company has invested in certain structured
    transactions that are variable interest entities
    ( VIEs ) under Financial Accounting Standards Board
    ( FASB ) Interpretation ( FIN )
    No. 46(r),  Consolidation of Variable Interest
    Entities   An Interpretation of Accounting Research
    Bulletin No. 51  ( FIN 46(r) ).
    These structured transactions include reinsurance trusts,
    asset-backed securitizations, trust preferred securities, joint
    ventures, limited partnerships and limited liability companies.
    The Company is required to consolidate those VIEs for which it
    is deemed to be the primary beneficiary. The Company reconsiders
    whether it is the primary beneficiary for investments designated
    as VIEs on a quarterly basis.

The Company uses the equity method of accounting for investments
    in equity securities in which it has more than a 20% interest
    and for real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership
    interests in which it has more than a minor equity interest or
    more than a minor influence over the joint venture s or
    partnership s operations, but does not have a controlling
    interest and is not the primary beneficiary. The Company uses
    the cost method of accounting for investments in real estate
    joint ventures and other limited partnership interests in which
    it has a minor equity investment and virtually no influence over
    the joint venture s or the partnership s operations.

Minority interest related to consolidated entities included in
    other liabilities was $251 million and $272 million at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. There was also
    minority interest of $1.5 billion included in liabilities
    of subsidiaries held-for-sale at December 31, 2007.

Certain amounts in the prior year periods  consolidated
    financial statements have been reclassified to conform with the
    2008 presentation. Such reclassifications include
    $61 million and $47 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, relating to the
    effect of change in foreign currency exchange rates on cash
    balances. These amounts were reclassified from cash flows from
    operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash
    flows for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. See
    also Note 23 for reclassifications related to discontinued
    operations.

Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies and Critical Accounting
    Estimates   

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America ( GAAP ) requires management to adopt
    accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that
    affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial
    statements. The most critical estimates include those used in
    determining:

(i) 

the estimated fair value of investments in the absence of quoted
    market values;

F-7

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(ii) 

investment impairments;

(iii) 

the recognition of income on certain investment entities;

(iv) 

the application of the consolidation rules to certain
    investments;

(v) 

the existence and estimated fair value of embedded derivatives
    requiring bifurcation;

(vi) 

the estimated fair value of and accounting for derivatives;

(vii) 

the capitalization and amortization of deferred policy
    acquisition costs ( DAC ) and the establishment and
    amortization of value of business acquired ( VOBA 

(viii) 

the measurement of goodwill and related impairment, if any;

(ix) 

the liability for future policyholder benefits;

(x) 

accounting for income taxes and the valuation of deferred tax
    assets;

(xi) 

accounting for reinsurance transactions;

(xii) 

accounting for employee benefit plans; and

(xiii) 

the liability for litigation and regulatory matters.

A description of such critical estimates is incorporated within
    the discussion of the related accounting policies which follow.
    The application of purchase accounting requires the use of
    estimation techniques in determining the fair values of assets
    acquired and liabilities assumed   the most
    significant of which relate to the aforementioned critical
    estimates. In applying these policies, management makes
    subjective and complex judgments that frequently require
    estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Many of
    these policies, estimates and related judgments are common in
    the insurance and financial services industries; others are
    specific to the Company s businesses and operations. Actual
    results could differ from these estimates.

Fair
    Value  

As described below, certain assets and liabilities are measured
    at estimated fair value on the Company s consolidated
    balance sheets. In addition, these footnotes to the consolidated
    financial statements include disclosures of estimated fair
    values. Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS )
    No. 157, Fair Value Measurements
    ( SFAS 157 ). SFAS 157 defines fair value as
    the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
    transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most
    advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly
    transaction between market participants on the measurement date.
    In many cases, the exit price and the transaction (or entry)
    price will be the same at initial recognition. However, in
    certain cases, the transaction price may not represent fair
    value. Under SFAS 157, fair value of a liability is based
    on the amount that would be paid to transfer a liability to a
    third party with the same credit standing. SFAS 157
    requires that fair value be a market-based measurement in which
    the fair value is determined based on a hypothetical transaction
    at the measurement date, considered from the perspective of a
    market participant. When quoted prices are not used to determine
    fair value, SFAS 157 requires consideration of three broad
    valuation techniques: (i) the market approach,
    (ii) the income approach, and (iii) the cost approach.
    The approaches are not new, but SFAS 157 requires that
    entities determine the most appropriate valuation technique to
    use, given what is being measured and the availability of
    sufficient inputs. SFAS 157 prioritizes the inputs to fair
    valuation techniques and allows for the use of unobservable
    inputs to the extent that observable inputs are not available.
    The Company has categorized its assets and liabilities measured
    at estimated fair value into a three-level hierarchy, based on
    the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation
    technique. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority
    to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or
    liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to
    unobservable inputs (Level 3). An asset

F-8

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

or liability s classification within the fair value
    hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to
    its valuation. SFAS 157 defines the input levels as follows:

Level 1 

Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets
    or liabilities. The Company defines active markets based on
    average trading volume for equity securities. The size of the
    bid/ask spread is used as an indicator of market activity for
    fixed maturity securities.

Level 2 

Quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are
    observable either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs
    include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities other
    than quoted prices in Level 1; quoted prices in markets
    that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can
    be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market
    data for substantially the full term of the assets or
    liabilities.

Level 3 

Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market
    activity and are significant to the estimated fair value of the
    assets or liabilities. Unobservable inputs reflect the reporting
    entity s own assumptions about the assumptions that market
    participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.
    Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial
    instruments whose values are determined using pricing models,
    discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as
    well as instruments for which the determination of estimated
    fair value requires significant management judgment or
    estimation.

The measurement and disclosures under SFAS 157 in the
    accompanying financial statements and footnotes exclude certain
    items such as nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities
    initially measured at estimated fair value in a business
    combination, reporting units measured at estimated fair value in
    the first step of a goodwill impairment test and
    indefinite-lived intangible assets measured at estimated fair
    value for impairment assessment. The effective date for these
    items was deferred to January 1, 2009.

Prior to adoption of SFAS 157, estimated fair value was
    determined based solely upon the perspective of the reporting
    entity. Therefore, methodologies used to determine the estimated
    fair value of certain financial instruments prior to
    January 1, 2008, while being deemed appropriate under
    existing accounting guidance, may not have produced an exit
    value as defined in SFAS 157.

Investments  

The Company s principal investments are in fixed maturity
    and equity securities, trading securities, mortgage and consumer
    loans, policy loans, real estate, real estate joint ventures and
    other limited partnership interests, short-term investments, and
    other invested assets. The accounting policies related to each
    are as follows:

Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities.   The
    Company s fixed maturity and equity securities are
    classified as available-for-sale, except for trading securities,
    and are reported at their estimated fair value.

Unrealized investment gains and losses on these securities are
    recorded as a separate component of other comprehensive income
    (loss), net of policyholder related amounts and deferred income
    taxes. All security transactions are recorded on a trade date
    basis. Investment gains and losses on sales of securities are
    determined on a specific identification basis.

Interest income on fixed maturity securities is recorded when
    earned using an effective yield method giving effect to
    amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts. Dividends
    on equity securities are recorded when declared. These dividends
    and interest income are recorded in net investment income.

Included within fixed maturity securities are loan-backed
    securities including mortgage-backed and asset-backed
    securities. Amortization of the premium or discount from the
    purchase of these securities considers the estimated timing and
    amount of prepayments of the underlying loans. Actual prepayment
    experience is periodically reviewed and effective yields are
    recalculated when differences arise between the prepayments
    originally anticipated and the actual prepayments received and
    currently anticipated. Prepayment

F-9

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

assumptions for single class and multi-class mortgage-backed and
    asset-backed securities are estimated by management using inputs
    obtained from third party specialists, including broker-dealers,
    and based on management s knowledge of the current market.
    For credit-sensitive mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities
    and certain prepayment-sensitive securities, the effective yield
    is recalculated on a prospective basis. For all other
    mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, the effective yield
    is recalculated on a retrospective basis.

The cost or amortized cost of fixed maturity and equity
    securities is adjusted for impairments in value deemed to be
    other-than-temporary in the period in which the determination is
    made. These impairments are included within net investment gains
    (losses) and the cost basis of the fixed maturity and equity
    securities is reduced accordingly. The Company does not change
    the revised cost basis for subsequent recoveries in value.

The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on
    management s
     case-by-case 
    evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in
    estimated fair value. The Company s review of its fixed
    maturity and equity securities for impairments includes an
    analysis of the total gross unrealized losses by three
    categories of securities: (i) securities where the
    estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or
    amortized cost by less than 20%; (ii) securities where the
    estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or
    amortized cost by 20% or more for less than six months; and
    (iii) securities where the estimated fair value had
    declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or
    more for six months or greater. An extended and severe
    unrealized loss position on a fixed maturity security may not
    have any impact on the ability of the issuer to service all
    scheduled interest and principal payments and the Company s
    evaluation of recoverability of all contractual cash flows, as
    well as the Company s ability and intent to hold the
    security, including holding the security until the earlier of a
    recovery in value, or until maturity. In contrast, for certain
    equity securities, greater weight and consideration are given by
    the Company to a decline in market value and the likelihood such
    market value decline will recover. See also Note 3.

Additionally, management considers a wide range of factors about
    the security issuer and uses its best judgment in evaluating the
    cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security
    and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent
    in management s evaluation of the security are assumptions
    and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future
    earnings potential. Considerations used by the Company in the
    impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to:
    (i) the length of time and the extent to which the market
    value has been below cost or amortized cost; (ii) the
    potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is
    experiencing significant financial difficulties; (iii) the
    potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or
    sub-sector; (iv) the potential for impairments in certain
    economically depressed geographic locations; (v) the
    potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series
    of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss
    or has exhausted natural resources; (vi) the Company s
    ability and intent to hold the security for a period of time
    sufficient to allow for the recovery of its value to an amount
    equal to or greater than cost or amortized cost (See also
    Note 3); (vii) unfavorable changes in forecasted cash
    flows on mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities; and
    (viii) other subjective factors, including concentrations
    and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies.

In periods subsequent to the recognition of an
    other-than-temporary impairment on a debt security, the Company
    accounts for the impaired security as if it had been purchased
    on the measurement date of the impairment. Accordingly, the
    discount (or reduced premium) based on the new cost basis is
    accreted into net investment income over the remaining term of
    the debt security in a prospective manner based on the amount
    and timing of estimated future cash flows.

The Company purchases and receives beneficial interests in
    special purpose entities ( SPEs ), which enhance the
    Company s total return on its investment portfolio
    principally by providing equity-based returns on debt
    securities. These investments are generally made through
    structured notes and similar instruments (collectively,
     Structured Investment Transactions ). The Company has
    not guaranteed the performance, liquidity or obligations of the
    SPEs and its exposure to loss is limited to its carrying value
    of the beneficial

F-10

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

interests in the SPEs. The Company does not consolidate such
    SPEs as it has determined it is not the primary beneficiary.
    These Structured Investment Transactions are included in fixed
    maturity securities and their income is generally recognized
    using the retrospective interest method. Impairments of these
    investments are included in net investment gains (losses).

Trading Securities.   The Company s trading
    securities portfolio, principally consisting of fixed maturity
    and equity securities, supports investment strategies that
    involve the active and frequent purchase and sale of securities
    and the execution of short sale agreements, and supports asset
    and liability matching strategies for certain insurance
    products. Trading securities and short sale agreement
    liabilities are recorded at estimated fair value with subsequent
    changes in estimated fair value recognized in net investment
    income. Related dividends and investment income are also
    included in net investment income.

Securities Lending.   Securities loaned
    transactions, whereby blocks of securities, which are included
    in fixed maturity and equity securities, are loaned to third
    parties, are treated as financing arrangements and the
    associated liability is recorded at the amount of cash received.
    The Company generally obtains collateral in an amount equal to
    102% of the estimated fair value of the securities loaned. The
    Company monitors the estimated fair value of the securities
    loaned on a daily basis with additional collateral obtained as
    necessary. Substantially all of the Company s securities
    loaned transactions are with large brokerage firms and
    commercial banks. Income and expenses associated with securities
    loaned transactions are reported as investment income and
    investment expense, respectively, within net investment income.

Mortgage and Consumer Loans.   Mortgage and
    consumer loans held-for-investment are stated at unpaid
    principal balance, adjusted for any unamortized premium or
    discount, deferred fees or expenses, net of valuation
    allowances. Interest income is accrued on the principal amount
    of the loan based on the loan s contractual interest rate.
    Amortization of premiums and discounts is recorded using the
    effective yield method. Interest income, amortization of
    premiums and discounts, and prepayment fees are reported in net
    investment income. Loans are considered to be impaired when it
    is probable that, based upon current information and events, the
    Company will be unable to collect all amounts due under the
    contractual terms of the loan agreement. Based on the facts and
    circumstances of the individual loans being impaired, valuation
    allowances are established for the excess carrying value of the
    loan over either (i) the present value of expected future
    cash flows discounted at the loan s original effective
    interest rate, (ii) the estimated fair value of the
    loan s underlying collateral if the loan is in the process
    of foreclosure or otherwise collateral dependent, or
    (iii) the loan s estimated fair value. The Company
    also establishes allowances for loan losses when a loss
    contingency exists for pools of loans with similar
    characteristics, such as mortgage loans based on similar
    property types or loan to value risk factors. A loss contingency
    exists when the likelihood that a future event will occur is
    probable based on past events. Interest income earned on
    impaired loans is accrued on the principal amount of the loan
    based on the loan s contractual interest rate. However,
    interest ceases to be accrued for loans on which interest is
    generally more than 60 days past due
     and/or  when
    the collection of interest is not considered probable. Cash
    receipts on such impaired loans are recorded as a reduction of
    the recorded investment. Gains and losses from the sale of loans
    and changes in valuation allowances are reported in net
    investment gains (losses).

Mortgage loans held-for-sale primarily include residential
    mortgages which are originated with the intent to sell and for
    which the fair value option was elected. These loans are stated
    at estimated fair value with subsequent changes in estimated
    fair value recognized in other revenue. Certain other mortgage
    loans previously designated as held-for-investment have been
    designated as held-for-sale to reflect a change in the
    Company s intention as it relates to holding such loans. At
    the time of transfer, such loans are recorded at the lower of
    amortized cost or estimated fair value less expected disposition
    costs determined on an individual loan basis. Amortized cost is
    determined in the same manner as for mortgage loans
    held-for-investment described above. The amount by which
    amortized cost exceeds estimated fair value less expected
    disposition costs is accounted for as a valuation allowance.
    Changes in such valuation allowance are recognized in net
    investment gains (losses).

F-11

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Policy Loans.   Policy loans are stated at
    unpaid principal balances. Interest income on such loans is
    recorded as earned using the contractually agreed upon interest
    rate. Generally, interest is capitalized on the policy s
    anniversary date.

Real Estate.   Real estate held-for-investment,
    including related improvements, is stated at cost less
    accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided on a
    straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset
    (typically 20 to 55 years). Rental income is recognized on
    a straight-line basis over the term of the respective leases.
    The Company classifies a property as held-for-sale if it commits
    to a plan to sell a property within one year and actively
    markets the property in its current condition for a price that
    is reasonable in comparison to its estimated fair value. The
    Company classifies the results of operations and the gain or
    loss on sale of a property that either has been disposed of or
    classified as held-for-sale as discontinued operations, if the
    ongoing operations of the property will be eliminated from the
    ongoing operations of the Company and if the Company will not
    have any significant continuing involvement in the operations of
    the property after the sale. Real estate held-for-sale is stated
    at the lower of depreciated cost or estimated fair value less
    expected disposition costs. Real estate is not depreciated while
    it is classified as held-for-sale. The Company periodically
    reviews its properties held-for-investment for impairment and
    tests properties for recoverability whenever events or changes
    in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may
    not be recoverable and the carrying value of the property
    exceeds its estimated fair value. Properties whose carrying
    values are greater than their undiscounted cash flows are
    written down to their estimated fair value, with the impairment
    loss included in net investment gains (losses). Impairment
    losses are based upon the estimated fair value of real estate,
    which is generally computed using the present value of expected
    future cash flows from the real estate discounted at a rate
    commensurate with the underlying risks. Real estate acquired
    upon foreclosure of commercial and agricultural mortgage loans
    is recorded at the lower of estimated fair value or the carrying
    value of the mortgage loan at the date of foreclosure.

Real Estate Joint Ventures and Other Limited Partnership
    Interests.   The Company uses the equity method of
    accounting for investments in real estate joint ventures and
    other limited partnership interests consisting of leveraged
    buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds in
    which it has more than a minor equity interest or more than a
    minor influence over the joint ventures or partnership s
    operations, but does not have a controlling interest and is not
    the primary beneficiary. The Company uses the cost method of
    accounting for investments in real estate joint ventures and
    other limited partnership interests in which it has a minor
    equity investment and virtually no influence over the joint
    ventures or the partnership s operations. The Company
    reports the distributions from real estate joint ventures and
    other limited partnership interests accounted for under the cost
    method and equity in earnings from real estate joint ventures
    and other limited partnership interests accounted for under the
    equity method in net investment income. In addition to the
    investees performing regular evaluations for the impairment of
    underlying investments, the Company routinely evaluates its
    investments in real estate joint ventures and other limited
    partnerships for impairments. The Company considers its cost
    method investments for other-than-temporary impairment when the
    carrying value of real estate joint ventures and other limited
    partnership interests exceeds the net asset value. The Company
    takes into consideration the severity and duration of this
    excess when deciding if the cost method investment is
    other-than-temporarily impaired. For equity method investees,
    the Company considers financial and other information provided
    by the investee, other known information and inherent risks in
    the underlying investments, as well as future capital
    commitments, in determining whether an impairment has occurred.
    When an other-than-temporary impairment is deemed to have
    occurred, the Company records a realized capital loss within net
    investment gains (losses) to record the investment at its
    estimated fair value.

Short-term Investments.   Short-term investments
    include investments with remaining maturities of one year or
    less, but greater than three months, at the time of acquisition
    and are stated at amortized cost, which approximates estimated
    fair value, or stated at estimated fair value, if available.

F-12

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Other Invested Assets.   Other invested assets
    consist principally of freestanding derivatives with positive
    estimated fair values, leveraged leases, joint venture
    investments, tax credit partnerships, funding agreements,
    mortgage servicing rights, and funds withheld at interest.

Freestanding derivatives with positive estimated fair values are
    more fully described in the derivatives accounting policy which
    follows.

Leveraged leases are recorded net of non-recourse debt. The
    Company participates in lease transactions which are diversified
    by industry, asset type and geographic area. The Company
    recognizes income on the leveraged leases by applying the
    leveraged lease s estimated rate of return to the net
    investment in the lease. The Company regularly reviews residual
    values and impairs them to expected values as needed.

Joint venture investments represent the Company s
    investments in entities that engage in insurance underwriting
    activities and are accounted for on the equity method. Tax
    credit partnerships are established for the purpose of investing
    in low-income housing and other social causes, where the primary
    return on investment is in the form of tax credits and are also
    accounted for on equity method. The Company reports the equity
    in earnings of joint venture investments and tax credit
    partnerships in net investment income.

Funding agreements represent arrangements where the Company has
    long-term interest bearing amounts on deposit with third parties
    and are generally stated at amortized cost.

Mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs ) are measured at
    estimated fair value and are either acquired or are generated
    from the sale of originated residential mortgage loans where the
    servicing rights are retained by the Company. Changes in
    estimated fair value of MSRs are reported in other revenues in
    the period in which the change occurs.

Funds withheld represent amounts contractually withheld by
    ceding companies in accordance with reinsurance agreements. The
    Company records a funds withheld receivable rather than the
    underlying investments. The Company recognizes interest on funds
    withheld at rates defined by the terms of the agreement which
    may be contractually specified or directly related to the
    investment portfolio and records it in net investment income.

Estimates and Uncertainties.   The
    Company s investments are exposed to four primary sources
    of risk: credit, interest rate, liquidity risk, and market
    valuation. The financial statement risks, stemming from such
    investment risks, are those associated with the determination of
    estimated fair values, the diminished ability to sell certain
    investments in times of strained market conditions, the
    recognition of impairments, the recognition of income on certain
    investments, and the potential consolidation of VIEs. The use of
    different methodologies, assumptions and inputs relating to
    these financial statement risks may have a material effect on
    the amounts presented within the consolidated financial
    statements.

When available, the estimated fair value of the Company s
    fixed maturity and equity securities are based on quoted prices
    in active markets that are readily and regularly obtainable.
    Generally, these are the most liquid of the Company s
    securities holdings and valuation of these securities does not
    involve management judgment.

When quoted prices in active markets are not available, the
    determination of estimated fair value is based on market
    standard valuation methodologies. The market standard valuation
    methodologies utilized include: discounted cash flow
    methodologies, matrix pricing or other similar techniques. The
    assumptions and inputs in applying these market standard
    valuation methodologies include, but are not limited to:
    interest rates, credit standing of the issuer or counterparty,
    industry sector of the issuer, coupon rate, call provisions,
    sinking fund requirements, maturity, estimated duration and
    management s assumptions regarding liquidity and estimated
    future cash flows. Accordingly, the estimated fair values are
    based on available market information and management s
    judgments about financial instruments.

F-13

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The significant inputs to the market standard valuation
    methodologies for certain types of securities with reasonable
    levels of price transparency are inputs that are observable in
    the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by
    observable market data. Such observable inputs include
    benchmarking prices for similar assets in active, liquid
    markets, quoted prices in markets that are not active and
    observable yields and spreads in the market.

When observable inputs are not available, the market standard
    valuation methodologies for determining the estimated fair value
    of certain types of securities that trade infrequently, and
    therefore have little or no price transparency, rely on inputs
    that are significant to the estimated fair value that are not
    observable in the market or cannot be derived principally from
    or corroborated by observable market data. These unobservable
    inputs can be based in large part on management judgment or
    estimation, and cannot be supported by reference to market
    activity. Even though unobservable, these inputs are based on
    assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances and
    consistent with what other market participants would use when
    pricing such securities.

The estimated fair value of residential mortgage loans
    held-for-sale are determined based on observable pricing of
    residential mortgage loans held-for-sale with similar
    characteristics, or observable pricing for securities backed by
    similar types of loans, adjusted to convert the securities
    prices to loan prices. Generally, quoted market prices are not
    available. When observable pricing for similar loans or
    securities that are backed by similar loans are not available,
    the estimated fair values of residential mortgage loans
    held-for-sale are determined using independent broker
    quotations, which is intended to approximate the amounts that
    would be received from third parties. Certain other mortgages
    have also been designated as held-for-sale which are recorded at
    the lower of amortized cost or estimated fair value less
    expected disposition costs determined on an individual loan
    basis. For these loans, estimated fair value is determined using
    independent broker quotations or, when the loan is in
    foreclosure or otherwise determined to be collateral dependent,
    the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral estimated
    using internal models.

The estimated fair value of MSRs is principally determined
    through the use of internal discounted cash flow models which
    utilize various assumptions as to discount rates,
    loan-prepayments, and servicing costs. The use of different
    valuation assumptions and inputs as well as assumptions relating
    to the collection of expected cash flows may have a material
    effect on MSRs estimated fair values.

Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by
    rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in
    asset liquidity. The Company s ability to sell securities,
    or the price ultimately realized for these securities, depends
    upon the demand and liquidity in the market and increases the
    use of judgment in determining the estimated fair value of
    certain securities.

The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments,
    as applicable, is described previously by investment type. The
    determination of such allowances and impairments is highly
    subjective and is based upon the Company s periodic
    evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated
    with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and
    assessments are revised as conditions change and new information
    becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly
    and reflects changes in allowances and impairments in operations
    as such evaluations are revised.

The recognition of income on certain investments (e.g.
    loan-backed securities, including mortgage-backed and
    asset-backed securities, certain structured investment
    transactions, trading securities, etc.) is dependent upon market
    conditions, which could result in prepayments and changes in
    amounts to be earned.

The accounting rules under FIN 46(r) for the determination
    of when an entity is a VIE and when to consolidate a VIE are
    complex. The determination of the VIE s primary beneficiary
    requires an evaluation of the contractual rights and obligations
    associated with each party involved in the entity, an estimate
    of the entity s expected losses and expected residual
    returns and the allocation of such estimates to each party
    involved in the entity. FIN 46(r) defines the primary
    beneficiary as the entity that will absorb a majority of a

F-14

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

VIE s expected losses, receive a majority of a VIE s
    expected residual returns if no single entity absorbs a majority
    of expected losses, or both.

When determining the primary beneficiary for structured
    investment products such as asset-backed securitizations and
    collateralized debt obligations, the Company uses historical
    default probabilities based on the credit rating of each issuer
    and other inputs including maturity dates, industry
    classifications and geographic location. Using computational
    algorithms, the analysis simulates default scenarios resulting
    in a range of expected losses and the probability associated
    with each occurrence. For other investment structures such as
    trust preferred securities, joint ventures, limited partnerships
    and limited liability companies, the Company gains an
    understanding of the design of the VIE and generally uses a
    qualitative approach to determine if it is the primary
    beneficiary. This approach includes an analysis of all
    contractual rights and obligations held by all parties including
    profit and loss allocations, repayment or residual value
    guarantees, put and call options and other derivative
    instruments. If the primary beneficiary of a VIE can not be
    identified using this qualitative approach, the Company
    calculates the expected losses and expected residual returns of
    the VIE using a probability-weighted cash flow model. The use of
    different methodologies, assumptions and inputs in the
    determination of the primary beneficiary could have a material
    effect on the amounts presented within the consolidated
    financial statements.

Derivative
    Financial Instruments  

Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived
    from interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, or other
    financial indices. Derivatives may be exchange-traded or
    contracted in the over-the-counter market. The Company uses a
    variety of derivatives, including swaps, forwards, futures and
    option contracts, to manage the risk associated with variability
    in cash flows or changes in estimated fair values related to the
    Company s financial instruments. The Company also uses
    derivative instruments to hedge its currency exposure associated
    with net investments in certain foreign operations. To a lesser
    extent, the Company uses credit derivatives, such as credit
    default swaps, to synthetically replicate investment risks and
    returns which are not readily available in the cash market. The
    Company also purchases certain securities, issues certain
    insurance policies and investment contracts and engages in
    certain reinsurance contracts that have embedded derivatives.

Freestanding derivatives are carried on the Company s
    consolidated balance sheet either as assets within other
    invested assets or as liabilities within other liabilities at
    estimated fair value as determined through the use of quoted
    market prices for exchange-traded derivatives and financial
    forwards to sell residential mortgage backed securities or
    through the use of pricing models for over-the-counter
    derivatives. The determination of estimated fair value, when
    quoted market values are not available, is based on market
    standard valuation methodologies and inputs that are assumed to
    be consistent with what other market participants would use when
    pricing the instruments. Derivative valuations can be affected
    by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates,
    financial indices, credit spreads, default risk (including the
    counterparties to the contract), volatility, liquidity and
    changes in estimates and assumptions used in the pricing models.

The significant inputs to the pricing models for most
    over-the-counter derivatives are inputs that are observable in
    the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by
    observable market data. Significant inputs that are observable
    generally include: interest rates, foreign currency exchange
    rates, interest rate curves, credit curves and volatility.
    However, certain over-the-counter derivatives may rely on inputs
    that are significant to the estimated fair value that are not
    observable in the market or cannot be derived principally from
    or corroborated by observable market data. Significant inputs
    that are unobservable generally include: independent broker
    quotes, credit correlation assumptions, references to emerging
    market currencies and inputs that are outside the observable
    portion of the interest rate curve, credit curve, volatility or
    other relevant market measure. These unobservable inputs may
    involve significant management judgment or estimation. Even
    though unobservable, these inputs are based on assumptions
    deemed appropriate given the circumstances and consistent with
    what other market participants would use when pricing such
    instruments. Most inputs for over-the-counter derivatives are
    mid

F-15

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

market inputs but, in certain cases, bid level inputs are used
    when they are deemed more representative of exit value. Market
    liquidity as well as the use of different methodologies,
    assumptions and inputs may have a material effect on the
    estimated fair values of the Company s derivatives and
    could materially affect net income.

The credit risk of both the counterparty and the Company are
    considered in determining the estimated fair value for all
    over-the-counter derivatives after taking into account the
    effects of netting agreements and collateral arrangements.
    Credit risk is monitored and consideration of any potential
    credit adjustment is based on a net exposure by counterparty.
    This is due to the existence of netting agreements and
    collateral arrangements which effectively serve to mitigate
    credit risk. The Company values its derivative positions using
    the standard swap curve which includes a credit risk adjustment.
    This credit risk adjustment is appropriate for those parties
    that execute trades at pricing levels consistent with the
    standard swap curve. As the Company and its significant
    derivative counterparties consistently execute trades at such
    pricing levels, additional credit risk adjustments are not
    currently required in the valuation process. The need for such
    additional credit risk adjustments is monitored by the Company.
    The Company s ability to consistently execute at such
    pricing levels is in part due to the netting agreements and
    collateral arrangements that are in place with all of its
    significant derivative counterparties. The evaluation of the
    requirement to make an additional credit risk adjustments is
    performed by the Company each reporting period.

If a derivative is not designated as an accounting hedge or its
    use in managing risk does not qualify for hedge accounting,
    changes in the estimated fair value of the derivative are
    generally reported in net investment gains (losses) except for
    those (i) in policyholder benefits and claims for economic
    hedges of liabilities embedded in certain variable annuity
    products offered by the Company, (ii) in net investment
    income for economic hedges of equity method investments in joint
    ventures, or for all derivatives held in relation to the trading
    portfolios and (iii) in other revenues for derivatives held
    in connection with the Company s mortgage banking
    activities. The fluctuations in estimated fair value of
    derivatives which have not been designated for hedge accounting
    can result in significant volatility in net income.

To qualify for hedge accounting, at the inception of the hedging
    relationship, the Company formally documents its risk management
    objective and strategy for undertaking the hedging transaction,
    as well as its designation of the hedge as either (i) a
    hedge of the estimated fair value of a recognized asset or
    liability or an unrecognized firm commitment ( fair value
    hedge  (ii) a hedge of a forecasted transaction or
    of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related
    to a recognized asset or liability ( cash flow
    hedge  or (iii) a hedge of a net investment in a
    foreign operation. In this documentation, the Company sets forth
    how the hedging instrument is expected to hedge the designated
    risks related to the hedged item and sets forth the method that
    will be used to retrospectively and prospectively assess the
    hedging instrument s effectiveness and the method which
    will be used to measure ineffectiveness. A derivative designated
    as a hedging instrument must be assessed as being highly
    effective in offsetting the designated risk of the hedged item.
    Hedge effectiveness is formally assessed at inception and
    periodically throughout the life of the designated hedging
    relationship. Assessments of hedge effectiveness and
    measurements of ineffectiveness are also subject to
    interpretation and estimation and different interpretations or
    estimates may have a material effect on the amount reported in
    net income.

The accounting for derivatives is complex and interpretations of
    the primary accounting standards continue to evolve in practice.
    Judgment is applied in determining the availability and
    application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate
    accounting treatment under these accounting standards. If it was
    determined that hedge accounting designations were not
    appropriately applied, reported net income could be materially
    affected. Differences in judgment as to the availability and
    application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate
    accounting treatment may result in a differing impact on the
    consolidated financial statements of the Company from that
    previously reported.

Under a fair value hedge, changes in the estimated fair value of
    the hedging derivative, including amounts measured as
    ineffectiveness, and changes in the estimated fair value of the
    hedged item related to the designated risk being hedged, are
    reported within net investment gains (losses). The estimated
    fair values of the hedging derivatives are exclusive of any
    accruals that are separately reported in the consolidated
    statement of income within interest

F-16

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

income or interest expense to match the location of the hedged
    item. However, balances that are not scheduled to settle until
    maturity are included in the estimated fair value of derivatives.

Under a cash flow hedge, changes in the estimated fair value of
    the hedging derivative measured as effective are reported within
    other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of
    stockholders  equity, and the deferred gains or losses on
    the derivative are reclassified into the consolidated statement
    of income when the Company s earnings are affected by the
    variability in cash flows of the hedged item. Changes in the
    estimated fair value of the hedging instrument measured as
    ineffectiveness are reported within net investment gains
    (losses). The estimated fair values of the hedging derivatives
    are exclusive of any accruals that are separately reported in
    the consolidated statement of income within interest income or
    interest expense to match the location of the hedged item.
    However, balances that are not scheduled to settle until
    maturity are included in the estimated fair value of derivatives.

In a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, changes
    in the estimated fair value of the hedging derivative that are
    measured as effective are reported within other comprehensive
    income (loss) consistent with the translation adjustment for the
    hedged net investment in the foreign operation. Changes in the
    estimated fair value of the hedging instrument measured as
    ineffectiveness are reported within net investment gains
    (losses).

The Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively when:
    (i) it is determined that the derivative is no longer
    highly effective in offsetting changes in the estimated fair
    value or cash flows of a hedged item; (ii) the derivative
    expires, is sold, terminated, or exercised; (iii) it is no
    longer probable that the hedged forecasted transaction will
    occur; (iv) a hedged firm commitment no longer meets the
    definition of a firm commitment; or (v) the derivative is
    de-designated as a hedging instrument.

When hedge accounting is discontinued because it is determined
    that the derivative is not highly effective in offsetting
    changes in the estimate fair value or cash flows of a hedged
    item, the derivative continues to be carried on the consolidated
    balance sheet at its estimated fair value, with changes in
    estimated fair value recognized currently in net investment
    gains (losses). The carrying value of the hedged recognized
    asset or liability under a fair value hedge is no longer
    adjusted for changes in its estimated fair value due to the
    hedged risk, and the cumulative adjustment to its carrying value
    is amortized into income over the remaining life of the hedged
    item. Provided the hedged forecasted transaction is still
    probable of occurrence, the changes in estimated fair value of
    derivatives recorded in other comprehensive income (loss)
    related to discontinued cash flow hedges are released into the
    consolidated statement of income when the Company s
    earnings are affected by the variability in cash flows of the
    hedged item.

When hedge accounting is discontinued because it is no longer
    probable that the forecasted transactions will occur by the end
    of the specified time period or the hedged item no longer meets
    the definition of a firm commitment, the derivative continues to
    be carried on the consolidated balance sheet at its estimated
    fair value, with changes in estimated fair value recognized
    currently in net investment gains (losses). Any asset or
    liability associated with a recognized firm commitment is
    derecognized from the consolidated balance sheet, and recorded
    currently in net investment gains (losses). Deferred gains and
    losses of a derivative recorded in other comprehensive income
    (loss) pursuant to the cash flow hedge of a forecasted
    transaction are recognized immediately in net investment gains
    (losses).

In all other situations in which hedge accounting is
    discontinued, the derivative is carried at its estimated fair
    value on the consolidated balance sheet, with changes in its
    estimated fair value recognized in the current period as net
    investment gains (losses).

The Company is also a party to financial instruments that
    contain terms which are deemed to be embedded derivatives. The
    Company assesses each identified embedded derivative to
    determine whether it is required to be bifurcated. If the
    instrument would not be accounted for in its entirety at
    estimated fair value and it is determined that the terms of the
    embedded derivative are not clearly and closely related to the
    economic characteristics of the host contract, and that a
    separate instrument with the same terms would qualify as a
    derivative instrument, the

F-17

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

embedded derivative is bifurcated from the host contract and
    accounted for as a freestanding derivative. Such embedded
    derivatives are carried on the consolidated balance sheet at
    estimated fair value with the host contract and changes in their
    estimated fair value are reported currently in net investment
    gains (losses) or in policyholder benefits and claims. If the
    Company is unable to properly identify and measure an embedded
    derivative for separation from its host contract, the entire
    contract is carried on the balance sheet at estimated fair
    value, with changes in estimated fair value recognized in the
    current period in net investment gains (losses) or in
    policyholder benefits and claims. Additionally, the Company may
    elect to carry an entire contract on the balance sheet at
    estimated fair value, with changes in estimated fair value
    recognized in the current period in net investment gains
    (losses) or in policyholder benefits and claims if that contract
    contains an embedded derivative that requires bifurcation. There
    is a risk that embedded derivatives requiring bifurcation may
    not be identified and reported at estimated fair value in the
    consolidated financial statements and that their related changes
    in estimated fair value could materially affect reported net
    income.

Cash and
    Cash Equivalents  

The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased
    with an original or remaining maturity of three months or less
    at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents.

Property,
    Equipment, Leasehold Improvements and Computer
    Software  

Property, equipment and leasehold improvements, which are
    included in other assets, are stated at cost, less accumulated
    depreciation and amortization. Depreciation is determined using
    either the straight-line or sum-of-the-years-digits method over
    the estimated useful lives of the assets, as appropriate. The
    estimated life for company occupied real estate property is
    generally 40 years. Estimated lives generally range from
    five to ten years for leasehold improvements and three to seven
    years for all other property and equipment. The cost basis of
    the property, equipment and leasehold improvements was
    $1.8 billion and $1.6 billion at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively. Accumulated depreciation and
    amortization of property, equipment and leasehold improvements
    was $926 million and $810 million at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively. Related depreciation and
    amortization expense was $150 million, $132 million
    and $125 million for the years ended December 31,
    2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Computer software, which is included in other assets, is stated
    at cost, less accumulated amortization. Purchased software
    costs, as well as certain internal and external costs incurred
    to develop internal-use computer software during the application
    development stage, are capitalized. Such costs are amortized
    generally over a four-year period using the straight-line
    method. The cost basis of computer software was
    $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively. Accumulated amortization of
    capitalized software was $1,002 million and
    $858 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. Related amortization expense was
    $153 million, $121 million and $109 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.

Deferred
    Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business
    Acquired  

The Company incurs significant costs in connection with
    acquiring new and renewal insurance business. Costs that vary
    with and relate to the production of new business are deferred
    as DAC. Such costs consist principally of commissions and agency
    and policy issuance expenses. VOBA is an intangible asset that
    reflects the estimated fair value of in-force contracts in a
    life insurance company acquisition and represents the portion of
    the purchase price that is allocated to the value of the right
    to receive future cash flows from the business in-force at the
    acquisition date. VOBA is based on actuarially determined
    projections, by each block of business, of future policy and
    contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate
    account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment
    returns and other factors. Actual experience on the purchased
    business may vary from these projections. The recovery of DAC
    and VOBA is dependent upon the future profitability of the
    related business. DAC and VOBA are aggregated in the financial
    statements for reporting purposes.

F-18

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

DAC for property and casualty insurance contracts, which is
    primarily composed of commissions and certain underwriting
    expenses, is amortized on a pro rata basis over the applicable
    contract term or reinsurance treaty.

DAC and VOBA on life insurance or investment-type contracts are
    amortized in proportion to gross premiums, gross margins or
    gross profits, depending on the type of contract as described
    below.

The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to non-participating
    and non-dividend-paying traditional contracts (term insurance,
    non-participating whole life insurance, non-medical health
    insurance, and traditional group life insurance) over the entire
    premium paying period in proportion to the present value of
    actual historic and expected future gross premiums. The present
    value of expected premiums is based upon the premium requirement
    of each policy and assumptions for mortality, morbidity,
    persistency, and investment returns at policy issuance, or
    policy acquisition, as it relates to VOBA, that include
    provisions for adverse deviation and are consistent with the
    assumptions used to calculate future policyholder benefit
    liabilities. These assumptions are not revised after policy
    issuance or acquisition unless the DAC or VOBA balance is deemed
    to be unrecoverable from future expected profits. Absent a
    premium deficiency, variability in amortization after policy
    issuance or acquisition is caused only by variability in premium
    volumes.

The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to participating,
    dividend-paying traditional contracts over the estimated lives
    of the contracts in proportion to actual and expected future
    gross margins. The amortization includes interest based on rates
    in effect at inception or acquisition of the contracts. The
    future gross margins are dependent principally on investment
    returns, policyholder dividend scales, mortality, persistency,
    expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of
    reinsurance counterparties, and certain economic variables, such
    as inflation. For participating contracts (dividend paying
    traditional contracts within the closed block) future gross
    margins are also dependent upon changes in the policyholder
    dividend obligation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates
    that investment returns, expenses, persistency, and other factor
    changes and policyholder dividend scales are reasonably likely
    to impact significantly the rate of DAC and VOBA amortization.
    Each reporting period, the Company updates the estimated gross
    margins with the actual gross margins for that period. When the
    actual gross margins change from previously estimated gross
    margins, the cumulative DAC and VOBA amortization is re-
    estimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge or credit to
    current operations. When actual gross margins exceed those
    previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization will
    increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings. The
    opposite result occurs when the actual gross margins are below
    the previously estimated gross margins. Each reporting period,
    the Company also updates the actual amount of business in-force,
    which impacts expected future gross margins. When expected
    future gross margins are below those previously estimated, the
    DAC and VOBA amortization will increase, resulting in a current
    period charge to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the
    expected future gross margins are above the previously estimated
    expected future gross margins. Total DAC and VOBA amortization
    during a particular period may increase or decrease depending
    upon the relative size of the amortization change resulting from
    the adjustment to DAC and VOBA for the update of actual gross
    margins and the re-estimation of expected future gross margins.
    Each period, the Company also reviews the estimated gross
    margins for each block of business to determine the
    recoverability of DAC and VOBA balances.

The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to fixed and variable
    universal life contracts and fixed and variable deferred annuity
    contracts over the estimated lives of the contracts in
    proportion to actual and expected future gross profits. The
    amortization includes interest based on rates in effect at
    inception or acquisition of the contracts. The amount of future
    gross profits is dependent principally upon returns in excess of
    the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, persistency,
    interest crediting rates, expenses to administer the business,
    creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties, the effect of
    any hedges used, and certain economic variables, such as
    inflation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates that
    investment returns, expenses, and persistency are reasonably
    likely to impact significantly the rate of DAC and VOBA
    amortization. Each reporting period, the Company updates the
    estimated gross profits with the actual gross profits for that
    period. When the actual gross profits change from previously
    estimated gross profits, the cumulative DAC and VOBA
    amortization is re-estimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge
    or credit to current operations. When actual gross profits
    exceed those

F-19

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization will
    increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings. The
    opposite result occurs when the actual gross profits are below
    the previously estimated gross profits. Each reporting period,
    the Company also updates the actual amount of business remaining
    in-force, which impacts expected future gross profits. When
    expected future gross profits are below those previously
    estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization will increase,
    resulting in a current period charge to earnings. The opposite
    result occurs when the expected future gross profits are above
    the previously estimated expected future gross profits. Total
    DAC and VOBA amortization during a particular period may
    increase or decrease depending upon the relative size of the
    amortization change resulting from the adjustment to DAC and
    VOBA for the update of actual gross profits and the
    re-estimation of expected future gross profits. Each period, the
    Company also reviews the estimated gross profits for each block
    of business to determine the recoverability of DAC and VOBA
    balances.

Separate account rates of return on variable universal life
    contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts affect
    in-force account balances on such contracts each reporting
    period which can result in significant fluctuations in
    amortization of DAC and VOBA. Returns that are higher than the
    Company s long-term expectation produce higher account
    balances, which increases the Company s future fee
    expectations and decreases future benefit payment expectations
    on minimum death and living benefit guarantees, resulting in
    higher expected future gross profits. The opposite result occurs
    when returns are lower than the Company s long-term
    expectation. The Company s practice to determine the impact
    of gross profits resulting from returns on separate accounts
    assumes that long-term appreciation in equity markets is not
    changed by short-term market fluctuations, but is only changed
    when sustained interim deviations are expected. The Company
    monitors these changes and only changes the assumption when its
    long-term expectation changes.

The Company also reviews periodically other long-term
    assumptions underlying the projections of estimated gross
    margins and profits. These include investment returns,
    policyholder dividend scales, interest crediting rates,
    mortality, persistency, and expenses to administer business.
    Management annually updates assumptions used in the calculation
    of estimated gross margins and profits which may have
    significantly changed. If the update of assumptions causes
    expected future gross margins and profits to increase, DAC and
    VOBA amortization will decrease, resulting in a current period
    increase to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the
    assumption update causes expected future gross margins and
    profits to decrease.

Prior to 2007, DAC related to any internally replaced contract
    was generally expensed at the date of replacement. As described
    more fully in  Adoption of New Accounting
    Pronouncements,  effective January 1, 2007, the
    Company adopted Statement of Position ( SOP )
     05-1, 
     Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition
    Costs in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance
    Contracts
      ( SOP 05-1 ). 
    Under
     SOP 05-1, 
    an internal replacement is defined as a modification in product
    benefits, features, rights or coverages that occur by the
    exchange of a contract for a new contract, or by amendment,
    endorsement, or rider to a contract, or by election or coverage
    within a contract. If the modification substantially changes the
    contract, the DAC is written off immediately through income and
    any new deferrable costs associated with the replacement
    contract are deferred. If the modification does not
    substantially change the contract, the DAC amortization on the
    original contract will continue and any acquisition costs
    associated with the related modification are expensed.

Sales
    Inducements  

The Company has two different types of sales inducements which
    are included in other assets: (i) the policyholder receives
    a bonus whereby the policyholder s initial account balance
    is increased by an amount equal to a specified percentage of the
    customer s deposit; and (ii) the policyholder receives
    a higher interest rate using a dollar cost averaging method than
    would have been received based on the normal general account
    interest rate credited. The Company defers sales inducements and
    amortizes them over the life of the policy using the same
    methodology and assumptions used to amortize DAC. The
    amortization of sales inducements is included in interest
    credited to policyholder account balances. Each year the Company
    reviews the deferred sales inducements to determine the
    recoverability of these balances.

F-20

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Value of
    Distribution Agreements and Customer Relationships
    Acquired  

Value of distribution agreements ( VODA ) is reported
    in other assets and represents the present value of future
    profits associated with the expected future business derived
    from the distribution agreements. Value of customer
    relationships acquired ( VOCRA ) is also reported in
    other assets and represents the present value of the expected
    future profits associated with the expected future business
    acquired through existing customers of the acquired company or
    business. The VODA and VOCRA associated with past acquisitions
    are amortized over useful life ranging from 10 to 30 years
    and such amortization is included in other expenses. Each year
    the Company reviews VODA and VOCRA to determine the
    recoverability of these balances.

Goodwill  

Goodwill is the excess of cost over the estimated fair value of
    net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for
    impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or
    circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate,
    indicate that there may be justification for conducting an
    interim test. The Company performs its annual goodwill
    impairment testing during the third quarter of each year based
    upon data as of the close of the second quarter.

Impairment testing is performed using the fair value approach,
    which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the
     reporting unit  level. A reporting unit is the
    operating segment or a business one level below the operating
    segment, if discrete financial information is prepared and
    regularly reviewed by management at that level. For purposes of
    goodwill impairment testing, a significant portion of goodwill
    within Corporate   Other is allocated to reporting
    units within the Company s business segments.

For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, if the carrying
    value of a reporting unit s goodwill exceeds its estimated
    fair value, there is an indication of impairment and the implied
    fair value of the goodwill is determined in the same manner as
    the amount of goodwill would be determined in a business
    acquisition. The excess of the carrying value of goodwill over
    the implied fair value of goodwill is recognized as an
    impairment and recorded as a charge against net income.

In performing its goodwill impairment tests, when management
    believes meaningful comparable market data are available, the
    estimated fair values of the reporting units are determined
    using a market multiple approach. When relevant comparables are
    not available, the Company uses a discounted cash flow model.
    For reporting units which are particularly sensitive to market
    assumptions, such as the annuities and variable  
    universal life reporting units within the Individual segment,
    the Company may corroborate its estimated fair values by using
    additional valuation methodologies.

The key inputs, judgments and assumptions necessary in
    determining estimated fair value include projected earnings,
    current book value (with and without accumulated other
    comprehensive income), the level of economic capital required to
    support the mix of business, long term growth rates, comparative
    market multiples, the account value of in-force business,
    projections of new and renewal business as well as margins on
    such business, the level of interest rates, credit spreads,
    equity market levels and the discount rate management believes
    appropriate to the risk associated with the respective reporting
    unit. The estimated fair value of the annuity and
    variable   universal life reporting units are
    particularly sensitive to the equity market levels.

When testing goodwill for impairment, management also considers
    the Company s market capitalization in relation to its book
    value. Management believes that the overall decrease in the
    Company s current market capitalization is not
    representative of a long-term decrease in the value of the
    underlying reporting units.

Management applies significant judgment when determining the
    estimated fair value of the Company s reporting units and
    when assessing the relationship of market capitalization to the
    estimated fair value of its reporting units and their book
    value. The valuation methodologies utilized are subject to key
    judgments and assumptions that are sensitive to change.
    Estimates of fair value are inherently uncertain and represent
    only

F-21

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

management s reasonable expectation regarding future
    developments. These estimates and the judgments and assumptions
    upon which the estimates are based will, in all likelihood,
    differ in some respects from actual future results. Declines in
    the estimated fair value of the Company s reporting units
    could result in goodwill impairments in future periods which
    could materially adversely affect the Company s results of
    operations or financial position.

Management continues to evaluate current market conditions that
    may affect the estimated fair value of the Company s
    reporting units to assess whether any goodwill impairment
    exists. Continued deteriorating or adverse market conditions for
    certain reporting units may have a significant impact on the
    estimated fair value of these reporting units and could result
    in future impairments of goodwill.

See Note 6 for further consideration of goodwill impairment
    testing during 2008.

Liability
    for Future Policy Benefits and Policyholder Account
    Balances  

The Company establishes liabilities for amounts payable under
    insurance policies, including traditional life insurance,
    traditional annuities and non-medical health insurance.
    Generally, amounts are payable over an extended period of time
    and related liabilities are calculated as the present value of
    future expected benefits to be paid reduced by the present value
    of future expected premiums. Such liabilities are established
    based on methods and underlying assumptions in accordance with
    GAAP and applicable actuarial standards. Principal assumptions
    used in the establishment of liabilities for future policy
    benefits are mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal,
    retirement, disability incidence, disability terminations,
    investment returns, inflation, expenses and other contingent
    events as appropriate to the respective product type. Utilizing
    these assumptions, liabilities are established on a block of
    business basis.

Future policy benefit liabilities for participating traditional
    life insurance policies are equal to the aggregate of
    (i) net level premium reserves for death and endowment
    policy benefits (calculated based upon the non-forfeiture
    interest rate, ranging from 3% to 7% for domestic business and
    3% to 10% for international business, and mortality rates
    guaranteed in calculating the cash surrender values described in
    such contracts); and (ii) the liability for terminal
    dividends.

Future policy benefits for non-participating traditional life
    insurance policies are equal to the aggregate of the present
    value of expected future benefit payments and related expenses
    less the present value of expected future net premiums.
    Assumptions as to mortality and persistency are based upon the
    Company s experience when the basis of the liability is
    established. Interest rates assumptions for the aggregate future
    policy benefit liabilities range from 2% to 8% for domestic
    business and 2% to 12% for international business.

Participating business represented approximately 8% and 9% of
    the Company s life insurance in-force, and 14% and 14% of
    the number of life insurance policies in-force, at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Participating
    policies represented approximately 27% and 27%, 31% and 30%, and
    30% and 29% of gross and net life insurance premiums for the
    years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
    The percentages indicated are calculated excluding the business
    of the reinsurance segment.

Future policy benefit liabilities for individual and group
    traditional fixed annuities after annuitization are equal to the
    present value of expected future payments. Interest rates
    assumptions used in establishing such liabilities range from 2%
    to 11% for domestic business and 4% to 10% for international
    business.

Future policy benefit liabilities for non-medical health
    insurance are calculated using the net level premium method and
    assumptions as to future morbidity, withdrawals and interest,
    which provide a margin for adverse deviation. Interest rates
    assumptions used in establishing such liabilities range from 4%
    to 7% for domestic business and 2% to 10% for international
    business.

Future policy benefit liabilities for disabled lives are
    estimated using the present value of benefits method and
    experience assumptions as to claim terminations, expenses and
    interest. Interest rates assumptions used in establishing such
    liabilities range from 3% to 8% for domestic business and 2% to
    10% for international business.

F-22

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses for property
    and casualty insurance are included in future policyholder
    benefits and represent the amount estimated for claims that have
    been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not
    reported. Liabilities for unpaid claims are estimated based upon
    the Company s historical experience and other actuarial
    assumptions that consider the effects of current developments,
    anticipated trends and risk management programs, reduced for
    anticipated salvage and subrogation. The effects of changes in
    such estimated liabilities are included in the results of
    operations in the period in which the changes occur.

The Company establishes future policy benefit liabilities for
    minimum death and income benefit guarantees relating to certain
    annuity contracts and secondary and
     paid-up 
    guarantees relating to certain life policies as follows:

Guaranteed minimum death benefit ( GMDB ) liabilities
    are determined by estimating the expected value of death
    benefits in excess of the projected account balance and
    recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period
    based on total expected assessments. The Company regularly
    evaluates estimates used and adjusts the additional liability
    balance, with a related charge or credit to benefit expense, if
    actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier
    assumptions should be revised. The assumptions used in
    estimating the GMDB liabilities are consistent with those used
    for amortizing DAC, and are thus subject to the same variability
    and risk. The assumptions of investment performance and
    volatility are consistent with the historical experience of the
    Standard   Poor s ( S P ) 500
    Index. The benefit assumptions used in calculating the
    liabilities are based on the average benefits payable over a
    range of scenarios.

Guaranteed minimum income benefit ( GMIB ) liabilities
    are determined by estimating the expected value of the income
    benefits in excess of the projected account balance at any
    future date of annuitization and recognizing the excess ratably
    over the accumulation period based on total expected
    assessments. The Company regularly evaluates estimates used and
    adjusts the additional liability balance, with a related charge
    or credit to benefit expense, if actual experience or other
    evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised.
    The assumptions used for estimating the GMIB liabilities are
    consistent with those used for estimating the GMDB liabilities.
    In addition, the calculation of guaranteed annuitization benefit
    liabilities incorporates an assumption for the percentage of the
    potential annuitizations that may be elected by the
    contractholder. Certain GMIBs have settlement features that
    result in a portion of that guarantee being accounted for as an
    embedded derivative and are recorded in policyholder account
    balances as described below.

Liabilities for universal and variable life secondary guarantees
    and  paid-up 
    guarantees are determined by estimating the expected value of
    death benefits payable when the account balance is projected to
    be zero and recognizing those benefits ratably over the
    accumulation period based on total expected assessments. The
    Company regularly evaluates estimates used and adjusts the
    additional liability balances, with a related charge or credit
    to benefit expense, if actual experience or other evidence
    suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised. The
    assumptions used in estimating the secondary and
     paid-up 
    guarantee liabilities are consistent with those used for
    amortizing DAC, and are thus subject to the same variability and
    risk. The assumptions of investment performance and volatility
    for variable products are consistent with historical S P
    experience. The benefits used in calculating the liabilities are
    based on the average benefits payable over a range of scenarios.

The Company establishes policyholder account balances for
    guaranteed minimum benefit riders relating to certain variable
    annuity products as follows:

Guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit riders ( GMWB )
    guarantee the contractholder a return of their purchase payment
    via partial withdrawals, even if the account value is reduced to
    zero, provided that the contractholder s cumulative
    withdrawals in a contract year do not exceed a certain limit.
    The initial guaranteed withdrawal amount is equal to the initial
    benefit base as defined in the contract (typically, the initial
    purchase payments plus applicable bonus amounts). The GMWB is an
    embedded derivative, which is measured at estimated fair value
    separately from the host variable annuity product.

F-23

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit riders
    ( GMAB ) provide the contractholder, after a specified
    period of time determined at the time of issuance of the
    variable annuity contract, with a minimum accumulation of their
    purchase payments even if the account value is reduced to zero.
    The initial guaranteed accumulation amount is equal to the
    initial benefit base as defined in the contract (typically, the
    initial purchase payments plus applicable bonus amounts). The
    GMAB is an embedded derivative, which is measured at estimated
    fair value separately from the host variable annuity product.

For GMWB, GMAB and certain GMIB, the initial benefit base is
    increased by additional purchase payments made within a certain
    time period and decreases by benefits paid
     and/or 
    withdrawal amounts. After a specified period of time, the
    benefit base may also increase as a result of an optional reset
    as defined in the contract.

At the inception, the GMWB, GMAB and certain GMIB are accounted
    for as embedded derivatives with changes in estimated fair value
    reported in net investment gains (losses).

The Company attributes to the embedded derivative a portion of
    the expected future rider fees to be collected from the
    policyholder equal to the present value of expected future
    guaranteed benefits. Any additional fees represent
     excess  fees and are reported in universal life and
    investment-type product policy fees.

The fair value for these riders is estimated using the present
    value of future benefits minus the present value of future fees
    using actuarial and capital market assumptions related to the
    projected cash flows over the expected lives of the contracts.
    The projections of future benefits and future fees require
    capital market and actuarial assumptions including expectations
    concerning policyholder behavior. A risk neutral valuation
    methodology is used under which the cash flows from the riders
    are projected under multiple capital market scenarios using
    observable risk free rates. Beginning in 2008, the valuation of
    these embedded derivatives now includes an adjustment for the
    Company s own credit and risk margins for non-capital
    market inputs. The Company s own credit adjustment is
    determined taking into consideration publicly available
    information relating to the Company s debt as well as its
    claims paying ability. Risk margins are established to capture
    the non-capital market risks of the instrument which represent
    the additional compensation a market participant would require
    to assume the risks related to the uncertainties of such
    actuarial assumptions as annuitization, premium persistency,
    partial withdrawal and surrenders. The establishment of risk
    margins requires the use of significant management judgment.

These riders may be more costly than expected in volatile or
    declining equity markets. Market conditions including, but not
    limited to, changes in interest rates, equity indices, market
    volatility and foreign currency exchange rates; changes in the
    Company s own credit standing; and variations in actuarial
    assumptions regarding policyholder behavior, and risk margins
    related to non-capital market inputs may result in significant
    fluctuations in the estimated fair value of the riders that
    could materially affect net income.

The Company periodically reviews its estimates of actuarial
    liabilities for future policy benefits and compares them with
    its actual experience. Differences between actual experience and
    the assumptions used in pricing these policies, guarantees and
    riders and in the establishment of the related liabilities
    result in variances in profit and could result in losses. The
    effects of changes in such estimated liabilities are included in
    the results of operations in the period in which the changes
    occur.

Policyholder account balances relate to investment-type
    contracts, universal life-type policies and certain guaranteed
    minimum benefit riders. Investment-type contracts principally
    include traditional individual fixed annuities in the
    accumulation phase and, non-variable group annuity contracts.
    Policyholder account balances for these contracts are equal to
    (i) policy account values, which consist of an accumulation
    of gross premium payments; (ii) credited interest, ranging
    from 1% to 17% for domestic business and 1% to 15% for
    international business, less expenses, mortality charges, and
    withdrawals; and (iii) fair value adjustments relating to
    business combinations. Bank deposits related to the
    Company s banking operations are also included in
    policyholder account balances.

F-24

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Other
    Policyholder Funds  

Other policyholder funds include policy and contract claims,
    unearned revenue liabilities, premiums received in advance,
    policyholder dividends due and unpaid, and policyholder
    dividends left on deposit.

The liability for policy and contract claims generally relates
    to incurred but not reported death, disability, long-term care
    and dental claims, as well as claims which have been reported
    but not yet settled. The liability for these claims is based on
    the Company s estimated ultimate cost of settling all
    claims. The Company derives estimates for the development of
    incurred but not reported claims principally from actuarial
    analyses of historical patterns of claims and claims development
    for each line of business. The methods used to determine these
    estimates are continually reviewed. Adjustments resulting from
    this continuous review process and differences between estimates
    and payments for claims are recognized in policyholder benefits
    and claims expense in the period in which the estimates are
    changed or payments are made.

The unearned revenue liability relates to universal life-type
    and investment-type products and represents policy charges for
    services to be provided in future periods. The charges are
    deferred as unearned revenue and amortized using the
    product s estimated gross profits and margins, similar to
    DAC. Such amortization is recorded in universal life and
    investment-type product policy fees.

The Company accounts for the prepayment of premiums on its
    individual life, group life and health contracts as premium
    received in advance and applies the cash received to premiums
    when due.

Also included in other policyholder funds are policyholder
    dividends due and unpaid on participating policies and
    policyholder dividends left on deposit. Such liabilities are
    presented at amounts contractually due to policyholders.

Recognition
    of Insurance Revenue and Related Benefits  

Premiums related to traditional life and annuity policies with
    life contingencies are recognized as revenues when due from
    policyholders. Policyholder benefits and expenses are provided
    against such revenues to recognize profits over the estimated
    lives of the policies. When premiums are due over a
    significantly shorter period than the period over which benefits
    are provided, any excess profit is deferred and recognized into
    operations in a constant relationship to insurance in-force or,
    for annuities, the amount of expected future policy benefit
    payments.

Premiums related to non-medical health and disability contracts
    are recognized on a pro rata basis over the applicable contract
    term.

Deposits related to universal life-type and investment-type
    products are credited to policyholder account balances. Revenues
    from such contracts consist of amounts assessed against
    policyholder account balances for mortality, policy
    administration and surrender charges and are recorded in
    universal life and investment-type product policy fees in the
    period in which services are provided. Amounts that are charged
    to operations include interest credited and benefit claims
    incurred in excess of related policyholder account balances.

Premiums related to property and casualty contracts are
    recognized as revenue on a pro rata basis over the applicable
    contract term. Unearned premiums, representing the portion of
    premium written relating to the unexpired coverage, are included
    in future policy benefits.

Premiums, policy fees, policyholder benefits and expenses are
    presented net of reinsurance.

The portion of fees allocated to embedded derivatives described
    previously is recognized within net investment gains (losses) as
    part of the estimated fair value of embedded derivative.

F-25

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Other
    Revenues  

Other revenues include, in addition to items described elsewhere
    herein, advisory fees, broker-dealer commissions and fees, and
    administrative service fees are also included in other revenues.
    Such fees and commissions are recognized in the period in which
    services are performed. Other revenues also include changes in
    account value relating to corporate-owned life insurance
    ( COLI ). Under certain COLI contracts, if the Company
    reports certain unlikely adverse results in its consolidated
    financial statements, withdrawals would not be immediately
    available and would be subject to market value adjustment, which
    could result in a reduction of the account value.

Policyholder
    Dividends  

Policyholder dividends are approved annually by the insurance
    subsidiaries  boards of directors. The aggregate amount of
    policyholder dividends is related to actual interest, mortality,
    morbidity and expense experience for the year, as well as
    management s judgment as to the appropriate level of
    statutory surplus to be retained by the insurance subsidiaries.

Income
    Taxes  

The Holding Company and its includable life insurance and
    non-life insurance subsidiaries file a consolidated
    U.S. federal income tax return in accordance with the
    provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
     Code ). Non-includable subsidiaries file either
    separate individual corporate tax returns or separate
    consolidated tax returns.

The Company s accounting for income taxes represents
    management s best estimate of various events and
    transactions.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from temporary
    differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of
    assets and liabilities are measured at the balance sheet date
    using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in
    the years the temporary differences are expected to reverse.

The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the
    existence of sufficient taxable income within the carryback or
    carryforward periods under the tax law in the applicable tax
    jurisdiction. Valuation allowances are established when
    management determines, based on available information, that it
    is more likely than not that deferred income tax assets will not
    be realized. Significant judgment is required in determining
    whether valuation allowances should be established as well as
    the amount of such allowances. When making such determination,
    consideration is given to, among other things, the following:

(i) 

future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary
    differences and carryforwards;

(ii) 

future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences;

(iii) 

taxable income in prior carryback years; and

(iv) 

tax planning strategies.

The Company may be required to change its provision for income
    taxes in certain circumstances. Examples of such circumstances
    include when the ultimate deductibility of certain items is
    challenged by taxing authorities (See also Note 15) or
    when estimates used in determining valuation allowances on
    deferred tax assets significantly change or when receipt of new
    information indicates the need for adjustment in valuation
    allowances. Additionally, future events, such as changes in tax
    laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such laws or
    regulations, could have an impact on the provision for income
    tax and the effective tax rate. Any such changes could
    significantly affect the amounts reported in the consolidated
    financial statements in the year these changes occur.

F-26

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

As described more fully in  Adoption of New Accounting
    Pronouncements,  the Company adopted FIN No. 48,
     Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   An
    Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109
     ( FIN 48 ) effective January 1, 2007.
    Under FIN 48, the Company determines whether it is
    more-likely-than-not that a tax position will be sustained upon
    examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before any
    part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial statements.
    A tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that
    is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon
    settlement. Unrecognized tax benefits due to tax uncertainties
    that do not meet the threshold are included within other
    liabilities and are charged to earnings in the period that such
    determination is made.

The Company classifies interest recognized as interest expense
    and penalties recognized as a component of income tax.

Reinsurance  

The Company enters into reinsurance agreements primarily as a
    purchaser of reinsurance for its various insurance products and
    also as a provider of reinsurance for some insurance products
    issued by third parties.

For each of its reinsurance agreements, the Company determines
    if the agreement provides indemnification against loss or
    liability relating to insurance risk in accordance with
    applicable accounting standards. The Company reviews all
    contractual features, particularly those that may limit the
    amount of insurance risk to which the reinsurer is subject or
    features that delay the timely reimbursement of claims.

For reinsurance of existing in-force blocks of long-duration
    contracts that transfer significant insurance risk, the
    difference, if any, between the amounts paid (received), and the
    liabilities ceded (assumed) related to the underlying contracts
    is considered the net cost of reinsurance at the inception of
    the reinsurance agreement. The net cost of reinsurance is
    recorded as an adjustment to DAC and recognized as a component
    of other expenses on a basis consistent with the way the
    acquisition costs on the underlying reinsured contracts would be
    recognized. Subsequent amounts paid (received) on the
    reinsurance of in-force blocks, as well as amounts paid
    (received) related to new business, are recorded as ceded
    (assumed) premiums and ceded (assumed) future policy benefit
    liabilities are established.

For prospective reinsurance of short-duration contracts that
    meet the criteria for reinsurance accounting, amounts paid
    (received) are recorded as ceded (assumed) premiums and ceded
    (assumed) unearned premiums and are reflected as a component of
    premiums and other receivables (future policy benefits). Such
    amounts are amortized through earned premiums over the remaining
    contract period in proportion to the amount of protection
    provided. For retroactive reinsurance of short-duration
    contracts that meet the criteria of reinsurance accounting,
    amounts paid (received) in excess of (which do not exceed) the
    related insurance liabilities ceded (assumed) are recognized
    immediately as a loss. Any gains on such retroactive agreements
    are deferred and recorded in other liabilities. The gains are
    amortized primarily using the recovery method.

The assumptions used to account for both long and short-duration
    reinsurance agreements are consistent with those used for the
    underlying contracts. Ceded policyholder and contract related
    liabilities, other than those currently due, are reported gross
    on the balance sheet.

Amounts currently recoverable under reinsurance agreements are
    included in premiums and other receivables and amounts currently
    payable are included in other liabilities. Such assets and
    liabilities relating to reinsurance agreements with the same
    reinsurer may be recorded net on the balance sheet, if a right
    of offset exists within the reinsurance agreement.

Premiums, fees and policyholder benefits and claims include
    amounts assumed under reinsurance agreements and are net of
    reinsurance ceded. Amounts received from reinsurers for policy
    administration are reported in other revenues.

F-27

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

If the Company determines that a reinsurance agreement does not
    expose the reinsurer to a reasonable possibility of a
    significant loss from insurance risk, the Company records the
    agreement using the deposit method of accounting. Deposits
    received are included in other liabilities and deposits made are
    included within other assets. As amounts are paid or received,
    consistent with the underlying contracts, the deposit assets or
    liabilities are adjusted. Interest on such deposits is recorded
    as other revenues or other expenses, as appropriate.
    Periodically, the Company evaluates the adequacy of the expected
    payments or recoveries and adjusts the deposit asset or
    liability through other revenues or other expenses, as
    appropriate.

Accounting for reinsurance requires extensive use of assumptions
    and estimates, particularly related to the future performance of
    the underlying business and the potential impact of counterparty
    credit risks. The Company periodically reviews actual and
    anticipated experience compared to the aforementioned
    assumptions used to establish assets and liabilities relating to
    ceded and assumed reinsurance and evaluates the financial
    strength of counterparties to its reinsurance agreements using
    criteria similar to that evaluated in the security impairment
    process discussed previously.

Employee
    Benefit Plans  

Certain subsidiaries of the Holding Company (the
     Subsidiaries ) sponsor
     and/or 
    administer various plans that provide defined benefit pension
    and other postretirement benefits covering eligible employees
    and sales representatives. A December 31 measurement date is
    used for all of the Subsidiaries  defined benefit pension
    and other postretirement benefit plans.

Pension benefits are provided utilizing either a traditional
    formula or cash balance formula. The traditional formula
    provides benefits based upon years of credited service and
    either final average or career average earnings. The cash
    balance formula utilizes hypothetical or notional accounts which
    credit participants with benefits equal to a percentage of
    eligible pay, as well as earnings credits, determined annually
    based upon the average annual rate of interest on
     30-year 
    Treasury securities, for each account balance. At
    December 31, 2008, virtually all the obligations are
    calculated using the traditional formula.

The Subsidiaries also provide certain postemployment benefits
    and certain postretirement medical and life insurance benefits
    for retired employees. Employees of the Subsidiaries who were
    hired prior to 2003 (or, in certain cases, rehired during or
    after 2003) and meet age and service criteria while working
    for one of the Subsidiaries, may become eligible for these other
    postretirement benefits, at various levels, in accordance with
    the applicable plans. Virtually all retirees, or their
    beneficiaries, contribute a portion of the total cost of
    postretirement medical benefits. Employees hired after 2003 are
    not eligible for any employer subsidy for postretirement medical
    benefits.

SFAS No. 87,  Employers  Accounting for
    Pensions  ( SFAS 87 ), as amended, established
    the accounting for pension plan obligations. Under SFAS 87,
    the projected pension benefit obligation ( PBO ) is
    defined as the actuarially calculated present value of vested
    and non-vested pension benefits accrued based on future salary
    levels. The accumulated pension benefit obligation
    ( ABO ) is the actuarial present value of vested and
    non-vested pension benefits accrued based on current salary
    levels. Obligations, both PBO and ABO, of the defined benefit
    pension plans are determined using a variety of actuarial
    assumptions, from which actual results may vary, as described
    below.

SFAS No. 106,  Employers  Accounting for
    Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions
     ( SFAS 106 ), as amended, established the
    accounting for expected postretirement plan benefit obligations
    ( EPBO ) which represents the actuarial present value
    of all other postretirement benefits expected to be paid after
    retirement to employees and their dependents. Unlike for
    pensions, the EPBO is not recorded in the financial statements
    but is used in measuring the periodic expense. The accumulated
    postretirement plan benefit obligations ( APBO )
    represents the actuarial present value of future other
    postretirement benefits attributed to employee services rendered
    through a particular date and is the valuation basis upon which
    liabilities are established. The APBO is determined using a
    variety of actuarial assumptions, from which actual results may
    vary, as described below.

F-28

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Prior to December 31, 2006, the funded status of the
    pension and other postretirement plans, which is the difference
    between the estimated fair value of plan assets and the PBO for
    pension plans and the APBO for other postretirement plans
    (collectively, the  Benefit Obligations ), were offset
    by the unrecognized actuarial gains or losses, prior service
    cost and transition obligations to determine prepaid or accrued
    benefit cost, as applicable. The net amount was recorded as a
    prepaid or accrued benefit cost, as applicable. Further, for
    pension plans, if the ABO exceeded the estimated fair value of
    the plan assets, that excess was recorded as an additional
    minimum pension liability with a corresponding intangible asset.
    Recognition of the intangible asset was limited to the amount of
    any unrecognized prior service cost. Any additional minimum
    pension liability in excess of the allowable intangible asset
    was charged, net of income tax, to accumulated other
    comprehensive income.

As described more fully in  Adoption of New Accounting
    Pronouncements,  effective December 31, 2006, the
    Company adopted SFAS No. 158,  Employers 
    Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
    Plans   an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87,
    88, 106, and SFAS No. 132(r)  ( SFAS
    158 ). Effective with the adoption of SFAS 158 on
    December 31, 2006, the Company recognizes the funded status
    of the Benefit Obligations for each of its plans on the
    consolidated balance sheet. The actuarial gains or losses, prior
    service costs and credits, and the remaining net transition
    asset or obligation that had not yet been included in net
    periodic benefit costs at December 31, 2006 are now
    charged, net of income tax, to accumulated other comprehensive
    income. Additionally, these changes eliminated the additional
    minimum pension liability provisions of SFAS 87.

Net periodic benefit cost is determined using management
    estimates and actuarial assumptions to derive service cost,
    interest cost, and expected return on plan assets for a
    particular year. Net periodic benefit cost also includes the
    applicable amortization of any prior service cost (credit)
    arising from the increase (decrease) in prior years 
    benefit costs due to plan amendments or initiation of new plans.
    These costs are amortized into net periodic benefit cost over
    the expected service years of employees whose benefits are
    affected by such plan amendments. Actual experience related to
    plan assets
     and/or  the
    benefit obligations may differ from that originally assumed when
    determining net periodic benefit cost for a particular period,
    resulting in gains or losses. To the extent such aggregate gains
    or losses exceed 10 percent of the greater of the benefit
    obligations or the market-related asset value of the plans, they
    are amortized into net periodic benefit cost over the expected
    service years of employees expected to receive benefits under
    the plans.

The obligations and expenses associated with these plans require
    an extensive use of assumptions such as the discount rate,
    expected rate of return on plan assets, rate of future
    compensation increases, healthcare cost trend rates, as well as
    assumptions regarding participant demographics such as rate and
    age of retirements, withdrawal rates and mortality. Management,
    in consultation with its external consulting actuarial firm,
    determines these assumptions based upon a variety of factors
    such as historical performance of the plan and its assets,
    currently available market and industry data, and expected
    benefit payout streams. The assumptions used may differ
    materially from actual results due to, among other factors,
    changing market and economic conditions and changes in
    participant demographics. These differences may have a
    significant effect on the Company s consolidated financial
    statements and liquidity.

The Subsidiaries also sponsor defined contribution savings and
    investment plans ( SIP ) for substantially all
    employees under which a portion of employee contributions are
    matched. Applicable matching contributions are made each payroll
    period. Accordingly, the Company recognizes compensation cost
    for current matching contributions. As all contributions are
    transferred currently as earned to the SIP trust, no liability
    for matching contributions is recognized in the consolidated
    balance sheets.

Stock-Based
    Compensation  

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted, using the
    modified prospective transition method, SFAS No. 123
    (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment
     ( SFAS 123(r) ). In accordance with this
    guidance the cost of all stock-based transactions is measured at
    fair value and recognized over the period during which a grantee
    is required to provide goods or services in exchange for the
    award. Although the terms of the Company s stock-

F-29

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

based plans do not accelerate vesting upon retirement, or the
    attainment of retirement eligibility, the requisite service
    period subsequent to attaining such eligibility is considered
    nonsubstantive. Accordingly, the Company recognizes compensation
    expense related to stock-based awards over the shorter of the
    requisite service period or the period to attainment of
    retirement eligibility. Prior to January 1, 2006, the
    Company recognized stock-based compensation over the vesting
    period of the grant or award, including grants or awards to
    retirement-eligible employees. An estimation of future
    forfeitures of stock-based awards is incorporated into the
    determination of compensation expense when recognizing expense
    over the requisite service period. Prior to January 1,
    2006, the Company recognized the corresponding reduction of
    stock compensation in the period in which the forfeitures
    occurred.

Stock-based awards granted after December 31, 2002 but
    prior to January 1, 2006 were accounted for on a
    prospective basis using the fair value accounting method
    prescribed by SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for
    Stock-Based Compensation  ( SFAS 123 ), as
    amended by SFAS No. 148,  Accounting for Stock-Based
    Compensation   Transition and Disclosure
     ( SFAS 148 ). The fair value method
    prescribed by SFAS 123 required compensation expense to be
    measured based on the fair value of the equity instrument at the
    grant or award date. Stock-based compensation was recognized
    over the vesting period of the grant or award, including grants
    or awards to retirement-eligible employees.

Foreign
    Currency  

Balance sheet accounts of foreign operations are translated at
    the exchange rates in effect at each year-end and income and
    expense accounts are translated at the average rates of exchange
    prevailing during the year. The local currencies of foreign
    operations generally are the functional currencies unless the
    local economy is highly inflationary. Translation adjustments
    are charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income
    or loss. Gains and losses from foreign currency transactions are
    reported as net investment gains (losses) in the period in which
    they occur.

Discontinued
    Operations  

The results of operations of a component of the Company that
    either has been disposed of or is classified as held-for-sale
    are reported in discontinued operations if the operations and
    cash flows of the component have been or will be eliminated from
    the ongoing operations of the Company as a result of the
    disposal transaction and the Company will not have any
    significant continuing involvement in the operations of the
    component after the disposal transaction.

Earnings
    Per Common Share  

Basic earnings per common share are computed based on the
    weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the
    period. The difference between the number of shares assumed
    issued and number of shares assumed purchased represents the
    dilutive shares. Diluted earnings per common share include the
    dilutive effect of the assumed: (i) exercise or issuance of
    stock-based awards using the treasury stock method;
    (ii) settlement of stock purchase contracts underlying
    common equity units using the treasury stock method; and
    (iii) settlement of accelerated common stock repurchase
    contract. Under the treasury stock method, exercise or issuance
    of stock- based awards and settlement of the stock purchase
    contracts underlying common equity units is assumed to occur
    with the proceeds used to purchase common stock at the average
    market price for the period. See Notes 13, 18 and 20.

Litigation
    Contingencies  

The Company is a party to a number of legal actions and is
    involved in a number of regulatory investigations. Given the
    inherent unpredictability of these matters, it is difficult to
    estimate the impact on the Company s financial position.
    Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has
    been incurred and the amount of the loss can

F-30

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

be reasonably estimated. On a quarterly and annual basis, the
    Company reviews relevant information with respect to liabilities
    for litigation, regulatory investigations and litigation-related
    contingencies to be reflected in the Company s consolidated
    financial statements. It is possible that an adverse outcome in
    certain of the Company s litigation and regulatory
    investigations, or the use of different assumptions in the
    determination of amounts recorded could have a material effect
    upon the Company s consolidated net income or cash flows in
    particular quarterly or annual periods.

Separate
    Accounts  

Separate accounts are established in conformity with insurance
    laws and are generally not chargeable with liabilities that
    arise from any other business of the Company. Separate account
    assets are subject to general account claims only to the extent
    the value of such assets exceeds the separate account
    liabilities. Assets within the Company s separate accounts
    primarily include: mutual funds, fixed maturity and equity
    securities, mortgage loans, derivatives, hedge funds, other
    limited partnership interests, short-term investments, and cash
    and cash equivalents. The Company reports separately, as assets
    and liabilities, investments held in separate accounts and
    liabilities of the separate accounts if (i) such separate
    accounts are legally recognized; (ii) assets supporting the
    contract liabilities are legally insulated from the
    Company s general account liabilities;
    (iii) investments are directed by the contractholder; and
    (iv) all investment performance, net of contract fees and
    assessments, is passed through to the contractholder. The
    Company reports separate account assets meeting such criteria at
    their fair value which is based on the estimated fair values of
    the underlying assets comprising the portfolios of an individual
    separate account. Investment performance (including investment
    income, net investment gains (losses) and changes in unrealized
    gains (losses)) and the corresponding amounts credited to
    contractholders of such separate accounts are offset within the
    same line in the consolidated statements of income. Separate
    accounts not meeting the above criteria are combined on a
     line-by-line 
    basis with the Company s general account assets,
    liabilities, revenues and expenses and the accounting for these
    investments is consistent with the methodologies described
    herein for similar financial instruments held within the general
    account.

The Company s revenues reflect fees charged to the separate
    accounts, including mortality charges, risk charges, policy
    administration fees, investment management fees and surrender
    charges.

Adoption
    of New Accounting Pronouncements   

Fair
    Value  

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted
    SFAS 157 which defines fair value, establishes a consistent
    framework for measuring fair value, establishes a fair value
    hierarchy based on the observability of inputs used to measure
    fair value, and requires enhanced disclosures about fair value
    measurements and applied the provisions of the statement
    prospectively to assets and liabilities measured at fair value.
    The adoption of SFAS 157 changed the valuation of certain
    freestanding derivatives by moving from a mid to bid pricing
    convention as it relates to certain volatility inputs as well as
    the addition of liquidity adjustments and adjustments for risks
    inherent in a particular input or valuation technique. The
    adoption of SFAS 157 also changed the valuation of the
    Company s embedded derivatives, most significantly the
    valuation of embedded derivatives associated with certain riders
    on variable annuity contracts. The change in valuation of
    embedded derivatives associated with riders on annuity contracts
    resulted from the incorporation of risk margins associated with
    non capital market inputs and the inclusion of the
    Company s own credit standing in their valuation. At
    January 1, 2008, the impact of adopting SFAS 157 on
    assets and liabilities measured at estimated fair value was
    $30 million ($19 million, net of income tax) and was
    recognized as a change in estimate in the accompanying
    consolidated statement of income where it was presented in the
    respective income statement caption to which the item measured
    at estimated fair value is presented. There were no significant
    changes in estimated fair value of items measured at fair value
    and reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
    The addition of risk margins and the Company s own credit
    spread in the valuation of embedded derivatives associated with
    annuity contracts may result in significant volatility in the
    Company s

F-31

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

consolidated net income in future periods. Note 24 presents
    the estimated fair value of all assets and liabilities required
    to be measured at estimated fair value as well as the expanded
    fair value disclosures required by SFAS 157.

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,  The
    Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
     ( SFAS 159 ). SFAS 159 permits entities
    the option to measure most financial instruments and certain
    other items at fair value at specified election dates and to
    recognize related unrealized gains and losses in earnings. The
    fair value option is applied on an
     instrument-by-instrument 
    basis upon adoption of the standard, upon the acquisition of an
    eligible financial asset, financial liability or firm commitment
    or when certain specified reconsideration events occur. The fair
    value election is an irrevocable election. Effective
    January 1, 2008, the Company elected the fair value option
    on fixed maturity and equity securities backing certain pension
    products sold in Brazil. Such securities will now be presented
    as trading securities in accordance with SFAS 115 on the
    consolidated balance sheet with subsequent changes in estimated
    fair value recognized in net investment income. Previously,
    these securities were accounted for as available-for-sale
    securities in accordance with SFAS 115 and unrealized gains
    and losses on these securities were recorded as a separate
    component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The
    Company s insurance joint venture in Japan also elected the
    fair value option for certain of its existing single premium
    deferred annuities and the assets supporting such liabilities.
    The fair value option was elected to achieve improved reporting
    of the asset/liability matching associated with these products.
    Adoption of SFAS 159 by the Company and its Japanese joint
    venture resulted in an increase in retained earnings of
    $27 million, net of income tax, at January 1, 2008.
    The election of the fair value option resulted in the
    reclassification of $10 million, net of income tax, of net
    unrealized gains from accumulated other comprehensive income
    (loss) to retained earnings on January 1, 2008.

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted FASB Staff
    Position ( FSP )
     No. FAS 157-1, 
     Application of FASB Statement No. 157 to FASB Statement
    No. 13 and Other Accounting Pronouncements That Address
    Fair Value Measurements for Purposes of Lease Classification or
    Measurement under Statement 13
      ( FSP 157-1 ). 
     FSP 157-1 
    amends SFAS 157 to provide a scope out exception for lease
    classification and measurement under SFAS No. 13,
     Accounting for Leases . The Company also adopted FSP
     No. FAS 157-2, 
     Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157  which
    delays the effective date of SFAS 157 for certain
    nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are recorded at fair
    value on a nonrecurring basis. The effective date is delayed
    until January 1, 2009 and impacts balance sheet items
    including nonfinancial assets and liabilities in a business
    combination and the impairment testing of goodwill and
    long-lived assets.

Effective September 30, 2008, the Company adopted FSP
     No. FAS 157-3, 
     Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the
    Market for That Asset is Not Active
      ( FSP 157-3 ). 
     FSP 157-3 
    provides guidance on how a company s internal cash flow and
    discount rate assumptions should be considered in the
    measurement of fair value when relevant market data does not
    exist, how observable market information in an inactive market
    affects fair value measurement and how the use of market quotes
    should be considered when assessing the relevance of observable
    and unobservable data available to measure fair value. The
    adoption of
     FSP 157-3 
    did not have a material impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Investments  

Effective December 31, 2008, the Company adopted FSP
     No. FAS 140-4 
    and
     FIN 46(r)-8, 
     Disclosures by Public Entities (Enterprises) about Transfers
    of Financial Assets and Interests in Variable Interest Entities
      ( FSP 140-4 
    and
     FIN 46(r)-8 ). 
     FSP 140-4 
    and
     FIN 46(r)-8 
    requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures
    about a transferors  continuing involvement in transferred
    financial assets and involvement in VIE. The exact nature of the
    additional required VIE disclosures vary and depend on whether
    or not the VIE is a qualifying special-purpose entity
    ( QSPE ). For VIEs that are QSPEs, the additional
    disclosures are only required for a non-transferor sponsor
    holding a variable interest or a non-transferor servicer holding
    a significant variable interest. For VIEs that are not QSPEs,
    the additional disclosures are only required if the Company is
    the primary beneficiary, and

F-32

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

if not the primary beneficiary, only if the Company holds a
    significant variable interest or is the sponsor. The Company
    provided all of the material required disclosures in its
    consolidated financial statements.

Effective December 31, 2008, the Company adopted FSP
     No. EITF 99-20-1, 
     Amendments to the Impairment Guidance of EITF Issue
     No. 99-20 
     ( FSP
     EITF 99-20-1 ). 
    FSP
     EITF 99-20-1 
    amends the guidance in EITF Issue
     No. 99-20, 
     Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased
    Beneficial Interests and Beneficial Interests That Continue to
    Be Held by a Transferor in Securitized Financial Assets,  to
    more closely align the guidance to determine whether an
    other-than-temporary impairment has occurred for a beneficial
    interest in a securitized financial asset with the guidance in
    SFAS 115 for debt securities classified as
    available-for-sale or held-to-maturity. The adoption of FSP
     EITF 99-20-1 
    did not have an impact on the Company s consolidated
    financial statements.

Derivative
    Financial Instruments  

Effective December 31, 2008, the Company adopted FSP
     No. FAS 133-1 
    and
     FIN 45-4, 
     Disclosures about Credit Derivatives and Certain
    Guarantees   An Amendment of FASB Statement
    No. 133 and FASB Interpretation No. 45; and
    Clarification of the Effective Date of FASB Statement
    No. 161
      ( FSP 133-1 
    and
     FIN 45-4 ). 
     FSP 133-1 
    and
     FIN 45-4 
    amends SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative
    Instruments and Hedging Activities
     ( SFAS 133 ) to require certain enhanced
    disclosures by sellers of credit derivatives by requiring
    additional information about the potential adverse effects of
    changes in their credit risk, financial performance, and cash
    flows. It also amends FIN No. 45,  Guarantor s
    Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including
    Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others   An
    Interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57, and 107 and
    Rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34 
    ( FIN 45 ), to require an additional disclosure
    about the current status of the payment/performance risk of a
    guarantee. The Company provided all of the material required
    disclosures in its consolidated financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted
    SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No.
     E-23, 
     Clarification of the Application of the Shortcut Method
     ( Issue
     E-23 ). 
    Issue  E-23 
    amended SFAS 133 by permitting interest rate swaps to have
    a non-zero fair value at inception when applying the shortcut
    method of assessing hedge effectiveness, as long as the
    difference between the transaction price (zero) and the fair
    value (exit price), as defined by SFAS 157, is solely
    attributable to a bid-ask spread. In addition, entities are not
    precluded from applying the shortcut method of assessing hedge
    effectiveness in a hedging relationship of interest rate risk
    involving an interest bearing asset or liability in situations
    where the hedged item is not recognized for accounting purposes
    until settlement date as long as the period between trade date
    and settlement date of the hedged item is consistent with
    generally established conventions in the marketplace. The
    adoption of Issue
     E-23  did not
    have an impact on the Company s consolidated financial
    statements.

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted
    prospectively SFAS No. 155,  Accounting for Certain
    Hybrid Instruments  ( SFAS 155 ).
    SFAS 155 amends SFAS 133 and SFAS No. 140,
     Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets
    and Extinguishments of Liabilities
     ( SFAS 140 ). SFAS 155 allows financial
    instruments that have embedded derivatives to be accounted for
    as a whole, eliminating the need to bifurcate the derivative
    from its host, if the holder elects to account for the whole
    instrument on a fair value basis. In addition, among other
    changes, SFAS 155:

(i) 

clarifies which interest-only strips and principal-only strips
    are not subject to the requirements of SFAS 133;

(ii) 

establishes a requirement to evaluate interests in securitized
    financial assets to identify interests that are freestanding
    derivatives or that are hybrid financial instruments that
    contain an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation;

(iii) 

clarifies that concentrations of credit risk in the form of
    subordination are not embedded derivatives; and

F-33

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(iv) 

amends SFAS 140 to eliminate the prohibition on a QSPE from
    holding a derivative financial instrument that pertains to a
    beneficial interest other than another derivative financial
    interest.

The adoption of SFAS 155 did not have a material impact on
    the Company s consolidated financial statements.

Effective October 1, 2006, the Company adopted
    SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No. B40,  Embedded
    Derivatives: Application of Paragraph 13(b) to Securitized
    Interests in Prepayable Financial Assets  ( Issue
    B40 ). Issue B40 clarifies that a securitized interest in
    prepayable financial assets is not subject to the conditions in
    paragraph 13(b) of SFAS 133, if it meets both of the
    following criteria: (i) the right to accelerate the
    settlement if the securitized interest cannot be controlled by
    the investor; and (ii) the securitized interest itself does
    not contain an embedded derivative (including an interest
    rate-related derivative) for which bifurcation would be required
    other than an embedded derivative that results solely from the
    embedded call options in the underlying financial assets. The
    adoption of Issue B40 did not have a material impact on the
    Company s consolidated financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted
    prospectively SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No. B38,
     Embedded Derivatives: Evaluation of Net Settlement with
    Respect to the Settlement of a Debt Instrument through Exercise
    of an Embedded Put Option or Call Option  ( Issue
    B38 ) and SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No. B39,
     Embedded Derivatives: Application of Paragraph 13(b) to
    Call Options That Are Exercisable Only by the Debtor
     ( Issue B39 ). Issue B38 clarifies that the
    potential settlement of a debtor s obligation to a creditor
    occurring upon exercise of a put or call option meets the net
    settlement criteria of SFAS 133. Issue B39 clarifies that
    an embedded call option, in which the underlying is an interest
    rate or interest rate index, that can accelerate the settlement
    of a debt host financial instrument should not be bifurcated and
    fair valued if the right to accelerate the settlement can be
    exercised only by the debtor (issuer/borrower) and the investor
    will recover substantially all of its initial net investment.
    The adoption of Issues B38 and B39 did not have a material
    impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.

Income
    Taxes  

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FIN 48.
    FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income
    tax recognized in a company s financial statements.
    FIN 48 requires companies to determine whether it is
     more likely than not  that a tax position will be
    sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities
    before any part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial
    statements. It also provides guidance on the recognition,
    measurement, and classification of income tax uncertainties,
    along with any related interest and penalties. Previously
    recorded income tax benefits that no longer meet this standard
    are required to be charged to earnings in the period that such
    determination is made.

As a result of the implementation of FIN 48, the Company
    recognized a $35 million increase in the liability for
    unrecognized tax benefits and a $9 million decrease in the
    interest liability for unrecognized tax benefits, as well as a
    $17 million increase in the liability for unrecognized tax
    benefits and a $5 million increase in the interest
    liability for unrecognized tax benefits which are included in
    liabilities of subsidiaries held-for-sale. The corresponding
    reduction to the January 1, 2007 balance of retained
    earnings was $37 million, net of $11 million of
    minority interest included in liabilities of subsidiaries
    held-for-sale. See also Note 15.

Insurance
    Contracts  

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted
     SOP 05-1 
    which provides guidance on accounting by insurance enterprises
    for DAC on internal replacements of insurance and investment
    contracts other than those specifically described in
    SFAS No. 97,  Accounting and Reporting by Insurance
    Enterprises for Certain Long-Duration Contracts and for Realized
    Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments.
      SOP 05-1 
    defines an internal replacement and is effective for internal
    replacements occurring in fiscal years beginning after
    December 15, 2006. In addition, in February 2007, the
    American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
    ( AICPA ) issued related

F-34

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Technical Practice Aids ( TPAs ) to provide further
    clarification of
     SOP 05-1. 
    The TPAs became effective concurrently with the adoption of
     SOP 05-1. 

As a result of the adoption of
     SOP 05-1 
    and the related TPAs, if an internal replacement modification
    substantially changes a contract, then the DAC is written off
    immediately through income and any new deferrable costs
    associated with the new replacement are deferred. If a contract
    modification does not substantially change the contract, the DAC
    amortization on the original contract will continue and any
    acquisition costs associated with the related modification are
    immediately expensed.

The adoption of
     SOP 05-1 
    and the related TPAs resulted in a reduction to DAC and VOBA on
    January 1, 2007 and an acceleration of the amortization
    period relating primarily to the Company s group life and
    health insurance contracts that contain certain rate reset
    provisions. Prior to the adoption of
     SOP 05-1, 
    DAC on such contracts was amortized over the expected renewable
    life of the contract. Upon adoption of
     SOP 05-1, 
    DAC on such contracts is to be amortized over the rate reset
    period. The impact as of January 1, 2007 was a cumulative
    effect adjustment of $292 million, net of income tax of
    $161 million, which was recorded as a reduction to retained
    earnings.

Defined
    Benefit and Other Postretirement Plans  

Effective December 31, 2006, the Company adopted
    SFAS 158. The pronouncement revises financial reporting
    standards for defined benefit pension and other postretirement
    benefit plans by requiring the:

(i) 

recognition in the statement of financial position of the funded
    status of defined benefit plans measured as the difference
    between the estimated fair value of plan assets and the benefit
    obligation, which is the projected benefit obligation for
    pension plans and the accumulated postretirement benefit
    obligation for other postretirement benefit plans;

(ii) 

recognition as an adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive
    income (loss), net of income tax, those amounts of actuarial
    gains and losses, prior service costs and credits, and net asset
    or obligation at transition that have not yet been included in
    net periodic benefit costs as of the end of the year of adoption;

(iii) 

recognition of subsequent changes in funded status as a
    component of other comprehensive income;

(iv) 

measurement of benefit plan assets and obligations as of the
    date of the statement of financial position; and

(v) 

disclosure of additional information about the effects on the
    employer s statement of financial position.

The adoption of SFAS 158 resulted in a reduction of
    $744 million, net of income tax, to accumulated other
    comprehensive income, which is included as a component of total
    consolidated stockholders  equity. As the Company s
    measurement date for its pension and other postretirement
    benefit plans is already December 31 there was no impact of
    adoption due to changes in measurement date. See also
     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Critical
    Accounting Estimates  and Note 17.

Stock
    Compensation Plans  

As described previously, effective January 1, 2006, the
    Company adopted SFAS 123(r) including supplemental
    application guidance issued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
    Commission in Staff Accounting Bulletin ( SAB )
    No. 107,  Share Based Payment  using the modified
    prospective transition method. In accordance with the modified
    prospective transition method, results for prior periods have
    not been restated. SFAS 123(r) requires that the cost of
    all stock-based transactions be measured at fair value and
    recognized over the period during which a grantee is required to
    provide goods or services in exchange for the award. The Company
    had previously adopted the fair value method of accounting for
    stock-based awards as prescribed by SFAS 123 on a
    prospective basis effective January 1, 2003. The Company
    did not modify the substantive terms of any existing awards
    prior to adoption of SFAS 123(r).

F-35

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Under the modified prospective transition method, compensation
    expense recognized during the year ended December 31, 2006
    includes: (a) compensation expense for all stock-based
    awards granted prior to, but not yet vested as of
    January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value
    estimated in accordance with the original provisions of
    SFAS 123, and (b) compensation expense for all
    stock-based awards granted beginning January 1, 2006, based
    on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the
    provisions of SFAS 123(r).

The adoption of SFAS 123(r) did not have a significant
    impact on the Company s financial position or results of
    operations as all stock-based awards accounted for under the
    intrinsic value method prescribed by APB 25 had vested prior to
    the adoption date and the Company had adopted the fair value
    recognition provisions of SFAS 123 on January 1, 2003.

SFAS 123 allowed forfeitures of stock-based awards to be
    recognized as a reduction of compensation expense in the period
    in which the forfeiture occurred. Upon adoption of
    SFAS 123(r), the Company changed its policy and now
    incorporates an estimate of future forfeitures into the
    determination of compensation expense when recognizing expense
    over the requisite service period. The impact of this change in
    accounting policy was not significant to the Company s
    financial position or results of operations as of the date of
    adoption.

Additionally, for awards granted after adoption, the Company
    changed its policy from recognizing expense for stock-based
    awards over the requisite service period to recognizing such
    expense over the shorter of the requisite service period or the
    period to attainment of retirement-eligibility. The pro forma
    impact of this change in expense recognition policy for
    stock-based compensation is detailed in Note 18.

Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(r), the Company presented
    tax benefits of deductions resulting from the exercise of stock
    options within operating cash flows in the consolidated
    statements of cash flows. SFAS 123(r) requires tax benefits
    resulting from tax deductions in excess of the compensation cost
    recognized for those options be classified and reported as a
    financing cash inflow upon adoption of SFAS 123(r).

Other
    Pronouncements  

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted FSP
     No. FIN 39-1, 
     Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39
      ( FSP 39-1 ). 
     FSP 39-1 
    amends FASB Interpretation No. 39,  Offsetting of Amounts
    Related to Certain Contracts  ( FIN 39 ), to
    permit a reporting entity to offset fair value amounts
    recognized for the right to reclaim cash collateral (a
    receivable) or the obligation to return cash collateral (a
    payable) against fair value amounts recognized for derivative
    instruments executed with the same counterparty under the same
    master netting arrangement that have been offset in accordance
    with FIN 39.
     FSP 39-1 
    also amends FIN 39 for certain terminology modifications.
    Upon adoption of
     FSP 39-1, 
    the Company did not change its accounting policy of not
    offsetting fair value amounts recognized for derivative
    instruments under master netting arrangements. The adoption of
     FSP 39-1 
    did not have an impact on the Company s consolidated
    financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted
    SAB No. 109,  Written Loan Commitments Recorded at
    Fair Value through Earnings  ( SAB 109 ),
    which amends SAB No. 105,  Application of Accounting
    Principles to Loan Commitments . SAB 109 provides
    guidance on (i) incorporating expected net future cash
    flows when related to the associated servicing of a loan when
    measuring fair value; and (ii) broadening the SEC
    staff s view that internally-developed intangible assets
    should not be recorded as part of the fair value of a derivative
    loan commitment or to written loan commitments that are
    accounted for at fair value through earnings.
    Internally-developed intangible assets are not considered a
    component of the related instruments. The adoption of
    SAB 109 did not have an impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted Emerging
    Issues Task Force ( EITF ) Issue
     No. 07-6, 
     Accounting for the Sale of Real Estate When the Agreement
    Includes a Buy-Sell Clause
      ( EITF 07-6 ) 
    prospectively.
     EITF 07-6 
    addresses whether the existence of a buy-sell arrangement would
    preclude partial sales treatment when real estate is sold to a
    jointly owned entity.
     EITF 07-6 
    concludes that the existence of a buy-sell

F-36

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

clause does not necessarily preclude partial sale treatment
    under current guidance. The adoption of
     EITF 07-6 
    did not have a material impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FSP
     No. EITF 00-19-2, 
     Accounting for Registration Payment Arrangements
     ( FSP
     EITF 00-19-2 ). 
    FSP
     EITF 00-19-2 
    specifies that the contingent obligation to make future payments
    or otherwise transfer consideration under a registration payment
    arrangement should be separately recognized and measured in
    accordance with SFAS No. 5,  Accounting for
    Contingencies. T he adoption of FSP
     EITF 00-19-2 
    did not have an impact on the Company s consolidated
    financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FSP
     No. FAS 13-2, 
     Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of
    Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged
    Lease Transaction
      ( FSP 13-2 ). 
     FSP 13-2 
    amends SFAS No. 13,  Accounting for Leases , to
    require that a lessor review the projected timing of income tax
    cash flows generated by a leveraged lease annually or more
    frequently if events or circumstances indicate that a change in
    timing has occurred or is projected to occur. In addition,
     FSP 13-2 
    requires that the change in the net investment balance resulting
    from the recalculation be recognized as a gain or loss from
    continuing operations in the same line item in which leveraged
    lease income is recognized in the year in which the assumption
    is changed. The adoption of
     FSP 13-2 
    did not have a material impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted
    SFAS No. 156,  Accounting for Servicing of Financial
    Assets   an amendment of FASB Statement
    No. 140  ( SFAS 156 ). Among other
    requirements, SFAS 156 requires an entity to recognize a
    servicing asset or servicing liability each time it undertakes
    an obligation to service a financial asset by entering into a
    servicing contract in certain situations. The adoption of
    SFAS 156 did not have an impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Effective November 15, 2006, the Company adopted
    SAB No. 108,  Considering the Effects of Prior Year
    Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year
    Financial Statements  ( SAB 108 ).
    SAB 108 provides guidance on how prior year misstatements
    should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current
    year financial statements for purposes of assessing materiality.
    SAB 108 requires that registrants quantify errors using
    both a balance sheet and income statement approach and evaluate
    whether either approach results in quantifying a misstatement
    that, when relevant quantitative and qualitative factors are
    considered, is material. SAB 108 permits companies to
    initially apply its provisions by either restating prior
    financial statements or recording a cumulative effect adjustment
    to the carrying values of assets and liabilities as of
    January 1, 2006 with an offsetting adjustment to retained
    earnings for errors that were previously deemed immaterial but
    are material under the guidance in SAB 108. The adoption of
    SAB 108 did not have a material impact on the
    Company s consolidated financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted
    prospectively EITF Issue
     No. 05-7, 
     Accounting for Modifications to Conversion Options Embedded
    in Debt Instruments and Related Issues
      ( EITF 05-7 ). 
     EITF 05-7 
    provides guidance on whether a modification of conversion
    options embedded in debt results in an extinguishment of that
    debt. In certain situations, companies may change the terms of
    an embedded conversion option as part of a debt modification.
    The EITF concluded that the change in the fair value of an
    embedded conversion option upon modification should be included
    in the analysis of EITF Issue
     No. 96-19, 
     Debtor s Accounting for a Modification or Exchange of
    Debt Instruments , to determine whether a modification or
    extinguishment has occurred and that a change in the fair value
    of a conversion option should be recognized upon the
    modification as a discount (or premium) associated with the
    debt, and an increase (or decrease) in additional paid-in
    capital. The adoption of
     EITF 05-7 
    did not have a material impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted EITF Issue
     No. 05-8, 
     Income Tax Consequences of Issuing Convertible Debt with a
    Beneficial Conversion Feature
      ( EITF 05-8 ). 
     EITF 05-8 
    concludes that: (i) the issuance of convertible debt with a
    beneficial conversion feature results in a basis difference that
    should be accounted for as a

F-37

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

temporary difference; and (ii) the establishment of the
    deferred tax liability for the basis difference should result in
    an adjustment to additional paid-in capital.
     EITF 05-8 
    was applied retrospectively for all instruments with a
    beneficial conversion feature accounted for in accordance with
    EITF Issue
     No. 98-5, 
     Accounting for Convertible Securities with Beneficial
    Conversion Features or Contingently Adjustable Conversion
    Ratios , and EITF Issue
     No. 00-27, 
     Application of Issue
     No. 98-5 
    to Certain Convertible Instruments. T he adoption of
     EITF 05-8 
    did not have a material impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted
    SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error
    Corrections, a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB
    Statement No. 3  ( SFAS 154 ).
    SFAS 154 requires retrospective application to prior
    periods  financial statements for a voluntary change in
    accounting principle unless it is deemed impracticable. It also
    requires that a change in the method of depreciation,
    amortization, or depletion for long-lived, non-financial assets
    be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate rather than
    a change in accounting principle. The adoption of SFAS 154
    did not have a material impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Future
    Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements   

Business
    Combinations  

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141
    (revised 2007),  Business Combinations   A
    Replacement of FASB Statement No. 141
     ( SFAS 141(r) ) and SFAS No. 160,
     Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
    Statements   An Amendment of ARB No. 51
     ( SFAS 160 ). Under SFAS 141(r) and
    SFAS 160:

All business combinations (whether full, partial or
     step  acquisitions) result in all assets and
    liabilities of an acquired business being recorded at fair
    value, with limited exceptions.

Acquisition costs are generally expensed as incurred;
    restructuring costs associated with a business combination are
    generally expensed as incurred subsequent to the acquisition
    date.

The fair value of the purchase price, including the issuance of
    equity securities, is determined on the acquisition date.

Certain acquired contingent liabilities are recorded at fair
    value at the acquisition date and subsequently measured at
    either the higher of such amount or the amount determined under
    existing guidance for non-acquired contingencies.

Changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income
    tax uncertainties after the acquisition date generally affect
    income tax expense.

Noncontrolling interests (formerly known as  minority
    interests ) are valued at fair value at the acquisition
    date and are presented as equity rather than liabilities.

When control is attained on previously noncontrolling interests,
    the previously held equity interests are remeasured at fair
    value and a gain or loss is recognized.

Purchases or sales of equity interests that do not result in a
    change in control are accounted for as equity transactions.

When control is lost in a partial disposition, realized gains or
    losses are recorded on equity ownership sold and the remaining
    ownership interest is remeasured and holding gains or losses are
    recognized.

The pronouncements are effective for fiscal years beginning on
    or after December 15, 2008 and apply prospectively to
    business combinations after that date. Presentation and
    disclosure requirements related to noncontrolling interests must
    be retrospectively applied. The Company will apply the guidance
    in SFAS 141(r) prospectively on its accounting for future
    acquisitions and does not expect the adoption of SFAS 160
    to have a material impact on the Company s consolidated
    financial statements.

F-38

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

In November 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus on EITF Issue
     No. 08-6, 
     Equity Method Investment Accounting Considerations
      ( EITF 08-6 ). 
     EITF 08-6 
    addresses a number of issues associated with the impact that
    SFAS 141(r) and SFAS 160 might have on the accounting
    for equity method investments, including how an equity method
    investment should initially be measured, how it should be tested
    for impairment, and how changes in classification from equity
    method to cost method should be treated.
     EITF 08-6 
    is effective prospectively for fiscal years beginning on or
    after December 15, 2008. The Company does not expect the
    adoption of
     EITF 08-6 
    to have a material impact on the Company s consolidated
    financial statements.

In November 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus on EITF Issue
     No. 08-7, 
     Accounting for Defensive Intangible Assets
      ( EITF 08-7 ). 
     EITF 08-7 
    requires that an acquired defensive intangible asset (i.e., an
    asset an entity does not intend to actively use, but rather,
    intends to prevent others from using) be accounted for as a
    separate unit of accounting at time of acquisition, not combined
    with the acquirer s existing intangible assets. In
    addition, the EITF concludes that a defensive intangible asset
    may not be considered immediately abandoned following its
    acquisition or have indefinite life. The Company will apply the
    guidance of
     EITF 08-7 
    prospectively to its intangible assets acquired after fiscal
    years beginning on or after December 15, 2008.

In April 2008, the FASB issued FSP
     No. FAS 142-3, 
     Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets
      ( FSP 142-3 ). 
     FSP 142-3 
    amends the factors that should be considered in developing
    renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful
    life of a recognized intangible asset under
    SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
     ( SFAS 142 ). This change is intended to
    improve the consistency between the useful life of a recognized
    intangible asset under SFAS 142 and the period of expected
    cash flows used to measure the fair value of the asset under
    SFAS 141(r) and other GAAP.
     FSP 142-3 
    is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years
    beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods
    within those fiscal years. The requirement for determining
    useful lives and related disclosures will be applied
    prospectively to intangible assets acquired as of, and
    subsequent to, the effective date.

Derivative
    Financial Instruments  

In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,
     Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Activities     An Amendment of FASB Statement
    No. 133  ( SFAS 161 ). SFAS 161
    requires enhanced qualitative disclosures about objectives and
    strategies for using derivatives, quantitative disclosures about
    fair value amounts of and gains and losses on derivative
    instruments, and disclosures about credit-risk-related
    contingent features in derivative agreements. SFAS 161 is
    effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and
    interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008. The
    Company will provide all of the material required disclosures in
    the appropriate future interim and annual periods.

Other
    Pronouncements  

In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP
     No. FAS 132(r)-1, 
     Employers  Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan
    Assets  ( FSP 132(r)-1 ). FSP 132(r)-1
    amends SFAS No. 132(r),  Employers  Disclosures
    about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits  to enhance
    the transparency surrounding the types of assets and associated
    risks in an employer s defined benefit pension or other
    postretirement plan. The FSP requires an employer to disclose
    information about the valuation of plan assets similar to that
    required under SFAS 157. FSP 132(r)-1 is effective for
    fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009. The Company
    will provide all of the material required disclosures in the
    appropriate future annual period.

In September 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus on EITF Issue
     No. 08-5, 
     Issuer s Accounting for Liabilities Measured at Fair
    Value with a Third-Party Credit Enhancement
      ( EITF 08-5 ). 
     EITF 08-5 
    concludes that an issuer of a liability with a third-party
    credit enhancement should not include the effect of the credit
    enhancement in the fair value measurement of the liability. In
    addition,
     EITF 08-5 
    requires disclosures about the existence of any third-party
    credit enhancement related to liabilities that are measured at
    fair value.
     EITF 08-5 
    is effective beginning in the first reporting period after
    December 15, 2008 and will be applied prospectively, with
    the effect of initial

F-39

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

application included in the change in fair value of the
    liability in the period of adoption. The Company does not expect
    the adoption of
     EITF 08-5 
    to have a material impact on the Company s consolidated
    financial statements.

In June 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus on EITF Issue
     No. 07-5, 
     Determining Whether an Instrument (or Embedded Feature) Is
    Indexed to an Entity s Own Stock
      ( EITF 07-5 ). 
     EITF 07-5 
    provides a framework for evaluating the terms of a particular
    instrument and whether such terms qualify the instrument as
    being indexed to an entity s own stock.
     EITF 07-5 
    is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years
    beginning after December 15, 2008 and must be applied by
    recording a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance
    of retained earnings at the date of adoption. The Company does
    not expect the adoption of
     EITF 07-5 
    to have a material impact on its consolidated financial
    statements.

In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP
     No. FAS 140-3, 
     Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets and Repurchase
    Financing Transactions
      ( FSP 140-3 ). 
     FSP 140-3 
    provides guidance for evaluating whether to account for a
    transfer of a financial asset and repurchase financing as a
    single transaction or as two separate transactions.
     FSP 140-3 
    is effective prospectively for financial statements issued for
    fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The Company
    does not expect the adoption of
     FSP 140-3 
    to have a material impact on its consolidated financial
    statements.

2.    

Acquisitions
    and Dispositions  

Disposition
    of Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated   

On September 12, 2008, the Company completed a tax-free
    split-off of its majority-owned subsidiary, Reinsurance Group of
    America, Incorporated ( RGA ). The Company and RGA
    entered into a recapitalization and distribution agreement,
    pursuant to which the Company agreed to divest substantially all
    of its 52% interest in RGA to the Company s stockholders.
    The split-off was effected through the following:

A recapitalization of RGA common stock into two classes of
    common stock   RGA Class A common stock and RGA
    Class B common stock. Pursuant to the terms of the
    recapitalization, each outstanding share of RGA common stock,
    including the 32,243,539 shares of RGA common stock
    beneficially owned by the Company and its subsidiaries, was
    reclassified as one share of RGA Class A common stock.
    Immediately thereafter, the Company and its subsidiaries
    exchanged 29,243,539 shares of its RGA Class A common
    stock   which represented all of the RGA Class A
    common stock beneficially owned by the Company and its
    subsidiaries other than 3,000,000 shares of RGA
    Class A common stock   with RGA for
    29,243,539 shares of RGA Class B common stock.

An exchange offer, pursuant to which the Company offered to
    acquire MetLife common stock from its stockholders in exchange
    for all of its 29,243,539 shares of RGA Class B common
    stock. The exchange ratio was determined based upon a
    ratio   as more specifically described in the exchange
    offering document   of the value of the MetLife and
    RGA shares during the
     three-day 
    period prior to the closing of the exchange offer. The
    3,000,000 shares of the RGA Class A common stock were
    not subject to the tax-free exchange.

As a result of completion of the recapitalization and exchange
    offer, the Company received from MetLife stockholders
    23,093,689 shares of the Company s common stock with a
    market value of $1,318 million and, in exchange, delivered
    29,243,539 shares of RGA s Class B common stock
    with a net book value of $1,716 million. The resulting loss
    on disposition, inclusive of transaction costs of
    $60 million, was $458 million. The
    3,000,000 shares of RGA Class A common stock retained
    by the Company are marketable equity securities which do not
    constitute significant continuing involvement in the operations
    of RGA; accordingly, they have been classified within equity
    securities in the consolidated financial statements of the
    Company at a cost basis of $157 million which is equivalent
    to the net book value of the shares. The cost basis will be
    adjusted to fair value at each subsequent reporting date. The
    Company has agreed to dispose of the remaining shares of RGA
    within the next five years. In connection with the
    Company s agreement to dispose of the remaining shares, the
    Company also

F-40

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

recognized, in its provision for income tax on continuing
    operations, a deferred tax liability of $16 million which
    represents the difference between the book and taxable basis of
    the remaining investment in RGA.

The impact of the disposition of the Company s investment
    in RGA is reflected in the Company s consolidated financial
    statements as discontinued operations. The disposition of RGA
    results in the elimination of the Company s Reinsurance
    segment. The Reinsurance segment was comprised of the results of
    RGA, which at disposition became discontinued operations of
    Corporate   Other, and the interest on economic
    capital, which has been reclassified to the continuing
    operations of Corporate   Other. See Note 23 for
    reclassifications related to discontinued operations and
    Note 22 for segment information.

Disposition
    of Texas Life Insurance Company   

MetLife, Inc. has entered into an agreement to sell Cova
    Corporation ( Cova ), the parent company of Texas Life
    Insurance Company, to a third party in the fourth quarter of
    2008. The transaction is expected to close in early 2009. As a
    result of the sale agreement, the Company recognized gains from
    discontinued operations of $37 million, net of income tax,
    in the fourth quarter of 2008. The gain was comprised of
    recognition of tax benefits of $65 million relating to the
    excess of outside tax basis of Cova over its financial reporting
    basis, offset by other than temporary impairments of
    $28 million, net of income tax, relating to Cova s
    investments. The Company has reclassified the assets and
    liabilities of Cova as held-for-sale and its operations into
    discontinued operations for all periods presented in the
    consolidated financial statements. See also Note 23.

2008
    Acquisitions   

During 2008, the Company made five acquisitions for
    $783 million. As a result of these acquisitions,
    MetLife s Institutional segment increased its product
    offering of dental and vision benefit plans, MetLife Bank within
    Corporate   Other entered the mortgage origination and
    servicing business and the International segment increased its
    presence in Mexico and Brazil. The acquisitions were each
    accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, and
    accordingly, commenced being included in the operating results
    of the Company upon their respective closing dates. Total
    consideration paid by the Company for these acquisitions
    consisted of $763 million in cash and $20 million in
    transaction costs. The net fair value of assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed totaled $527 million, resulting in
    goodwill of $256 million. Goodwill increased by
    $122 million, $73 million and $61 million in the
    International segment, Institutional segment and
    Corporate   Other, respectively. The goodwill is
    deductible for tax purposes. VOCRA, VOBA and other intangibles
    increased by $137 million, $7 million and
    $6 million, respectively, as a result of these
    acquisitions. Further information on VOBA, goodwill and VOCRA is
    provided in Notes 5, 6 and 7, respectively.

2007
    Acquisition and Disposition   

On June 28, 2007, the Company acquired the remaining 50%
    interest in a joint venture in Hong Kong, MetLife Fubon Limited
    ( MetLife Fubon ), for $56 million in cash,
    resulting in MetLife Fubon becoming a consolidated subsidiary of
    the Company. The transaction was treated as a step acquisition,
    and at June 30, 2007, total assets and liabilities of
    MetLife Fubon of $839 million and $735 million,
    respectively, were included in the Company s consolidated
    balance sheet. The Company s investment for the initial 50%
    interest in MetLife Fubon was $48 million. The Company used
    the equity method of accounting for such investment in MetLife
    Fubon. The Company s share of the joint venture s
    results for the six months ended June 30, 2007, was a loss
    of $3 million. The fair value of the assets acquired and
    the liabilities assumed in the step acquisition at June 30,
    2007, was $427 million and $371 million, respectively.
    No additional goodwill was recorded as a part of the step
    acquisition. As a result of this acquisition, additional VOBA
    and VODA of $45 million and $5 million, respectively,
    were recorded and both have a weighted average amortization
    period of 16 years. In June 2008, the Company revised the
    valuation of certain long-term liabilities, VOBA, and VODA based
    on new information received. As a result, the fair value of
    acquired insurance liabilities and VOBA were reduced by
    $5 million and $12 million, respectively, offset by an
    increase in

F-41

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

VODA of $7 million. The revised VOBA and VODA have a
    weighted average amortization period of 11 years. Further
    information on VOBA and VODA is described in Notes 5 and 7,
    respectively.

On June 1, 2007, the Company completed the sale of its
    Bermuda insurance subsidiary, MetLife International Insurance,
    Ltd. ( MLII ), to a third party for $33 million
    in cash consideration, resulting in a gain upon disposal of
    $3 million, net of income tax. The net assets of MLII at
    disposal were $27 million. A liability of $1 million
    was recorded with respect to a guarantee provided in connection
    with this disposition. Further information on guarantees is
    described in Note 16.

Other
    Acquisitions and Dispositions   

On July 1, 2005, the Company completed the acquisition of
    Travelers for $12.1 billion. The acquisition was accounted
    for using the purchase method of accounting. The net fair value
    of assets acquired and liabilities assumed totaled
    $7.8 billion, resulting in goodwill of $4.3 billion.
    The initial consideration paid by the Company in 2005 for the
    acquisition consisted of $10.9 billion in cash and
    22,436,617 shares of the Company s common stock with a
    market value of $1.0 billion to Citigroup and
    $100 million in other transaction costs. The Company
    revised the purchase price as a result of the finalization by
    both parties of their review of the June 30, 2005 financial
    statements and final resolution as to the interpretation of the
    provisions of the acquisition agreement which resulted in a
    payment of additional consideration of $115 million by the
    Company to Citigroup in 2006.

See Note 23 for information on the disposition of the
    annuities and pension businesses of MetLife Insurance Limited
    ( MetLife Australia ) and SSRM Holdings, Inc.

3.    

Investments  

Fixed
    Maturity and Equity Securities Available-for-Sale   

The following tables present the cost or amortized cost, gross
    unrealized gain and loss, estimated fair value of the
    Company s fixed maturity and equity securities, and the
    percentage that each sector represents by the respective total
    holdings at:

F-42

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(1)  

The Company classifies perpetual securities that have attributes
    of both debt and equity as fixed maturity securities if the
    security has a punitive interest rate
     step-up 
    feature as it believes in most instances this feature will
    compel the issuer to redeem the security at the specified call
    date. Perpetual securities that do not have a punitive interest
    rate  step-up 
    feature are classified as non-redeemable preferred stock. Many
    of such securities have been issued by
     non-U.S. 
    financial institutions that are accorded Tier 1 and Upper
    Tier 2 capital treatment by their respective regulatory
    bodies and are commonly referred to as  perpetual hybrid
    securities.  Perpetual hybrid securities classified as
    non-redeemable preferred stock held by the Company at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007 had an estimated fair value of
    $1,224 million and $2,051 million, respectively. In
    addition, the Company held $288 million and
    $923 million at estimated fair value, respectively, at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007 of other perpetual hybrid
    securities, primarily U.S. financial institutions, also included
    in non-redeemable preferred stock. Perpetual hybrid securities
    held by the Company and included within fixed maturity
    securities (primarily within foreign corporate securities) at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007 had an estimated fair value of
    $2,110 million and $3,896 million, respectively. In
    addition, the Company held $46 million and $57 million
    at estimated fair value, respectively, at December 31, 2008
    and 2007 of other perpetual hybrid securities, primarily U.S.
    financial institutions, included in fixed maturity securities. 

(2)  

At December 31, 2008 and 2007 the Company also held
    $2,052 million and $3,432 million at estimated fair
    value, respectively, of redeemable preferred stock which have
    stated maturity dates which are included within fixed maturity
    securities. These securities are primarily issued by U.S.
    financial institutions, have cumulative interest deferral
    features and are commonly referred to as  capital
    securities  within U.S. corporate securities. 

The Company held foreign currency derivatives with notional
    amounts of $9.1 billion and $9.2 billion to hedge the
    exchange rate risk associated with foreign denominated fixed
    maturity securities at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

Below Investment Grade or Non Rated Fixed Maturity
    Securities.  The Company held fixed maturity securities at
    estimated fair values that were below investment grade or not
    rated by an independent rating agency that totaled
    $12.4 billion and $17.4 billion at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively. These securities had net unrealized
    losses of $5,094 million and $103 million at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

F-43

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Non-Income Producing Fixed Maturity Securities.
     Non-income producing fixed maturity securities at estimated
    fair value were $75 million and $12 million at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Net unrealized
    gains (losses) associated with non-income producing fixed
    maturity securities were ($19) million and $11 million
    at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Enhanced by Financial
    Guarantee Insurers.  At December 31, 2008,
    $4.9 billion of the estimated fair value of the
    Company s fixed maturity securities were credit enhanced by
    financial guarantee insurers of which $2.0 billion,
    $2.0 billion and $0.9 billion, are included within
    state and political subdivision securities, U.S. corporate
    securities, and asset-backed securities, respectively, and 15%
    and 68% were guaranteed by financial guarantee insurers who were
    Aa and Baa rated, respectively. As described below, all of the
    asset-backed securities that are credit enhanced by financial
    guarantee insurers are asset-backed securities which are backed
    by sub-prime mortgage loans.

Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity Securities).
     The following section contains a summary of the
    concentrations of credit risk related to fixed maturity
    securities holdings.

The Company is not exposed to any concentrations of credit risk
    of any single issuer greater than 10% of the Company s
    stockholders  equity, other than securities of the
    U.S. government and certain U.S. government agencies.
    At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company s holdings
    in U.S. Treasury and agency fixed maturity securities at
    estimated fair value were $21.3 billion and
    $21.2 billion, respectively. As shown in the sector table
    above, at December 31, 2008 the Company s three
    largest exposures in its fixed maturity security portfolio were
    U.S. corporate fixed maturity securities (33.6%),
    residential mortgage-backed securities (19.2%), and foreign
    corporate securities (15.8%); and at December 31, 2007 were
    U.S. corporate fixed maturity securities (31.8%),
    residential mortgage-backed securities (23.7%), and foreign
    corporate securities (16.0%).

Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity
    Securities)   U.S. and Foreign Corporate
    Securities.  At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the
    Company s holdings in U.S. corporate and foreign
    corporate fixed maturity securities at estimated fair value were
    $93.0 billion and $111.1 billion, respectively. The
    Company maintains a diversified portfolio of corporate
    securities across industries and issuers. The portfolio does not
    have exposure to any single issuer in excess of 1% of total
    invested assets. The exposure to the largest single issuer of
    corporate fixed maturity securities held at December 31,
    2008 and 2007 was $1.5 billion and $1.2 billion,
    respectively. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the
    Company s combined holdings in the ten issuers to which it
    had the greatest exposure totaled $8.4 billion and
    $7.8 billion, respectively, the total of these ten issuers
    being less than 3% of the Company s total invested assets
    at such dates. The table below shows the major industry types
    that comprise the corporate fixed maturity holdings at:

F-44

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(1)  

Includes U.S. dollar-denominated debt obligations of foreign
    obligors, and other fixed maturity foreign investments. 

Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity
    Securities)   Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities.
     The Company s residential mortgage-backed securities
    consist of the following holdings at:

Collateralized mortgage obligations are a type of
    mortgage-backed security that creates separate pools or tranches
    of pass-through cash flows for different classes of bondholders
    with varying maturities. Pass-through mortgage-backed securities
    are a type of asset-backed security that is secured by a
    mortgage or collection of mortgages. The monthly mortgage
    payments from homeowners pass from the originating bank through
    an intermediary, such as a government agency or investment bank,
    which collects the payments, and for fee, remits or passes these
    payments through to the holders of the pass-through securities.

At December 31, 2008, the exposures in the Company s
    residential mortgage-backed securities portfolio consist of
    agency, prime, and alternative residential mortgage loans
    ( Alt-A ) securities of 68%, 23%, and 9% of the total
    holdings, respectively. At December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    $33.3 billion and $54.7 billion, respectively, or 92%
    and 99% respectively of the residential mortgage-backed
    securities were rated Aaa/AAA by Moody s Investors Service
    ( Moody s ), S P, or Fitch Ratings
    ( Fitch ). The majority of the agency residential
    mortgage-backed securities are guaranteed or otherwise supported
    by the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home
    Loan Mortgage Corporation or the Government National Mortgage
    Association. Prime residential mortgage lending includes the
    origination of residential mortgage loans to the most
    credit-worthy customers with high quality credit profiles. Alt-A
    residential mortgage loans are a classification of mortgage
    loans where the risk profile of the borrower falls between prime
    and sub-prime. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the
    Company s Alt-A residential mortgage-backed securities
    exposure was $3.4 billion and $6.3 billion,
    respectively, with an unrealized loss of $1,963 million and
    $139 million, respectively. At December 31, 2008 and
    December 31, 2007, $2.1 billion and $6.3 billion,
    respectively, or 63% and 99%, respectively, of the
    Company s Alt-A residential mortgage-backed securities were
    rated Aa/AA or better by Moody s, S P or Fitch. In
    December 2008, certain Alt-A residential mortgage-backed
    securities experienced ratings downgrades from investment grade
    to below investment grade, contributing to the decrease year
    over year cited above in those securities rated Aa/AA or better.
    At December 31, 2008 the Company s Alt-A holdings are
    distributed as follows: 23% 2007 vintage year, 25% 2006 vintage
    year; and 52% in the 2005 and prior vintage years. In January
    2009, Moody s revised its loss projections for Alt-A
    residential mortgage-backed securities, and the Company
    anticipates that Moody s will be downgrading virtually all
    2006 and 2007 vintage year Alt-A securities to below investment
    grade, which will increase the percentage of our Alt-A
    residential mortgage-backed securities portfolio that will be
    rated below investment grade. Vintage year refers to the year of
    origination and not to the year of purchase.

Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity
    Securities)   Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities.
     At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company s
    holdings in commercial mortgage-backed securities was
    $12.6 billion and $17.0 billion, respectively, at
    estimated fair value. At December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    $11.8 billion and $14.9 billion, respectively, of the
    estimated fair value, or 93% and 88%, respectively, of the
    commercial mortgage-backed securities were rated Aaa/AAA by
    Moody s, S P, or Fitch. At December 31, 2008, the
    rating distribution of

F-45

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

the Company s commercial mortgage-backed securities
    holdings was as follows: 93% Aaa, 4% Aa, 1% A, 1% Baa, and 1% Ba
    or below. At December 31, 2008, 84% of the holdings are in
    the 2005 and prior vintage years. At December 31, 2008, the
    Company had no exposure to CMBX securities and its holdings of
    commercial real estate collateralized debt obligations
    ( CRE-CDO ) securities was $121 million at
    estimated fair value.

Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity
    Securities)   Asset-Backed
    Securities.   At December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    the Company s holdings in asset-backed securities was
    $10.5 billion and $10.6 billion, respectively, at
    estimated fair value. The Company s asset-backed securities
    are diversified both by sector and by issuer. At
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, $7.9 billion and
    $5.7 billion, respectively, or 75% and 54%, respectively,
    of total asset-backed securities were rated Aaa/AAA by
    Moody s, S P or Fitch. At December 31, 2008, the
    largest exposures in the Company s asset-backed securities
    portfolio were credit card receivables, residential
    mortgage-backed securities backed by sub-prime mortgage loans,
    automobile receivables and student loan receivables of 49%, 10%,
    10% and 10% of the total holdings, respectively. Sub-prime
    mortgage lending is the origination of residential mortgage
    loans to customers with weak credit profiles. At
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company had exposure to
    fixed maturity securities backed by sub-prime mortgage loans
    with estimated fair values of $1.1 billion and
    $2.0 billion, respectively, and unrealized losses of
    $730 million and $198 million, respectively. At
    December 31, 2008, 37% of the asset-backed securities
    backed by sub-prime mortgage loans have been guaranteed by
    financial guarantee insurers, of which 19% and 37% were
    guaranteed by financial guarantee insurers who were Aa and Baa
    rated, respectively.

Concentrations of Credit Risk (Equity
    Securities).   The Company is not exposed to any
    concentrations of credit risk of any single issuer greater than
    10% of the Company s stockholders  equity in its
    equity securities holdings.

The amortized cost and estimated fair value of fixed maturity
    securities, by contractual maturity date (excluding scheduled
    sinking funds), are as follows:

Fixed maturity securities not due at a single maturity date have
    been included in the above table in the year of final
    contractual maturity. Actual maturities may differ from
    contractual maturities due to the exercise of prepayment options.

F-46

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Net
    Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses)   

The components of net unrealized investment gains (losses),
    included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), are
    as follows:

The changes in net unrealized investment gains (losses) are as
    follows:

F-47

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Unrealized
    Loss for Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities
    Available-for-Sale   

The following tables present the estimated fair value and gross
    unrealized loss of the Company s fixed maturity (aggregated
    by sector) and equity securities in an unrealized loss position,
    aggregated by length of time that the securities have been in a
    continuous unrealized loss position at:

F-48

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

F-49

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Aging
    of Gross Unrealized Loss for Fixed Maturity and Equity
    Securities Available-for-Sale   

The following tables present the cost or amortized cost, gross
    unrealized loss and number of securities for fixed maturity and
    equity securities, where the estimated fair value had declined
    and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%, or
    20% or more at:

F-50

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

As described more fully in Note 1, the Company performs a
    regular evaluation, on a
     security-by-security 
    basis, of its investment holdings in accordance with its
    impairment policy in order to evaluate whether such securities
    are other-than-temporarily impaired. One of the criteria which
    the Company considers in its other-than-temporary impairment
    analysis is its intent and ability to hold securities for a
    period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of their
    value to an amount equal to or greater than cost or amortized
    cost. The Company s intent and ability to hold securities
    considers broad portfolio management objectives such as
    asset/liability duration management, issuer and industry segment
    exposures, interest rate views and the overall total return
    focus. In following these portfolio management objectives,
    changes in facts and circumstances that were present in past
    reporting periods may trigger a decision to sell securities that
    were held in prior reporting periods. Decisions to sell are
    based on current conditions or the Company s need to shift
    the portfolio to maintain its portfolio management objectives
    including liquidity needs or duration targets on asset/liability
    managed portfolios. The Company attempts to anticipate these
    types of changes and if a sale decision has been made on an
    impaired security and that security is not expected to recover
    prior to the expected time of sale, the security will be deemed
    other-than-temporarily impaired in the period that the sale
    decision was made and an other-than-temporary impairment loss
    will be recognized.

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, $8.0 billion and
    $3.9 billion, respectively, of unrealized losses related to
    fixed maturity securities with an unrealized loss position of
    less than 20% of cost or amortized cost, which represented 9%
    and 4%, respectively, of the cost or amortized cost of such
    securities. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, $75 million
    and $316 million, respectively, of unrealized losses
    related to equity securities with an unrealized loss position of
    less than 20% of cost, which represented 13% and 10%,
    respectively, of the cost of such securities.

At December 31, 2008, $20.8 billion and
    $903 million of unrealized losses related to fixed maturity
    securities and equity securities, respectively, with an
    unrealized loss position of 20% or more of cost or amortized
    cost, which represented 38% and 43% of the cost or amortized
    cost of such fixed maturity securities and equity securities,

F-51

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

respectively. Of such unrealized losses of $20.8 billion
    and $903 million, $17.2 billion and $519 million
    related to fixed maturity securities and equity securities,
    respectively, that were in an unrealized loss position for a
    period of less than six months. At December 31, 2007,
    $402 million and $133 million of unrealized losses
    related to fixed maturity securities and equity securities,
    respectively, with an unrealized loss position of 20% or more of
    cost or amortized cost, which represented 28% and 31% of the
    cost or amortized cost of such fixed maturity securities and
    equity securities, respectively. Of such unrealized losses of
    $402 million and $133 million, $383 million and
    $133 million related to fixed maturity securities and
    equity securities, respectively, that were in an unrealized loss
    position for a period of less than six months.

The Company held 699 fixed maturity securities and 33 equity
    securities, each with a gross unrealized loss at
    December 31, 2008 of greater than $10 million. These
    699 fixed maturity securities represented 50% or
    $14.5 billion in the aggregate, of the gross unrealized
    loss on fixed maturity securities. These 33 equity securities
    represented 71% or $699 million in the aggregate, of the
    gross unrealized loss on equity securities. The Company held 23
    fixed maturity securities and six equity securities, each with a
    gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2007 of greater than
    $10 million. These 23 fixed maturity securities represented
    8% or $357 million in the aggregate, of the gross
    unrealized loss on fixed maturity securities. These six equity
    securities represented 20% or $90 million in the aggregate,
    of the gross unrealized loss on equity securities. The fixed
    maturity and equity securities, each with a gross unrealized
    loss greater than $10 million increased $14.7 billion
    during the year ended December 31, 2008. These securities
    were included in the regular evaluation of whether such
    securities are other-than-temporarily impaired. Based upon the
    Company s current evaluation of these securities in
    accordance with its impairment policy, the cause of the decline
    being primarily attributable to a rise in market yields caused
    principally by an extensive widening of credit spreads which
    resulted from a lack of market liquidity and a short-term market
    dislocation versus a long-term deterioration in credit quality,
    and the Company s current intent and ability to hold the
    fixed maturity and equity securities with unrealized losses for
    a period of time sufficient for them to recover, the Company has
    concluded that these securities are not other-than-temporarily
    impaired.

In the Company s impairment review process, the duration
    of, and severity of, an unrealized loss position, such as
    unrealized losses of 20% or more for equity securities, which
    was $903 million and $133 million at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively, is given greater weight and
    consideration, than for fixed maturity securities. An extended
    and severe unrealized loss position on a fixed maturity security
    may not have any impact on the ability of the issuer to service
    all scheduled interest and principal payments and the
    Company s evaluation of recoverability of all contractual
    cash flows, as well as the Company s ability and intent to
    hold the security, including holding the security until the
    earlier of a recovery in value, or until maturity. In contrast,
    for an equity security, greater weight and consideration is
    given by the Company to a decline in market value and the
    likelihood such market value decline will recover.

Equity securities with an unrealized loss of 20% or more for six
    months or greater was $384 million at December 31,
    2008, of which $382 million of the unrealized losses, or
    99%, are for non-redeemable preferred securities, of which,
    $377 million of the unrealized losses, or 99%, are for
    investment grade non-redeemable preferred securities. Of the
    $377 million of unrealized losses for investment grade
    non-redeemable preferred securities, $372 million of the
    unrealized losses, or 99%, was comprised of unrealized losses on
    investment grade financial services industry non-redeemable
    preferred securities, of which 85% are rated A or higher.

Equity securities with an unrealized loss of 20% or more for
    less than six months was $519 million at December 31,
    2008 of which $427 million of the unrealized losses, or
    82%, are for non-redeemable preferred securities, of which
    $421 million, of the unrealized losses, or 98% are for
    investment grade non-redeemable preferred securities. Of the
    $421 million of unrealized losses for investment grade
    non-redeemable preferred securities, $417 million of the
    unrealized losses, or 99%, was comprised of unrealized losses on
    investment grade financial services industry non-redeemable
    preferred securities, of which 81% are rated A or higher.

There were no equity securities with an unrealized loss of 20%
    or more for twelve months or greater.

F-52

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

In connection with the equity securities impairment review
    process during 2008, the Company evaluated its holdings in
    non-redeemable preferred securities, particularly those of
    financial services industry companies. The Company considered
    several factors including whether there has been any
    deterioration in credit of the issuer and the likelihood of
    recovery in value of non-redeemable preferred securities with a
    severe or an extended unrealized loss. With respect to common
    stock holdings, the Company considered the duration and severity
    of the securities in an unrealized loss position of 20% or more;
    and the duration of securities in an unrealized loss position of
    20% or less with in an extended unrealized loss position (i.e.,
    12 months or more).

At December 31, 2008, there are $903 million of equity
    securities with an unrealized loss of 20% or more, of which
    $809 million of the unrealized losses, or 90%, were for
    non-redeemable preferred securities. Through December 31,
    2008, $798 million of the unrealized losses of 20% or more,
    or 99%, of the non-redeemable preferred securities were
    investment grade securities, of which, $789 million of the
    unrealized losses of 20% or more, or 99%, are investment grade
    financial services industry non-redeemable preferred securities;
    and all non-redeemable preferred securities with unrealized
    losses of 20% or more, regardless of rating, have not deferred
    any dividend payments.

Also, the Company believes the unrealized loss position is not
    necessarily predictive of the ultimate performance of these
    securities, and with respect to fixed maturity securities, it
    has the ability and intent to hold until the earlier of the
    recovery in value, or until maturity, and with respect to equity
    securities, it has the ability and intent to hold until the
    recovery in value. Future other-than-temporary impairments will
    depend primarily on economic fundamentals, issuer performance,
    changes in collateral valuation, changes in interest rates, and
    changes in credit spreads. If economic fundamentals and other of
    the above factors continue to deteriorate, additional
    other-than-temporary impairments may be incurred in upcoming
    quarters.

F-53

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company s gross
    unrealized losses related to its fixed maturity and equity
    securities of $29.8 billion and $4.7 billion,
    respectively, were concentrated, calculated as a percentage of
    gross unrealized loss, as follows:

F-54

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Net
    Investment Gains (Losses)   

The components of net investment gains (losses) are as follows:

Proceeds from sales or disposals of fixed maturity and equity
    securities and the components of fixed maturity and equity
    securities net investment gains (losses) are as follows:

(1)  

Other-than credit-related writedowns include items such as
    equity securities where the primary reason for the writedown was
    the severity and/or the duration of an unrealized loss position
    and fixed maturity securities where an interest-rate related
    writedown was taken. 

The Company periodically disposes of fixed maturity and equity
    securities at a loss. Generally, such losses are insignificant
    in amount or in relation to the cost basis of the investment,
    are attributable to declines in fair value occurring in the
    period of the disposition or are as a result of
    management s decision to sell securities based on current
    conditions or the Company s need to shift the portfolio to
    maintain its portfolio management objectives.

Losses from fixed maturity and equity securities deemed
    other-than-temporarily impaired, included within net investment
    gains (losses), were $1,726 million, $97 million and
    $80 million for the years ended December 31, 2008,
    2007 and 2006, respectively. The substantial increase in 2008
    over 2007 was driven by writedowns totaling $1,014 million
    of financial services industry securities holdings, comprised of
    $673 million of fixed maturity securities and
    $341 million of equity securities.

Overall, of the $1,296 million of fixed maturity security
    writedowns in 2008, $673 million were on financial services
    industry services holdings; $241 million were on
    communication and consumer industries holdings;

F-55

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

$164 million on asset-backed (substantially all are backed
    by or exposed to sub-prime mortgage loans) and below investment
    grade commercial mortgage-backed holdings; and $218 million
    in fixed maturity security holdings that the Company either
    lacked the intent to hold, or due to extensive credit spread
    widening, the Company was uncertain of its intent to hold these
    fixed maturity securities for a period of time sufficient to
    allow for recovery of the market value decline.

Included within the $430 million of writedowns on equity
    securities in 2008 are $341 million related to the
    financial services industry holdings, (of which,
    $90 million related to the financial services industry
    non-redeemable preferred securities) and $89 million across
    several industries including consumer, communications,
    industrial and utility.

Net
    Investment Income   

The components of net investment income are as follows:

Net investment income from other limited partnership interests,
    including hedge funds, represents distributions from other
    limited partnership interests accounted for under the cost
    method and equity in earnings from other limited partnership
    interests accounted for under the equity method. Overall for
    2008, the net amount recognized by the Company was a loss of
    ($170) million resulting principally from losses on equity
    method investments. Such earnings and losses recognized for
    other limited partnership interests are impacted by volatility
    in the equity and credit markets. Net investment income from
    trading securities includes interest and dividends earned on
    trading securities in addition to the net realized and
    unrealized gains (losses) recognized on trading securities and
    the short sale agreements liabilities. In 2008, unrealized
    losses recognized on trading securities, due to the volatility
    in the equity and credit markets, were in excess of interest and
    dividends earned.

F-56

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Securities
    Lending   

The Company participates in securities lending programs whereby
    blocks of securities, which are included in fixed maturity
    securities and short-term investments are loaned to third
    parties, primarily major brokerage firms and commercial banks.
    The Company generally obtains collateral in an amount equal to
    102% of the estimated fair value of the securities loaned.
    Securities with a cost or amortized cost of $20.8 billion
    and $41.1 billion and an estimated fair value of
    $22.9 billion and $42.1 billion were on loan under the
    program at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
    Securities loaned under such transactions may be sold or
    repledged by the transferee. The Company was liable for cash
    collateral under its control of $23.3 billion and
    $43.3 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. Of this $23.3 billion of cash collateral at
    December 31, 2008, $5.1 billion was on open terms,
    meaning that the related loaned security could be returned to
    the Company on the next business day requiring return of cash
    collateral, and $14.7 billion and $3.5 billion,
    respectively, were due within 30 days and 60 days. Of
    the $5.0 billion of estimated fair value of the securities
    related to the cash collateral on open at December 31,
    2008, $4.4 billion were U.S. Treasury and agency
    securities which, if put to the Company, can be immediately sold
    to satisfy the cash requirements. The remainder of the
    securities on loan are primarily U.S. Treasury and agency
    securities, and very liquid residential mortgage-backed
    securities. The estimated fair value of the reinvestment
    portfolio acquired with the cash collateral was
    $19.5 billion at December 31, 2008, and consisted
    principally of fixed maturity securities (including residential
    mortgage-backed, asset-backed, U.S. corporate and foreign
    corporate securities).

Security collateral of $279 million and $40 million on
    deposit from counterparties in connection with the securities
    lending transactions at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively may not be sold or repledged and is not reflected
    in the consolidated financial statements.

Assets
    on Deposit, Held in Trust and Pledged as
    Collateral   

The Company had investment assets on deposit with regulatory
    agencies with an estimated fair value of $1.3 billion and
    $1.8 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively, consisting primarily of fixed maturity and equity
    securities. The Company also held in trust cash and securities,
    primarily fixed maturity and equity securities with an estimated
    fair value of $9.3 billion and $5.9 billion at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, to satisfy
    collateral requirements. The Company has also pledged certain
    fixed maturity securities in support of the collateral financing
    arrangements described in Note 11.

The Company has pledged fixed maturity securities and mortgage
    loans in support of its debt and funding agreements with the
    Federal Home Loan Bank of New York ( FHLB of NY ) and
    the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston ( FHLB of
    Boston ) of $22.2 billion and $7.0 billion at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company has
    also pledged certain agricultural real estate mortgage loans in
    connection with funding agreements with the Federal Agricultural
    Mortgage Corporation with a carrying value of $2.9 billion
    at both December 31, 2008 and 2007. The Company has also
    pledged qualifying mortgage loans and securities in connection
    with collateralized borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank of
    New York s Term Auction Facility with an estimated fair
    value of $1.6 billion at December 31, 2008. The nature
    of these Federal Home Loan Bank, Federal Agricultural Mortgage
    Corporation and Federal Reserve Bank of New York arrangements
    are described in Notes 7 and 10.

Certain of the Company s invested assets are pledged as
    collateral for various derivative transactions as described in
    Note 4. Certain of the Company s trading securities
    are pledged to secure liabilities associated with short sale
    agreements in the trading securities portfolio as described in
    the following section.

Trading
    Securities   

The Company has a trading securities portfolio to support
    investment strategies that involve the active and frequent
    purchase and sale of securities, the execution of short sale
    agreements and asset and liability matching

F-57

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

strategies for certain insurance products. Trading securities
    and short sale agreement liabilities are recorded at estimated
    fair value with subsequent changes in estimated fair value
    recognized in net investment income.

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, trading securities at
    estimated fair value were $946 million and
    $779 million, respectively, and liabilities associated with
    the short sale agreements in the trading securities portfolio,
    which were included in other liabilities, were $57 million
    and $107 million, respectively. The Company had pledged
    $346 million and $407 million of its assets, at
    estimated fair value, primarily consisting of trading
    securities, as collateral to secure the liabilities associated
    with the short sale agreements in the trading securities
    portfolio at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Interest and dividends earned on trading securities in addition
    to the net realized and unrealized gains (losses) recognized on
    the trading securities and the related short sale agreement
    liabilities included within net investment income totaled
    ($193) million, $50 million and $71 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. Included within unrealized gains (losses) on such
    trading securities and short sale agreement liabilities are
    changes in estimated fair value of ($174) million,
    ($4) million and $26 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Mortgage
    and Consumer Loans   

Mortgage and consumer loans are categorized as follows:

At December 31, 2008, mortgage loans held-for-sale include
    $1,975 million of residential mortgage loans held-for-sale
    carried under the fair value option. At December 31, 2008
    and 2007, mortgage loans held-for-sale also include
    $37 million and $5 million, respectively, of
    commercial and residential mortgage loans held-for-sale which
    are carried at the lower of amortized cost or estimated fair
    value.

Mortgage and Consumer Loans by Geographic Region and Property
    Type    The Company diversifies its mortgage loans
    by both geographic region and property type to reduce risk of
    concentration. Mortgage loans are collateralized by properties
    primarily located in the United States. At December 31,
    2008, 20%, 7% and 6% of the value of the Company s mortgage
    and consumer loans were located in California, Texas and
    Florida, respectively. Generally, the Company, as the lender,
    only loans up to 75% of the purchase price of the underlying
    real estate. As shown in the table above, commercial mortgage
    loans at December 31, 2008 and 2007 were
    $36,197 million and $34,824 million, respectively, or
    72.9% and 75.1%, respectively, of total mortgage and consumer
    loans prior to valuation allowances. Net of valuation allowances
    commercial mortgage loans were $35,965 million and

F-58

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

$34,657 million, respectively, at December 31, 2008
    and 2007 and there was diversity across geographic regions and
    property types as shown below at:

Certain of the Company s real estate joint ventures have
    mortgage loans with the Company. The carrying values of such
    mortgages were $372 million and $373 million at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Information regarding loan valuation allowances for mortgage and
    consumer loans held-for-investment is as follows:

F-59

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

A portion of the Company s mortgage and consumer loans
    held-for-investment was impaired and consisted of the following:

The average investment in impaired loans was $389 million,
    $453 million and $202 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Interest
    income on impaired loans was $10 million, $38 million
    and $2 million for the years ended December 31, 2008,
    2007 and 2006, respectively.

The investment in restructured loans was $1 million and
    $2 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. Interest income recognized on restructured loans
    was $1 million or less for each of the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Gross interest income
    that would have been recorded in accordance with the original
    terms of such loans also amounted to $1 million or less for
    each of the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.

Mortgage and consumer loans with scheduled payments of
    90 days or more past due on which interest is still
    accruing, had an amortized cost of $2 million and
    $4 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. Mortgage and consumer loans on which interest is
    no longer accrued had an amortized cost of $11 million and
    $28 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. Mortgage and consumer loans in foreclosure had an
    amortized cost of $28 million and $12 million at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Real
    Estate Holdings   

Real estate holdings consisted of the following:

Related depreciation expense on real estate was
    $136 million, $130 million and $131 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. These amounts include less than $1 million,
    $2 million and $27 million of depreciation expense
    related to discontinued operations for the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

There were no impairments recognized on real estate
    held-for-sale for the year ended December 31, 2008 and
    2007. Impairment losses recognized on real estate held-for-sale
    were $8 million for the year ended December 31,

F-60

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

2006. The carrying value of non-income producing real estate was
    $28 million and $12 million at December 31, 2008
    and 2007, respectively. The Company owned real estate acquired
    in satisfaction of debt was $2 million and $3 million
    at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

The Company diversifies its real estate holdings by both
    geographic region and property type to reduce risk of
    concentration. The Company s real estate holdings are
    primarily located in the United States, and at December 31,
    2008, 22%, 13%, 11% and 8% were located in California, Florida,
    New York and Texas, respectively. Property type diversification
    is shown in the table below.

Real estate holdings were categorized as follows:

Other
    Limited Partnership Interests   

The carrying value of other limited partnership interests (which
    primarily represent ownership interests in pooled investment
    funds that principally make private equity investments in
    companies in the United States and overseas) was
    $6.0 billion and $6.2 billion at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively. Included within other limited
    partnership interests at December 31, 2008 and 2007 are
    $1.3 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively, of hedge
    funds.

For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, net
    investment income (loss) from other limited partnership
    interests was ($170) million, $1,309 million and
    $945 million, respectively. Net investment income (loss)
    from other limited partnership interests, including hedge funds,
    decreased by $1,479 million for the year ended 2008, due to
    volatility in the equity and credit markets.

F-61

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Other
    Invested Assets   

The following table presents the carrying value of the
    Company s other invested assets at:

See Note 4 regarding the freestanding derivatives with
    positive estimated fair values. Joint venture investments are
    accounted for on the equity method and represent our investment
    in insurance underwriting joint ventures in Japan, Chile and
    China. Tax credit partnerships are established for the purpose
    of investing in low-income housing and other social causes,
    where the primary return on investment is in the form of tax
    credits, and are accounted for under the equity method. Funding
    agreements represent arrangements where the Company has
    long-term interest bearing amounts on deposit with third parties
    and are generally stated at amortized cost. Funds withheld
    represent amounts contractually withheld by ceding companies in
    accordance with reinsurance agreements.

Leveraged
    Leases  

Investment in leveraged leases, included in other invested
    assets, consisted of the following:

The Company s deferred income tax liability related to
    leveraged leases was $1.2 billion and $1.0 billion at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The rental
    receivables set forth above are generally due in periodic
    installments. The payment periods range from one to
    15 years, but in certain circumstances are as long as
    30 years.

F-62

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The components of net income from investment in leveraged leases
    are as follows:

Mortgage
    Servicing Rights  

The following table presents the changes in capitalized mortgage
    servicing rights for the year ended December 31, 2008:

Carrying Value 

(In millions) 

Fair value on December 31, 2007

$

Acquisition of mortgage servicing rights

350

Reduction due to loan payments

(10

)

Reduction due to sales

Changes in fair value due to:

Changes in valuation model inputs or assumptions

(149

)

Other changes in fair value

Fair value on December 31, 2008

$

191

The Company recognizes the rights to service residential
    mortgage loans as mortgage servicing rights. MSR s are
    either acquired or are generated from the sale of originated
    residential mortgage loans where the servicing rights are
    retained by the Company. MSR s are carried at estimated
    fair value and changes in estimated fair value, primarily due to
    changes in valuation inputs and assumptions and to the
    collection of expected cash flows, are reported in other
    revenues in the period in which the change occurs. See also
    Note 24 for further information about the how the estimated
    fair value of mortgage servicing rights is determined and other
    related information.

F-63

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Variable
    Interest Entities   

The following table presents the total assets and total
    liabilities relating to VIEs for which the Company has concluded
    that it is the primary beneficiary and which are consolidated in
    the Company s financial statements at December 31,
    2008. Generally, creditors or beneficial interest holders of
    VIEs where the Company is the primary beneficiary have no
    recourse to the general credit of the Company.

(1)  

These assets are reflected at estimated fair value, and consist
    of fixed maturity securities available-for-sale of
    $2,137 million and cash and cash equivalents of
    $224 million, of which $60 million is cash
     held-in-trust. 
    Included within fixed maturity securities available-for-sale are
    $948 million of U.S. corporate securities,
    $561 million of residential mortgage-backed securities,
    $409 million of asset-backed securities, $98 million
    of commercial mortgage-backed securities, $95 million of
    foreign corporate securities, $21 million of state and
    political subdivision securities and $5 million of foreign
    government securities. See Note 11. 

(2)  

Real estate joint ventures include partnerships and other
    ventures which engage in the acquisition, development,
    management and disposal of real estate investments. Upon
    consolidation, the assets and liabilities are reflected at the
    VIE s carrying amounts. The assets consist of
    $20 million of real estate and real estate joint ventures
    held-for-investment, $5 million of cash and cash
    equivalents and $1 million of other assets. The liabilities
    of $15 million are included within other liabilities. 

(3)  

Other limited partnership interests include partnerships
    established for the purpose of investing in public and private
    debt and equity securities. Upon consolidation, the assets and
    liabilities are reflected at the VIE s carrying amounts.
    The assets of $20 million are included within other limited
    partnership interests while the liabilities of $3 million
    are included within other liabilities. 

(4)  

Other invested assets include tax-credit partnerships and other
    investments established for the purpose of investing in
    low-income housing and other social causes, where the primary
    return on investment is in the form of tax credits. Upon
    consolidation, the assets and liabilities are reflected at the
    VIE s carrying amounts. The assets of $10 million are
    included within other invested assets. The liabilities consist
    of $2 million of long-term debt and $1 million of
    other liabilities. 

F-64

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents the carrying amount and maximum
    exposure to loss relating to VIEs for which the Company holds
    significant variable interests but is not the primary
    beneficiary and which have not been consolidated at
    December 31, 2008:

(1)  

See Note 1 for further discussion of the Company s
    significant accounting policies with regards to the carrying
    amounts of these investments. 

(2)  

The maximum exposure to loss relating to the fixed maturity
    securities available-for-sale and equity securities
    available-for-sale is equal to the carrying amounts or carrying
    amounts of retained interests. The maximum exposure to loss
    relating to the real estate joint ventures and other limited
    partnership interests is equal to the carrying amounts plus any
    unfunded commitments. Such a maximum loss would be expected to
    occur only upon bankruptcy of the issuer or investee. For
    certain of its investments in other invested assets, the
    Company s return is in the form of tax credits which are
    guaranteed by a creditworthy third party. For such investments,
    the maximum exposure to loss is equal to the carrying amounts
    plus any unfunded commitments, reduced by amounts guaranteed by
    third parties. 

As described in Note 16, the Company makes commitments to
    fund partnership investments in the normal course of business.
    Excluding these commitments, MetLife did not provide financial
    or other support to investees designated as VIEs during the
    years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.

F-65

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

4.    

Derivative
    Financial Instruments  

Types
    of Derivative Financial Instruments   

The following table presents the notional amount and current
    market or estimated fair value of derivative financial
    instruments, excluding embedded derivatives, held at:

The following table presents the notional amount of derivative
    financial instruments by maturity at December 31, 2008:

Interest rate swaps are used by the Company primarily to reduce
    market risks from changes in interest rates and to alter
    interest rate exposure arising from mismatches between assets
    and liabilities (duration mismatches). In an

F-66

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

interest rate swap, the Company agrees with another party to
    exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed
    rate and floating rate interest amounts as calculated by
    reference to an agreed notional principal amount. These
    transactions are entered into pursuant to master agreements that
    provide for a single net payment to be made by the counterparty
    at each due date.

The Company commenced the use of inflation swaps during the
    first quarter of 2008. Inflation swaps are used as an economic
    hedge to reduce inflation risk generated from inflation-indexed
    liabilities. Inflation swaps are included in interest rate swaps
    in the preceding table.

The Company also enters into basis swaps to better match the
    cash flows from assets and related liabilities. In a basis swap,
    both legs of the swap are floating with each based on a
    different index. Generally, no cash is exchanged at the outset
    of the contract and no principal payments are made by either
    party. A single net payment is usually made by one counterparty
    at each due date. Basis swaps are included in interest rate
    swaps in the preceding table.

Interest rate caps and floors are used by the Company primarily
    to protect its floating rate liabilities against rises in
    interest rates above a specified level, and against interest
    rate exposure arising from mismatches between assets and
    liabilities (duration mismatches), as well as to protect its
    minimum rate guarantee liabilities against declines in interest
    rates below a specified level, respectively.

In exchange-traded interest rate (Treasury and swap) and equity
    futures transactions, the Company agrees to purchase or sell a
    specified number of contracts, the value of which is determined
    by the different classes of interest rate and equity securities,
    and to post variation margin on a daily basis in an amount equal
    to the difference in the daily market values of those contracts.
    The Company enters into exchange-traded futures with regulated
    futures commission merchants that are members of the exchange.

Exchange-traded interest rate (Treasury and swap) futures are
    used primarily to hedge mismatches between the duration of
    assets in a portfolio and the duration of liabilities supported
    by those assets, to hedge against changes in value of securities
    the Company owns or anticipates acquiring, and to hedge against
    changes in interest rates on anticipated liability issuances by
    replicating Treasury or swap curve performance. The value of
    interest rate futures is substantially impacted by changes in
    interest rates and they can be used to modify or hedge existing
    interest rate risk.

Exchange-traded equity futures are used primarily to hedge
    liabilities embedded in certain variable annuity products
    offered by the Company.

Foreign currency derivatives, including foreign currency swaps,
    foreign currency forwards and currency option contracts, are
    used by the Company to reduce the risk from fluctuations in
    foreign currency exchange rates associated with its assets and
    liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. The Company also
    uses foreign currency forwards and swaps to hedge the foreign
    currency risk associated with certain of its net investments in
    foreign operations.

In a foreign currency swap transaction, the Company agrees with
    another party to exchange, at specified intervals, the
    difference between one currency and another at a fixed exchange
    rate, generally set at inception, calculated by reference to an
    agreed upon principal amount. The principal amount of each
    currency is exchanged at the inception and termination of the
    currency swap by each party.

In a foreign currency forward transaction, the Company agrees
    with another party to deliver a specified amount of an
    identified currency at a specified future date. The price is
    agreed upon at the time of the contract and payment for such a
    contract is made in a different currency at the specified future
    date.

The Company enters into currency option contracts that give it
    the right, but not the obligation, to sell the foreign currency
    amount in exchange for a functional currency amount within a
    limited time at a contracted price. The contracts may also be
    net settled in cash, based on differentials in the foreign
    exchange rate and the strike price. Currency option contracts
    are included in options in the preceding table.

F-67

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Swaptions are used by the Company to hedge interest rate risk
    associated with the Company s long-term liabilities, as
    well as to sell, or monetize, embedded call options in its fixed
    rate liabilities. A swaption is an option to enter into a swap
    with an effective date equal to the exercise date of the
    embedded call and a maturity date equal to the maturity date of
    the underlying liability. The Company receives a premium for
    entering into the swaption. Swaptions are included in options in
    the preceding table.

Equity index options are used by the Company primarily to hedge
    minimum guarantees embedded in certain variable annuity products
    offered by the Company. To hedge against adverse changes in
    equity indices, the Company enters into contracts to sell the
    equity index options within a limited time at a contracted
    price. The contracts will be net settled in cash based on
    differentials in the indices at the time of exercise and the
    strike price. Equity index options are included in options in
    the preceding table.

The Company enters into financial forwards to buy and sell
    securities. The price is agreed upon at the time of the contract
    and payment for such a contract is made at a specified future
    date. In connection with the acquisition of a residential
    mortgage origination and servicing business in the third quarter
    of 2008, the Company acquired, as well as commenced issuing,
    interest rate lock commitments and financial forwards to sell
    residential mortgage-backed securities. The Company uses
    financial forwards to sell securities as economic hedges against
    the risk of changes in the estimated fair value of mortgage
    loans held-for-sale and interest rate lock commitments. Interest
    rate lock commitments are short-term commitments to fund
    mortgage loan applications in process for a fixed term at a
    fixed price. During the term of an interest rate lock
    commitment, the Company is exposed to the risk that interest
    rates will change from the rate quoted to the potential
    borrower. Interest rate lock commitments to fund mortgage loans
    that will be held-for-sale are considered derivatives pursuant
    to SFAS 133. Interest rate lock commitments and financial
    forwards to sell residential mortgage-backed securities are
    included in financial forwards in the preceding table.

Equity variance swaps are used by the Company primarily to hedge
    minimum guarantees embedded in certain variable annuity products
    offered by the Company. In an equity variance swap, the Company
    agrees with another party to exchange amounts in the future,
    based on changes in equity volatility over a defined period.
    Equity variance swaps are included in financial forwards in the
    preceding table.

Swap spread locks are used by the Company to hedge invested
    assets on an economic basis against the risk of changes in
    credit spreads. Swap spread locks are forward transactions
    between two parties whose underlying reference index is a
    forward starting interest rate swap where the Company agrees to
    pay a coupon based on a predetermined reference swap spread in
    exchange for receiving a coupon based on a floating rate. The
    Company has the option to cash settle with the counterparty in
    lieu of maintaining the swap after the effective date. Swap
    spread locks are included in financial forwards in the preceding
    table.

Certain credit default swaps are used by the Company to hedge
    against credit-related changes in the value of its investments
    and to diversify its credit risk exposure in certain portfolios.
    In a credit default swap transaction, the Company agrees with
    another party, at specified intervals, to pay a premium to
    insure credit risk. If a credit event, as defined by the
    contract, occurs, generally the contract will require the swap
    to be settled gross by the delivery of par quantities of the
    referenced investment equal to the specified swap notional in
    exchange for the payment of cash amounts by the counterparty
    equal to the par value of the investment surrendered.

Credit default swaps are also used to synthetically create
    investments that are either more expensive to acquire or
    otherwise unavailable in the cash markets. These transactions
    are a combination of a derivative and a cash instrument such as
    a U.S. Treasury or Agency security. The Company also enters
    into certain credit default swaps held in relation to trading
    portfolios.

A synthetic guaranteed interest contract ( GIC ) is a
    contract that simulates the performance of a traditional GIC
    through the use of financial instruments. Under a synthetic GIC,
    the policyholder owns the underlying assets. The Company
    guarantees a rate return on those assets for a premium.

F-68

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Total rate of return swaps ( TRRs ) are swaps whereby
    the Company agrees with another party to exchange, at specified
    intervals, the difference between the economic risk and reward
    of an asset or a market index and LIBOR, calculated by reference
    to an agreed notional principal amount. No cash is exchanged at
    the outset of the contract. Cash is paid and received over the
    life of the contract based on the terms of the swap. These
    transactions are entered into pursuant to master agreements that
    provide for a single net payment to be made by the counterparty
    at each due date. TRRs can be used as hedges or to synthetically
    create investments and are included in the other classification
    in the preceding table.

Hedging   

The following table presents the notional amount and the
    estimated fair value of derivatives by type of hedge designation
    at:

The following table presents the settlement payments recorded in
    income for the:

Fair
    Value Hedges   

The Company designates and accounts for the following as fair
    value hedges when they have met the requirements of
    SFAS 133: (i) interest rate swaps to convert fixed
    rate investments to floating rate investments;
    (ii) interest rate swaps to convert fixed rate liabilities
    to floating rate liabilities; and (iii) foreign currency
    swaps to hedge the foreign currency fair value exposure of
    foreign currency denominated investments and liabilities.

F-69

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The Company recognized net investment gains (losses)
    representing the ineffective portion of all fair value hedges as
    follows:

All components of each derivative s gain or loss were
    included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness. There were no
    instances in which the Company discontinued fair value hedge
    accounting due to a hedged firm commitment no longer qualifying
    as a fair value hedge.

Cash
    Flow Hedges   

The Company designates and accounts for the following as cash
    flow hedges when they have met the requirements of
    SFAS 133: (i) interest rate swaps to convert floating
    rate investments to fixed rate investments; (ii) interest
    rate swaps to convert floating rate liabilities to fixed rate
    liabilities; and (iii) foreign currency swaps to hedge the
    foreign currency cash flow exposure of foreign currency
    denominated investments and liabilities.

For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, the
    Company did not recognize any net investment gains (losses)
    which represented the ineffective portion of all cash flow
    hedges. All components of each derivative s gain or loss
    were included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness. In
    certain instances, the Company discontinued cash flow hedge
    accounting because the forecasted transactions did not occur on
    the anticipated date or in the additional time period permitted
    by SFAS 133. The net amounts reclassified into net
    investment losses for the years ended December 31, 2008,
    2007 and 2006 related to such discontinued cash flow hedges were
    $12 million, $3 million and $3 million,
    respectively. There were no hedged forecasted transactions,
    other than the receipt or payment of variable interest payments
    for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006.

The following table presents the components of other
    comprehensive income (loss), before income tax, related to cash
    flow hedges:

At December 31, 2008, $47 million of the deferred net
    loss on derivatives accumulated in other comprehensive income
    (loss) is expected to be reclassified to earnings during the
    year ending December 31, 2009.

F-70

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Hedges
    of Net Investments in Foreign Operations   

The Company uses forward exchange contracts, foreign currency
    swaps, options and non-derivative financial instruments to hedge
    portions of its net investments in foreign operations against
    adverse movements in exchange rates. The Company measures
    ineffectiveness on the forward exchange contracts based upon the
    change in forward rates. There was no ineffectiveness recorded
    for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.

The Company s consolidated statement of stockholders 
    equity for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006
    include gains (losses) of $495 million, ($180) million
    and ($17) million, respectively, related to foreign
    currency contracts and non-derivative financial instruments used
    to hedge its net investments in foreign operations. At
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, the cumulative foreign currency
    translation gain (loss) recorded in accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) related to these hedges was
    $126 million and ($369) million, respectively. When
    net investments in foreign operations are sold or substantially
    liquidated, the amounts in accumulated other comprehensive
    income (loss) are reclassified to the consolidated statements of
    income, while a pro rata portion will be reclassified upon
    partial sale of the net investments in foreign operations.

Non-qualifying
    Derivatives and Derivatives for Purposes Other Than
    Hedging   

The Company enters into the following derivatives that do not
    qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133 or for purposes
    other than hedging: (i) interest rate swaps, purchased caps
    and floors, and interest rate futures to economically hedge its
    exposure to interest rates; (ii) foreign currency forwards,
    swaps and option contracts to economically hedge its exposure to
    adverse movements in exchange rates; (iii) credit default
    swaps to economically hedge exposure to adverse movements in
    credit; (iv) equity futures, equity index options, interest
    rate futures and equity variance swaps to economically hedge
    liabilities embedded in certain variable annuity products;
    (v) swap spread locks to economically hedge invested assets
    against the risk of changes in credit spreads;
    (vi) financial forwards to buy and sell securities to
    economically hedge its exposure to interest rates;
    (vii) synthetic guaranteed interest contracts;
    (viii) credit default swaps and total rate of return swaps
    to synthetically create investments; (ix) basis swaps to
    better match the cash flows of assets and related liabilities;
    (x) credit default swaps held in relation to trading
    portfolios; (xi) swaptions to hedge interest rate risk;
    (xii) inflation swaps to reduce risk generated from
    inflation-indexed liabilities; and (xiii) interest rate
    lock commitments.

The following table presents changes in estimated fair value
    related to derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting:

(1)  

Changes in estimated fair value related to economic hedges of
    liabilities embedded in certain variable annuity products
    offered by the Company. 

(2)  

Changes in estimated fair value related to economic hedges of
    equity method investments in joint ventures that do not qualify
    for hedge accounting and changes in estimated fair value related
    to derivatives held in relation to trading portfolios. 

(3)  

Changes in estimated fair value related to derivatives held in
    connection with the Company s mortgage banking activities. 

F-71

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Embedded
    Derivatives   

The Company has certain embedded derivatives that are required
    to be separated from their host contracts and accounted for as
    derivatives. These host contracts principally include: variable
    annuities with guaranteed minimum withdrawal, guaranteed minimum
    accumulation and certain guaranteed minimum income riders; ceded
    reinsurance contracts related to guaranteed minimum accumulation
    and certain guaranteed minimum income riders; and guaranteed
    investment contracts with equity or bond indexed crediting rates.

The following table presents the estimated fair value of the
    Company s embedded derivatives at:

The following table presents changes in the estimated fair value
    related to embedded derivatives:

(1)  

Effective January 1, 2008, upon adoption of SFAS 157,
    the valuation of the Company s guaranteed minimum benefit
    riders includes an adjustment for the Company s own credit.
    Included in net investment gains (losses) for the year ended
    December 31, 2008 are gains of $2,994 million in
    connection with this adjustment. 

Credit
    Risk   

The Company may be exposed to credit-related losses in the event
    of nonperformance by counterparties to derivative financial
    instruments. Generally, the current credit exposure of the
    Company s derivative contracts is limited to the net
    positive estimated fair value of derivative contracts at the
    reporting date after taking into consideration the existence of
    netting agreements and any collateral received pursuant to
    credit support annexes.

The Company manages its credit risk related to over-the-counter
    derivatives by entering into transactions with creditworthy
    counterparties, maintaining collateral arrangements and through
    the use of master agreements that provide for a single net
    payment to be made by one counterparty to another at each due
    date and upon termination. Because exchange traded futures are
    effected through regulated exchanges, and positions are marked
    to market on a daily basis, the Company has minimal exposure to
    credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by
    counterparties to such derivative instruments. See Note 24
    for a description of the impact of credit risk on the valuation
    of derivative instruments.

The Company enters into various collateral arrangements, which
    require both the pledging and accepting of collateral in
    connection with its derivative instruments. At December 31,
    2008 and 2007, the Company was

F-72

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

obligated to return cash collateral under its control of
    $7,758 million and $833 million, respectively. This
    unrestricted cash collateral is included in cash and cash
    equivalents or in short-term investments and the obligation to
    return it is included in payables for collateral under
    securities loaned and other transactions in the consolidated
    balance sheets. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company
    had also accepted collateral consisting of various securities
    with a fair market value of $1,249 million and
    $678 million, respectively, which are held in separate
    custodial accounts. The Company is permitted by contract to sell
    or repledge this collateral, but at December 31, 2008, none
    of the collateral had been sold or repledged.

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company provided
    securities collateral for various arrangements in connection
    with derivative instruments of $776 million and
    $162 million, respectively, which is included in fixed
    maturity securities. The counterparties are permitted by
    contract to sell or repledge this collateral. In addition, the
    Company has exchange-traded futures, which require the pledging
    of collateral. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company
    pledged securities collateral for exchange-traded futures of
    $282 million and $167 million, respectively, which is
    included in fixed maturity securities. The counterparties are
    permitted by contract to sell or repledge this collateral. At
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company provided cash
    collateral for exchange-traded futures of $686 million and
    $102 million, respectively, which is included in premiums
    and other receivables.

In connection with synthetically created investment transactions
    and credit default swaps held in relation to the trading
    portfolio, the Company writes credit default swaps for which it
    receives a premium to insure credit risk. If a credit event, as
    defined by the contract, occurs generally the contract will
    require the Company to pay the counterparty the specified swap
    notional amount in exchange for the delivery of par quantities
    of the referenced credit obligation. The Company s maximum
    amount at risk, assuming the value of all referenced credit
    obligations is zero, was $1,875 million at
    December 31, 2008. The Company can terminate these
    contracts at any time through cash settlement with the
    counterparty at an amount equal to the then current fair value
    of the credit default swaps. At December 31, 2008, the
    Company would have paid $37 million to terminate all of
    these contracts.

The Company has also entered into credit default swaps to
    purchase credit protection on certain of the referenced credit
    obligations in the table below. As a result, the maximum amount
    of potential future recoveries available to offset the
    $1,875 million from the table below was $13 million at
    December 31, 2008.

F-73

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents the estimated fair value, maximum
    amount of future payments and weighted average years to maturity
    of written credit default swaps at December 31, 2008:

December 31, 2008 

Maximum Amount of 

Fair Value of 

Future Payments 

Credit Default 

under Credit 

Weighted Average 

Rating Agency Designation of Referenced Credit
    Obligations (1) 

Swaps 

Default Swaps (2) 

Years to Maturity (3) 

(In millions) 

Aaa/Aa/A

Single name credit default swaps (corporate)

$

1

$

143

5.0

Credit default swaps referencing indices

(33

)

1,372

4.1

Subtotal

(32

)

1,515

4.2

Baa

Single name credit default swaps (corporate)

2

110

2.6

Credit default swaps referencing indices

(5

)

215

4.1

Subtotal

(3

)

325

3.6

Ba

Single name credit default swaps (corporate)

25

1.6

Credit default swaps referencing indices

Subtotal

25

1.6

B

Single name credit default swaps (corporate)

Credit default swaps referencing indices

(2

)

10

5.0

Subtotal

(2

)

10

5.0

Caa and lower

Single name credit default swaps (corporate)

Credit default swaps referencing indices

Subtotal

In or near default

Single name credit default swaps (corporate)

Credit default swaps referencing indices

Subtotal

$

(37

)

$

1,875

4.0

(1)  

The rating agency designations are based on availability and the
    midpoint of the applicable ratings among Moody s, S P,
    and Fitch. If no rating is available from a rating agency, then
    the MetLife rating is used. 

(2)  

Assumes the value of the referenced credit obligations is zero. 

(3)  

The weighted average years to maturity of the credit default
    swaps is calculated based on weighted average notional amounts. 

F-74

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

5.    

Deferred
    Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business
    Acquired  

Information regarding DAC and VOBA is as follows:

See Note 2 for a description of acquisitions and
    dispositions.

The estimated future amortization expense allocated to other
    expenses for the next five years for VOBA is $375 million
    in 2009, $353 million in 2010, $322 million in 2011,
    $289 million in 2012, and $250 million in 2013.

F-75

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Amortization of VOBA and DAC is attributed to both investment
    gains and losses and other expenses which are the amount of
    gross margins or profits originating from transactions other
    than investment gains and losses. Unrealized investment gains
    and losses provide information regarding the amount of DAC and
    VOBA that would have been amortized if such gains and losses had
    been recognized.

Information regarding DAC and VOBA by segment and reporting unit
    is as follows:

F-76

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Goodwill is the excess of cost over the estimated fair value of
    net assets acquired. Information regarding goodwill is as
    follows:

(1)  

See Note 2 for a description of acquisitions and
    dispositions. 

(2)  

Consisting principally of foreign currency translation
    adjustments. 

Information regarding goodwill by segment and reporting unit is
    as follows:

(1)  

The allocation of the goodwill to the reporting units was
    performed at the time of the respective acquisition. The
    $470 million of goodwill within Corporate   Other
    relates to goodwill acquired as a part of the Travelers
    acquisition of $405 million, as well as acquisitions by
    MetLife Bank which resides within Corporate   Other.
    For purposes of goodwill impairment testing at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, the $405 million of Corporate    

F-77

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Other goodwill has been attributed to the Individual and
    Institutional segment reporting units. The Individual segment
    was attributed $210 million, (traditional life  
    $23 million, variable   universal
    life   $11 million and annuities  
    $176 million) and the Institutional segment was attributed
    $195 million, (group life   $2 million,
    retirement   savings   $186 million,
    and non-medical health   other  
    $7 million) at both December 31, 2008 and 2007. 

As described in more detail in Note 1, the Company
    performed its annual goodwill impairment tests during the third
    quarter of 2008 based upon data as of June 30, 2008. Such
    tests indicated that goodwill was not impaired as of
    September 30, 2008. Current economic conditions, the
    sustained low level of equity markets, declining market
    capitalizations in the insurance industry and lower operating
    earnings projections, particularly for the Individual segment,
    required management of the Company to consider the impact of
    these events on the recoverability of its assets, in particular
    its goodwill. Management concluded it was appropriate to perform
    an interim goodwill impairment test at December 31, 2008.
    Based upon the tests performed management concluded no
    impairment of goodwill had occurred for any of the
    Company s reporting units at December 31, 2008.

Management continues to evaluate current market conditions that
    may affect the estimated fair value of the Company s
    reporting units to assess whether any goodwill impairment
    exists. Continued deteriorating or adverse market conditions for
    certain reporting units may have a significant impact on the
    estimated fair value of these reporting units and could result
    in future impairments of goodwill.

7.    

Insurance  

Insurance
    Liabilities   

Insurance liabilities are as follows:

F-78

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Value
    of Distribution Agreements and Customer Relationships
    Acquired   

Information regarding the VODA and VOCRA, which are reported in
    other assets, is as follows:

The estimated future amortization expense allocated to other
    expenses for the next five years for VODA and VOCRA is
    $34 million in 2009, $40 million in 2010,
    $44 million in 2011, $49 million in 2012 and
    $52 million in 2013. See Note 2 for a description of
    acquisitions and dispositions.

Sales
    Inducements   

Information regarding deferred sales inducements, which are
    reported in other assets, is as follows:

Separate
    Accounts   

Separate account assets and liabilities include two categories
    of account types: pass-through separate accounts totaling
    $96.6 billion and $141.7 billion at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively, for which the policyholder assumes
    all investment risk, and separate accounts with a minimum return
    or account value for which the Company contractually guarantees
    either a minimum return or account value to the policyholder
    which totaled $24.2 billion and $18.4 billion at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The latter
    category consisted primarily of Met Managed GICs and
    participating close-out contracts. The average interest rate
    credited on these contracts was 4.40% and 4.73% at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Fees charged to the separate accounts by the Company (including
    mortality charges, policy administration fees and surrender
    charges) are reflected in the Company s revenues as
    universal life and investment-type product policy fees and
    totaled $3.2 billion, $2.8 billion and
    $2.4 billion for the years ended December 31, 2008,
    2007 and 2006, respectively.

The Company s proportional interest in separate accounts is
    included in the consolidated balance sheets as follows:

F-79

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, there
    were no investment gains (losses) on transfers of assets from
    the general account to the separate accounts.

Obligations
    Under Guaranteed Interest Contract Program   

The Company issues fixed and floating rate obligations under its
    GIC program which are denominated in either U.S. dollars or
    foreign currencies. During the years ended December 31,
    2008, 2007 and 2006, the Company issued $5.8 billion,
    $5.2 billion and $5.2 billion, respectively, and
    repaid $8.3 billion, $4.3 billion and
    $2.6 billion, respectively, of GICs under this program. At
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, GICs outstanding, which are
    included in policyholder account balances, were
    $21.6 billion and $24.2 billion, respectively. During
    the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, interest
    credited on the contracts, which are included in interest
    credited to policyholder account balances, was
    $1.0 billion, $1.1 billion and $834 million,
    respectively.

Obligations
    Under Funding Agreements   

MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut is a member of the FHLB
    of Boston and holds $70 million of common stock of the FHLB
    of Boston at both December 31, 2008 and 2007, which is
    included in equity securities. MICC has also entered into
    funding agreements with the FHLB of Boston whereby MICC has
    issued such funding agreements in exchange for cash and for
    which the FHLB of Boston has been granted a blanket lien on
    certain MICC assets, including residential mortgage-backed
    securities, to collateralize MICC s obligations under the
    funding agreements. MICC maintains control over these pledged
    assets, and may use, commingle, encumber or dispose of any
    portion of the collateral as long as there is no event of
    default and the remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to
    satisfy the collateral maintenance level. Upon any event of
    default by MICC, the FHLB of Boston s recovery on the
    collateral is limited to the amount of MICC s liability to
    the FHLB of Boston. The amount of MICC s liability for
    funding agreements with the FHLB of Boston was $526 million
    and $726 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively, which is included in policyholder account
    balances. In addition, at December 31, 2008, MICC had
    advances of $300 million from the FHLB of Boston with
    original maturities of less than one year and therefore, such
    advances are included in short-term debt. These advances and the
    advances on these funding agreements are collateralized by
    mortgage-backed securities with estimated fair values of
    $1.3 billion and $901 million at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively.

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company is a member of the FHLB of
    NY and holds $830 million and $339 million of common
    stock of the FHLB of NY at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively, which is included in equity securities. MLIC has
    also entered into funding agreements with the FHLB of NY whereby
    MLIC has issued such funding agreements in exchange for cash and
    for which the FHLB of NY has been granted a lien on certain MLIC
    assets, including residential mortgage-backed securities to
    collateralize MLIC s obligations under the funding
    agreements. MLIC maintains control over these pledged assets,
    and may use, commingle, encumber or dispose of any portion of
    the collateral as long as there is no event of default and the
    remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to satisfy the
    collateral maintenance level. Upon any event of default by MLIC,
    the FHLB of NY s recovery on the collateral is limited to
    the amount of MLIC s liability to the FHLB of NY. The
    amount of the Company s liability for funding agreements
    with the FHLB of NY was $15.2 billion and $4.6 billion
    at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which is
    included in policyholder account balances. The advances on these
    agreements are collateralized by mortgage-backed securities with
    estimated fair values of $17.8 billion and
    $4.8 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

MLIC has issued funding agreements to certain trusts that have
    issued securities guaranteed as to payment of interest and
    principal by the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, a
    federally chartered instrumentality of the United States. The
    obligations under these funding agreements are secured by a
    pledge of certain eligible agricultural real estate mortgage
    loans and may, under certain circumstances, be secured by other
    qualified collateral. The amount of the Company s liability
    for funding agreements issued to such trusts was
    $2.5 billion at both December 31, 2008 and 2007, which
    is included in policyholder account balances. The obligations
    under these

F-80

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

funding agreements are collateralized by designated agricultural
    real estate mortgage loans with estimated fair values of
    $2.9 billion at both December 31, 2008 and 2007.

Approximately $3.0 billion of the obligations outstanding
    at MLIC at December 31, 2008 are subject to a temporary
    contingent increase in MLIC s borrowing capacity which is
    scheduled to expire at December 31, 2009. The Company does
    not expect to have any difficulties in meeting the contingencies
    associated with the increased capacity.

Liabilities
    for Unpaid Claims and Claim Expenses   

Information regarding the liabilities for unpaid claims and
    claim expenses relating to property and casualty, group accident
    and non-medical health policies and contracts, which are
    reported in future policy benefits and other policyholder funds,
    is as follows:

During 2008, 2007 and 2006, as a result of changes in estimates
    of insured events in the respective prior year, claims and claim
    adjustment expenses associated with prior years decreased by
    $353 million, $325 million and $329 million,
    respectively, due to a reduction in prior year automobile bodily
    injury and homeowners  severity, reduced loss adjustment
    expenses, improved loss ratio for non-medical health claim
    liabilities and improved claim management.

Guarantees   

The Company issues annuity contracts which may include
    contractual guarantees to the contractholder for:
    (i) return of no less than total deposits made to the
    contract less any partial withdrawals ( return of net
    deposits  and (ii) the highest contract value on a
    specified anniversary date minus any withdrawals following the
    contract anniversary, or total deposits made to the contract
    less any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return
    ( anniversary contract value  or  minimum
    return ). The Company also issues annuity contracts that
    apply a lower rate of funds deposited if the contractholder
    elects to surrender the contract for cash and a higher rate if
    the contractholder elects to annuitize ( two tier
    annuities ). These guarantees include benefits that are
    payable in the event of death or at annuitization.

F-81

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The Company also issues universal and variable life contracts
    where the Company contractually guarantees to the contractholder
    a secondary guarantee or a guaranteed
     paid-up 
    benefit.

Information regarding the types of guarantees relating to
    annuity contracts and universal and variable life contracts is
    as follows:

(1)  

The Company s annuity and life contracts with guarantees
    may offer more than one type of guarantee in each contract.
    Therefore, the amounts listed above may not be mutually
    exclusive. 

(2)  

The net amount at risk is based on the direct amount at risk
    (excluding reinsurance). 

(3)  

The net amount at risk for guarantees of amounts in the event of
    death is defined as the current guaranteed minimum death benefit
    in excess of the current account balance at the balance sheet
    date. 

(4)  

The net amount at risk for guarantees of amounts at
    annuitization is defined as the present value of the minimum
    guaranteed annuity payments available to the contractholder
    determined in accordance with the terms of the contract in
    excess of the current account balance. 

(5)  

The net amount at risk for two tier annuities is based on the
    excess of the upper tier, adjusted for a profit margin, less the
    lower tier. 

F-82

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Information regarding the liabilities for guarantees (excluding
    base policy liabilities) relating to annuity and universal and
    variable life contracts is as follows:

Account balances of contracts with insurance guarantees are
    invested in separate account asset classes as follows:

8.    

Reinsurance  

The Company s Individual segment life insurance operations
    participate in reinsurance activities in order to limit losses,
    minimize exposure to large risks, and provide additional
    capacity for future growth. The Company has historically
    reinsured the mortality risk on new individual life insurance
    policies primarily on an excess of retention basis or a quota
    share basis. Until 2005, the Company reinsured up to 90% of the
    mortality risk for all new individual life insurance policies
    that it wrote through its various franchises. This practice was
    initiated by the different franchises for different products
    starting at various points in time between 1992 and 2000. During
    2005, the Company changed its retention practices for certain
    individual life insurance. Amounts reinsured in prior years
    remain reinsured under the original reinsurance; however, under
    the new retention guidelines, the Company reinsures up to 90% of
    the mortality risk in excess of $1 million for most new
    individual life insurance policies that it writes through its
    various franchises and for certain individual life policies the
    retention limits remained unchanged. On a case by case basis,
    the Company may retain up to $20 million per life and
    reinsure 100% of amounts in excess of the Company s
    retention limits. The Company evaluates its reinsurance programs
    routinely and may increase or decrease its retention at any
    time. In addition, the Company reinsures a significant portion
    of the mortality risk on its

F-83

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

individual universal life policies issued since 1983. Placement
    of reinsurance is done primarily on an automatic basis and also
    on a facultative basis for risks with specific characteristics.

The Company s Individual segment also reinsures a portion
    of the living and death benefit riders issued in connection with
    its variable annuities. Under these reinsurance agreements, the
    Company pays a reinsurance premium generally based on rider fees
    collected from policyholders and receives reimbursements for
    benefits paid or accrued in excess of account values, subject to
    certain limitations. The Company enters into similar agreements
    for new or in-force business depending on market conditions.

The Institutional segment generally retains most of its risks
    and does not significantly utilize reinsurance. The Company may,
    on certain client arrangements, cede particular risks to
    reinsurers.

The Auto   Home segment purchases reinsurance to
    control its exposure to large losses (primarily catastrophe
    losses) and to protect statutory surplus. Auto   Home
    cedes to reinsurers a portion of losses and cedes premiums based
    upon the risk and exposure of the policies subject to
    reinsurance. To control exposure to large property and casualty
    losses, Auto   Home utilizes property catastrophe,
    casualty, and property per risk excess of loss agreements.

The Company also reinsures through 100% quota-share reinsurance
    agreements certain long-term care and workers  compensation
    business written by MICC prior to the Company s acquisition
    of MICC. These run-off businesses have been included within
    Corporate   Other since the acquisition of MICC.

In addition to reinsuring mortality risk as described
    previously, the Company reinsures other risks, as well as
    specific coverages. The Company routinely reinsures certain
    classes of risks in order to limit its exposure to particular
    travel, avocation and lifestyle hazards. The Company has
    exposure to catastrophes, which could contribute to significant
    fluctuations in the Company s results of operations. The
    Company uses excess of retention and quota share reinsurance
    arrangements to provide greater diversification of risk and
    minimize exposure to larger risks.

The Company reinsures its business through a diversified group
    of reinsurers. In the event that reinsurers do not meet their
    obligations to the Company under the terms of the reinsurance
    agreements, reinsurance balances recoverable could become
    uncollectible. Cessions under reinsurance arrangements do not
    discharge the Company s obligations as the primary insurer.

F-84

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The amounts in the consolidated statements of income are
    presented net of reinsurance ceded. Information regarding the
    effect of reinsurance is as follows:

Information regarding ceded reinsurance recoverable balances,
    included in premiums and other receivables is as follows:

Reinsurance recoverable balances are stated net of allowances
    for uncollectible balances, which are immaterial. The Company
    evaluates the financial strength of the Company s
    reinsurers by monitoring their ratings and analyzing their
    financial statements. The Company also analyzes recent trends in
    arbitration and litigation outcomes in disputes, if any, with
    its reinsurers. Recoverability of reinsurance recoverable
    balances are evaluated based on these analyses.

Included in the reinsurance recoverables are, $1.2 billion
    at both December 31, 2008 and 2007 related to reinsurance
    of long-term GICs and structured settlement lump sum contracts
    accounted for as a financing transaction; $3.9 billion and
    $3.4 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively, related to reinsurance recoverable on the run-off
    of long-term care business originally written by MICC;
    $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively, related to reinsurance recoverable
    on the run-off of workers compensation business originally
    written by MICC; and $0.6 billion and $1.1 billion at
    December 31, 2008

F-85

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

and 2007, respectively, related to the reinsurance of
    investment-type contracts held by small market defined benefit
    contribution plans.

The Company has secured certain reinsurance recoverable balances
    with various forms of collateral, including secured trusts,
    funds withheld accounts and irrevocable letters of credit. At
    December 31, 2008, the Company has $5,489 million of
    reinsurance recoverable balances secured by funds held in trust
    as collateral, $524 million of reinsurance recoverable
    balances secured by funds withheld accounts and
    $286 million of reinsurance recoverable balances secured
    through irrevocable letters of credit issued by various
    financial institutions.

At December 31, 2008, $7,651 million, or 69%, of the
    Company s total reinsurance recoverable balances were due
    from its five largest reinsurers. Of these reinsurance
    recoverable balances, $5,194 million were secured by funds
    held in trust as collateral and $209 million were secured
    through irrevocable letters of credit issued by various
    financial institutions.

Reinsurance balances payable, included in other liabilities,
    were $1,405 million and $571 million at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

9.    

Closed
    Block  

On April 7, 2000, (the  Demutualization Date ),
    MLIC converted from a mutual life insurance company to a stock
    life insurance company and became a wholly-owned subsidiary of
    MetLife, Inc. The conversion was pursuant to an order by the New
    York Superintendent of Insurance (the
     Superintendent ) approving MLIC s plan of
    reorganization, as amended (the  Plan ). On the
    Demutualization Date, MLIC established a closed block for the
    benefit of holders of certain individual life insurance policies
    of MLIC. Assets have been allocated to the closed block in an
    amount that has been determined to produce cash flows which,
    together with anticipated revenues from the policies included in
    the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to
    support obligations and liabilities relating to these policies,
    including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of
    claims and certain expenses and taxes, and to provide for the
    continuation of policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999,
    if the experience underlying such dividend scales continues, and
    for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience
    changes. At least annually, the Company compares actual and
    projected experience against the experience assumed in the
    then-current dividend scales. Dividend scales are adjusted
    periodically to give effect to changes in experience.

The closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed
    block assets and the anticipated revenues from the policies in
    the closed block will benefit only the holders of the policies
    in the closed block. To the extent that, over time, cash flows
    from the assets allocated to the closed block and claims and
    other experience related to the closed block are, in the
    aggregate, more or less favorable than what was assumed when the
    closed block was established, total dividends paid to closed
    block policyholders in the future may be greater than or less
    than the total dividends that would have been paid to these
    policyholders if the policyholder dividend scales in effect for
    1999 had been continued. Any cash flows in excess of amounts
    assumed will be available for distribution over time to closed
    block policyholders and will not be available to stockholders.
    If the closed block has insufficient funds to make guaranteed
    policy benefit payments, such payments will be made from assets
    outside of the closed block. The closed block will continue in
    effect as long as any policy in the closed block remains
    in-force. The expected life of the closed block is over
    100 years.

The Company uses the same accounting principles to account for
    the participating policies included in the closed block as it
    used prior to the Demutualization Date. However, the Company
    establishes a policyholder dividend obligation for earnings that
    will be paid to policyholders as additional dividends as
    described below. The excess of closed block liabilities over
    closed block assets at the effective date of the demutualization
    (adjusted to eliminate the impact of related amounts in
    accumulated other comprehensive income) represents the estimated
    maximum future earnings from the closed block expected to result
    from operations attributed to the closed block after income
    taxes. Earnings of the closed block are recognized in income
    over the period the policies and contracts

F-86

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

in the closed block remain in-force. Management believes that
    over time the actual cumulative earnings of the closed block
    will approximately equal the expected cumulative earnings due to
    the effect of dividend changes. If, over the period the closed
    block remains in existence, the actual cumulative earnings of
    the closed block is greater than the expected cumulative
    earnings of the closed block, the Company will pay the excess of
    the actual cumulative earnings of the closed block over the
    expected cumulative earnings to closed block policyholders as
    additional policyholder dividends unless offset by future
    unfavorable experience of the closed block and, accordingly,
    will recognize only the expected cumulative earnings in income
    with the excess recorded as a policyholder dividend obligation.
    If over such period, the actual cumulative earnings of the
    closed block is less than the expected cumulative earnings of
    the closed block, the Company will recognize only the actual
    earnings in income. However, the Company may change policyholder
    dividend scales in the future, which would be intended to
    increase future actual earnings until the actual cumulative
    earnings equal the expected cumulative earnings.

Recent experience within the closed block, in particular
    mortality and investment yields, as well as realized and
    unrealized losses, has resulted in a reduction of the
    policyholder dividend obligation to zero during the year ended
    December 31, 2008. The reduction of the policyholder
    dividend obligation to zero and the Company s decision to
    revise the expected policyholder dividend scales, which are
    based upon statutory results, has resulted in reduction to both
    actual and expected cumulative earnings of the closed block.
    This change in the timing of the expected cumulative earnings of
    the closed block combined with a policyholder dividend
    obligation of zero has resulted in a reduction in the DAC
    associated with closed block, which resides outside of the
    closed block, and a corresponding decrease in the Company s
    net income of $127 million, net of income tax, for the year
    ended December 31, 2008. Amortization of the closed block
    DAC will be based upon actual cumulative earnings rather than
    expected cumulative earnings of the closed block until such time
    as the actual cumulative earnings of the closed block exceed the
    expected cumulative earnings, at which time the policyholder
    dividend obligation will be reestablished. Actual cumulative
    earnings less than expected cumulative earnings will result in
    future reductions to DAC and net income of the Company and
    increase sensitivity of the Company s net income to
    movements in closed block results. See also Note 5 for
    further information regarding DAC.

F-87

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Information regarding the closed block liabilities and assets
    designated to the closed block is as follows:

F-88

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Information regarding the closed block policyholder dividend
    obligation is as follows:

Information regarding the closed block revenues and expenses is
    as follows:

The change in the maximum future earnings of the closed block is
    as follows:

MLIC charges the closed block with federal income taxes, state
    and local premium taxes, and other additive state or local
    taxes, as well as investment management expenses relating to the
    closed block as provided in the Plan. MLIC also charges the
    closed block for expenses of maintaining the policies included
    in the closed block.

F-89

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

10.    

Long-term
    and Short-term Debt  

Long-term and short-term debt outstanding is as follows:

The aggregate maturities of long-term debt at December 31,
    2008 for the next five years are $528 million in 2009,
    $352 million in 2010, $850 million in 2011,
    $597 million in 2012, $600 million in 2013 and
    $6,740 million thereafter.

Repurchase agreements and capital lease obligations are
    collateralized and rank highest in priority, followed by
    unsecured senior debt which consists of senior notes, fixed rate
    notes and other notes with varying interest rates, followed by
    subordinated debt which consists of junior subordinated
    debentures. Payments of interest and principal on the
    Company s surplus notes, which are subordinate to all other
    obligations at the operating company level and senior to
    obligations at the Holding Company, may be made only with the
    prior approval of the insurance department of the state of
    domicile. Collateral financing arrangements are supported by
    either surplus notes of subsidiaries or financing arrangements
    with the Holding Company and accordingly have priority
    consistent with other such obligations.

Long-term debt, credit facilities and letters of credit of the
    Holding Company and its subsidiaries contain various covenants.
    The Company has certain administrative, reporting, legal and
    financial covenants, including one requiring the Company to
    maintain a specified minimum consolidated net worth. The Company
    amended certain of its credit facilities, including its
    $2.85 billion, five-year revolving credit facilities, in
    December 2008. The Company was in compliance with all covenants
    at December 31, 2008 and 2007.

Senior
    Notes   

On August 15, 2008, the Holding Company remarketed its
    existing $1,035 million 4.82% Series A junior
    subordinated debentures as 6.817% senior debt securities,
    Series A, due 2018 payable semi-annually. On
    February 17, 2009, the Holding Company remarketed its
    existing $1,035 million 4.91% Series B junior
    subordinated debentures as 7.717% senior debt securities,
    Series B, due 2019 payable semi-annually. The Series A
    and Series B junior subordinated debentures were originally
    issued in 2005 in connection with the common equity units. See
    Notes 12, 13 and 25.

The Holding Company repaid a $500 million 5.25% senior
    note which matured in December 2006.

Repurchase
    Agreements with the Federal Home Loan Bank of New
    York   

MetLife Bank, National Association ( MetLife Bank ) is
    a member of the FHLB of NY and holds $89 million and
    $64 million of common stock of the FHLB of NY at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which is

F-90

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

included in equity securities. MetLife Bank has also entered
    into repurchase agreements with the FHLB of NY whereby MetLife
    Bank has issued repurchase agreements in exchange for cash and
    for which the FHLB of NY has been granted a blanket lien on
    certain of MetLife Bank s residential mortgages, mortgage
    loans held-for-sale, commercial mortgages and mortgage-backed
    securities to collateralize MetLife Bank s obligations
    under the repurchase agreements. MetLife Bank maintains control
    over these pledged assets, and may use, commingle, encumber or
    dispose of any portion of the collateral as long as there is no
    event of default and the remaining qualified collateral is
    sufficient to satisfy the collateral maintenance level. The
    repurchase agreements and the related security agreement
    represented by this blanket lien provide that upon any event of
    default by MetLife Bank, the FHLB of NY s recovery is
    limited to the amount of MetLife Bank s liability under the
    outstanding repurchase agreements. The amount of MetLife
    Bank s liability for repurchase agreements with the FHLB of
    NY was $1.8 billion and $1.2 billion at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which is included
    in long-term debt and short-term debt depending upon the
    original tenor of the advance. During the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, MetLife Bank received
    advances related to long-term borrowings totaling
    $220 million, $390 million and $260 million,
    respectively, from the FHLB of NY. MetLife Bank made repayments
    to the FHLB of NY of $371 million, $175 million and
    $117 million related to long-term borrowings for the years
    ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The
    advances on these repurchase agreements related to both
    long-term and short-term debt are collateralized by residential
    mortgages, mortgage loans held-for-sale, commercial mortgages
    and mortgage-backed securities with estimated fair values of
    $3.1 billion and $1.3 billion at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively.

Collateralized
    Borrowing from the Federal Reserve Bank of New
    York   

MetLife Bank is a depository institution that is approved to use
    the Federal Reserve Bank of New York Discount Window borrowing
    privileges and participate in the Federal Reserve Bank of New
    York Term Auction Facility ( TAF ). In order to
    utilize these facilities, since September 2008 MetLife Bank has
    pledged qualifying loans and investment securities to the
    Federal Reserve Bank of New York as collateral. Starting in
    October 2008, MetLife Bank has participated in periodic TAF
    auctions, which have a maximum maturity of 84 days. At
    December 31, 2008, MetLife Bank s liability for
    advances from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York was
    $950 million, which is included in short-term debt. The
    estimated fair value of loan and investment security collateral
    pledged by MetLife Bank to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
    at December 31, 2008 was $1.6 billion. For the year
    ended December 31, 2008, the weighted average interest rate
    on the TAF advances was 0.8% and the average daily balance was
    $145 million. TAF advances were outstanding for an average
    of 41 days during the year ended December 31, 2008.

Short-term
    Debt   

Short-term debt was $2,659 million and $667 million at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. At
    December 31, 2008, short-term debt consisted of
    $714 million of commercial paper, $950 million related
    to the aforementioned collateralized borrowing from the Federal
    Reserve Bank of New York, $695 million related to MetLife
    Bank s liability under the aforementioned repurchase
    agreements with the FHLB of NY with original maturities of less
    than one year and $300 million related to MICC s
    liability for borrowings from the FHLB of Boston with original
    maturities of less than one year. Short-term debt at
    December 31, 2007 consisted entirely of commercial paper.
    During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    the weighted average interest rate on short-term debt was 2.4%,
    5.0% and 5.2%, respectively. During the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the average daily balance
    of short-term debt was $1.3 billion, $1.6 billion and
    $1.9 billion, respectively and short-term debt was
    outstanding for an average of 25 days, 30 days and
    39 days, respectively.

Interest
    Expense   

Interest expense related to the Company s indebtedness
    included in other expenses was $554 million,
    $600 million and $642 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and does

F-91

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

not include interest expense on collateral financing
    arrangements, junior subordinated debt securities, common equity
    units or shares subject to mandatory redemption. See
    Notes 11, 12, 13 and 14.

Credit
    and Committed Facilities and Letters of Credit   

Credit Facilities.   The Company maintains
    committed and unsecured credit facilities aggregating
    $3.2 billion at December 31, 2008. When drawn upon,
    these facilities bear interest at varying rates in accordance
    with the respective agreements as specified below. The
    facilities can be used for general corporate purposes and, at
    December 31, 2008, $2.9 billion of the facilities also
    served as
     back-up 
    lines of credit for the Company s commercial paper
    programs. These agreements contain various administrative,
    reporting, legal and financial covenants, including one
    requiring the Company to maintain a specified minimum
    consolidated net worth. Management has no reason to believe that
    its lending counterparties are unable to fulfill their
    respective contractual obligations.

Total fees associated with these credit facilities were
    $17 million, of which $11 million related to deferred
    amendment fees, for the year ended December 31, 2008.
    Information on these credit facilities at December 31, 2008
    is as follows:

(1)  

In December 2008, the Holding Company and MetLife Funding, Inc.
    entered into an amended and restated $2.85 billion credit
    agreement with various financial institutions. The agreement
    amended and restated the $3.0 billion credit agreement
    entered into in June 2007. Proceeds are available to be used for
    general corporate purposes, to support their commercial paper
    programs and for the issuance of letters of credit. All
    borrowings under the credit agreement must be repaid by June
    2012, except that letters of credit outstanding upon termination
    may remain outstanding until June 2013. The borrowers and the
    lenders under this facility may agree to extend the term of all
    or part of the facility to no later than June 2014, except that
    letters of credit outstanding upon termination may remain
    outstanding until June 2015. Fees for this agreement include a
    0.25% facility fee, 0.075% fronting fee, a letter of credit fee
    between 1% and 5% based on certain market rates and a 0.05%
    utilization fee, as applicable, and may vary based on MetLife,
    Inc. s senior unsecured ratings. The Holding Company and
    MetLife Funding, Inc. incurred amendment costs of
    $11 million related to the $2,850 million amended and
    restated credit agreement, which have been capitalized and
    included in other assets. These costs will be amortized over the
    term of the agreement. The Holding Company did not have any
    deferred financing costs associated with the original June 2007
    credit agreement. 

(2)  

In July 2008, the facility was increased by $100 million
    and its maturity extended for one year to July 2009. Fees for
    this agreement include a commitment fee of $10,000 and a margin
    of Federal Funds plus 0.11%, as applicable. 

Committed Facilities.   The Company maintains
    committed facilities aggregating $11.5 billion at
    December 31, 2008. When drawn upon, these facilities bear
    interest at varying rates in accordance with the respective
    agreements as specified below. The facilities are used for
    collateral for certain of the Company s reinsurance
    reserves. These facilities contain various administrative,
    reporting, legal and financial covenants, including one
    requiring the Company to maintain a specified minimum
    consolidated net worth. Management has no reason to believe that
    its lending counterparties are unable to fulfill their
    respective contractual obligations.

F-92

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Total fees associated with these committed facilities were
    $35 million, of which $13 million related to deferred
    amendment fees, for the year ended December 31, 2008.
    Information on committed facilities at December 31, 2008 is
    as follows:

(1)  

In December 2008, the Holding Company entered into an amended
    and restated one year $500 million letter of credit
    facility (dated as of August 2008 and amended and restated at
    December 31, 2008) with an unaffiliated financial
    institution. Exeter Reassurance Company, Ltd.
    ( Exeter ) is a co-applicant under this letter of
    credit facility. This letter of credit facility matures in
    August 2009, except that letters of credit outstanding upon
    termination may remain outstanding until August 2010. Fees for
    this agreement include a margin of 2.25% and a utilization fee
    of 0.05%, as applicable. The Holding Company incurred amendment
    costs of $1.3 million related to the $500 million
    amended and restated letter of credit facility, which have been
    capitalized and included in other assets. These costs will be
    amortized over the term of the agreement. 

(2)  

The Holding Company is a guarantor under this agreement. 

(3)  

Letters of credit and replacements or renewals thereof issued
    under this facility of $280 million, $10 million and
    $200 million are set to expire no later than December 2015,
    March 2016 and June 2016, respectively. 

(4)  

In December 2008, Exeter, as borrower, and the Holding Company,
    as guarantor, entered into an amendment of an existing credit
    agreement with an unaffiliated financial institution. Issuances
    under this facility are set to expire in December 2027. Exeter
    incurred amendment costs of $1.6 million related to the
    amendment of the existing credit agreement, which have been
    capitalized and included in other assets. These costs will be
    amortized over the term of the agreement. 

(5)  

In May 2007, MetLife Reinsurance Company of South Carolina
    ( MRSC ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company,
    terminated the $2.0 billion amended and restated five-year
    letter of credit and reimbursement agreement entered into among
    the Holding Company, MRSC and various financial institutions on
    April 25, 2005. In its place, the Company entered into a
     30-year 
    collateral financing arrangement as described in Note 11,
    which may be extended by agreement of the Company and the
    financial institution on each anniversary of the closing of the
    facility for an additional one-year period. At December 31,
    2008, $2.7 billion had been drawn upon under the collateral
    financing arrangement. 

(6)  

In December 2007, Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd. terminated
    four letters of credit, with expirations from March 2025 through
    December 2026, which were issued under a letter of credit
    facility with an unaffiliated financial institution in an
    aggregate amount of $1.7 billion. The letters of credit had
    served as collateral for Exeter s obligations under a
    reinsurance agreement that was recaptured by MLI-USA in December
    2007. MLI-USA immediately thereafter entered into a new
    reinsurance agreement with MetLife Reinsurance Company of  

F-93

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Vermont ( MRV ). To collateralize its reinsurance
    obligations, MRV and the Holding Company entered into a
     30-year, 
    $2.9 billion letter of credit facility with an unaffiliated
    financial institution. 

(7)  

In September 2008, MRV and the Holding Company entered into a
     30-year, 
    $3.5 billion letter of credit facility with an unaffiliated
    financial institution. These letters of credit serve as
    collateral for MRV s obligations under a reinsurance
    agreement. 

Letters of Credit.   At December 31, 2008,
    the Company had outstanding $6.6 billion in letters of
    credit from various financial institutions of which
    $4.3 billion and $2.3 billion, were part of committed
    and credit facilities, respectively. As commitments associated
    with letters of credit and financing arrangements may expire
    unused, these amounts do not necessarily reflect the
    Company s actual future cash funding requirements.

11.    

Collateral
    Financing Arrangements  

Associated
    with the Closed Block   

In December 2007, MLIC reinsured a portion of its closed block
    liabilities to MetLife Reinsurance Company of Charleston
    ( MRC ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. In
    connection with this transaction, MRC issued, to investors
    placed by an unaffiliated financial institution,
    $2.5 billion of
     35-year 
    surplus notes to provide statutory reserve support for the
    assumed closed block liabilities. Interest on the surplus notes
    accrues at an annual rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.55%, payable quarterly. The ability of MRC to make
    interest and principal payments on the surplus notes is
    contingent upon South Carolina regulatory approval. At both
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, surplus notes outstanding were
    $2.5 billion.

Simultaneous with the issuance of the surplus notes, the Holding
    Company entered into an agreement with the unaffiliated
    financial institution, under which the Holding Company is
    entitled to the interest paid by MRC on the surplus notes of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.55% in exchange for the payment of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 1.12%, payable quarterly on such amount as adjusted,
    as described below. Under this agreement, the Holding Company
    may also be required to pledge collateral or make payments to
    the unaffiliated financial institution related to any decline in
    the estimated fair value of the surplus notes. Any such payments
    would be accounted for as a receivable and included under other
    assets on the Company s consolidated financial statements
    and would not reduce the principal amount outstanding of the
    surplus notes. In addition, the Holding Company may also be
    required to make a payment to the unaffiliated financial
    institution in connection with any early termination of this
    agreement. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the
    Holding Company paid $800 million to the unaffiliated
    financial institution related to a decline in the estimated fair
    value of the surplus notes. This payment reduced the amount
    under the agreement on which the Holding Company s interest
    payment is due but did not reduce the outstanding amount of the
    surplus notes. In addition, the Holding Company had pledged
    collateral of $230 million to the unaffiliated financial
    institution at December 31, 2008. No collateral had been
    pledged at December 31, 2007.

A majority of the proceeds from the offering of the surplus
    notes were placed in trust, which is consolidated by the
    Company, to support MRC s statutory obligations associated
    with the assumed closed block liabilities.

During 2007 and 2008 the Company deposited $2.0 billion and
    $314 million, respectively, into the trust, from the
    proceeds of surplus notes issued in 2007. At December 31,
    2008 and 2007, the estimated fair value of assets held in trust
    by the Company was $2.1 billion and $2.0 billion,
    respectively. The assets are principally invested in fixed
    maturity securities and are presented as such within the
    Company s consolidated balance sheet, with the related
    income included within net investment income in the
    Company s consolidated income statement. Interest on the
    collateral financing arrangement is included as a component of
    other expenses.

Total interest expense was $117 million and $5 million
    for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

F-94

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Associated
    with Secondary Guarantees   

In May 2007, the Holding Company and MetLife Reinsurance Company
    of South Carolina, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company,
    entered into a
     30-year 
    collateral financing arrangement with an unaffiliated financial
    institution that provides up to $3.5 billion of statutory
    reserve support for MRSC associated with reinsurance obligations
    under intercompany reinsurance agreements. Such statutory
    reserves are associated with universal life secondary guarantees
    and are required under U.S. Valuation of Life Policies
    Model Regulation (commonly referred to as
     Regulation A-XXX). 
    At December 31, 2008 and 2007, $2.7 billion and
    $2.4 billion, respectively, had been drawn upon under the
    collateral financing arrangement. The collateral financing
    arrangement may be extended by agreement of the Holding Company
    and the unaffiliated financial institution on each anniversary
    of the closing.

Proceeds from the collateral financing arrangement were placed
    in trust to support MRSC s statutory obligations associated
    with the reinsurance of secondary guarantees. The trust is a VIE
    which is consolidated by the Company. The unaffiliated financial
    institution is entitled to the return on the investment
    portfolio held by the trust.

In connection with the collateral financing arrangement, the
    Holding Company entered into an agreement with the same
    unaffiliated financial institution under which the Holding
    Company is entitled to the return on the investment portfolio
    held by the trust established in connection with this collateral
    financing arrangement in exchange for the payment of a stated
    rate of return to the unaffiliated financial institution of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.70%, payable quarterly. The Holding Company may
    also be required to make payments to the unaffiliated financial
    institution, for deposit into the trust, related to any decline
    in the estimated fair value of the assets held by the trust, as
    well as amounts outstanding upon maturity or early termination
    of the collateral financing arrangement. For the year ended
    December 31, 2008, the Holding Company paid
    $320 million to the unaffiliated financial institution as a
    result of the decline in the estimated fair value of the assets
    in the trust. All of the $320 million was deposited into
    the trust. In January 2009, the Holding Company paid an
    additional $360 million to the unaffiliated financial
    institution as a result of the continued decline in the
    estimated fair value of the assets in trust which was also
    deposited into the trust.

In addition, the Holding Company may be required to pledge
    collateral to the unaffiliated financial institution under this
    agreement. At December 31, 2008, the Holding Company had
    pledged $86 million under the agreement. No collateral had
    been pledged under the agreement at December 31, 2007.

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company held assets in
    trust with a estimated fair value of $2.4 billion and
    $2.3 billion, respectively, associated with this
    transaction. The assets are principally invested in fixed
    maturity securities and are presented as such within the
    Company s consolidated balance sheet, with the related
    income included within net investment income in the
    Company s consolidated income statement. Interest on the
    collateral financing arrangement is included as a component of
    other expenses.

Transaction costs associated with the collateral financing
    arrangement of $5 million have been capitalized, are
    included in other assets, and are amortized using the effective
    interest method over the period from the issuance of the
    collateral financing arrangement to its expiration. Total
    interest expense was $107 million and $84 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

12.    

Junior
    Subordinated Debentures  

Junior
    Subordinated Debentures Underlying Common Equity
    Units   

In June 2005, the Holding Company issued $1,067 million
    4.82% Series A and $1,067 million 4.91% Series B
    junior subordinated debentures due no later than
    February 15, 2039 and February 15, 2040, respectively,
    for a total of $2,134 million, in exchange for
    $64 million in trust common securities of MetLife Capital
    Trust II ( Series A Trust ) and MetLife
    Capital Trust III ( Series B Trust and together
    with the Series A Trust, the  Capital Trusts ),
    both subsidiary trusts of MetLife, Inc., and $2,070 million
    in aggregate cash proceeds from the sale by the subsidiary
    trusts of trust preferred securities, constituting part of the
    common equity units more fully described in

F-95

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Note 13. The subsidiary trusts each issued
    $1,035 million of trust preferred securities and
    $32 million of trust common securities. The trust common
    securities were issued to the Holding Company.

On August 6, 2008, the Series A Trust was dissolved
    and $32 million of the Series A junior subordinated
    debentures were returned to the Holding Company concurrently
    with the cancellation of the $32 million of trust common
    securities of the Series A Trust held by MetLife, Inc. Upon
    dissolution of the Series A Trust, the remaining
    $1,035 million of Series A junior subordinated
    debentures were distributed to the holders of the trust
    preferred securities and such trust preferred securities were
    cancelled. In connection with the remarketing transaction on
    August 15, 2008, the remaining $1,035 million MetLife,
    Inc. Series A junior subordinated debentures were modified,
    as permitted by their terms, to be 6.817% senior debt
    securities Series A, due August 15, 2018. The Company
    did not receive any proceeds from the remarketing. See also
    Notes 10 and 13.

On February 5, 2009, the Series B Trust was dissolved
    and $32 million of the Series B junior subordinated
    debentures were returned to the Holding Company concurrently
    with the cancellation of the $32 million of trust common
    securities of the Series B Trust held by MetLife, Inc. Upon
    dissolution of the Series B Trust, the remaining
    $1,035 million of Series B junior subordinated
    debentures were distributed to the holders of the trust
    preferred securities and such trust preferred securities were
    cancelled. In connection with the remarketing transaction on
    February 17, 2009, the remaining $1,035 million
    MetLife, Inc. Series B junior subordinated debentures were
    modified, as permitted by their terms, to be 7.717% senior
    debt securities Series B, due February 15, 2019. The
    Company did not receive any proceeds from the remarketing. See
    also Notes 10, 13 and 25.

Interest expense on the junior subordinated debentures
    underlying the common equity units was $84 million,
    $104 million and $104 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Other
    Junior Subordinated Debentures Issued by the Holding
    Company   

In April 2008, MetLife Capital Trust X, a VIE consolidated
    by the Company, issued exchangeable surplus trust securities
    (the  2008 Trust Securities ) with a face amount
    of $750 million. The 2008 Trust Securities will be
    exchanged into a like amount of the Holding Company s
    junior subordinated debentures on April 8, 2038, the
    scheduled redemption date, mandatorily under certain
    circumstances, and at any time upon the Holding Company
    exercising its option to redeem the securities. The 2008 Trust
    Securities will be exchanged for junior subordinated debentures
    prior to repayment. The final maturity of the debentures is
    April 8, 2068. The Holding Company may cause the redemption
    of the 2008 Trust Securities or debentures (i) in whole or
    in part, at any time on or after April 8, 2033 at their
    principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of
    redemption, or (ii) in certain circumstances, in whole or
    in part, prior to April 8, 2033 at their principal amount
    plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption or,
    if greater, a make-whole price. Interest on the 2008 Trust
    Securities or debentures is payable semi-annually at a fixed
    rate of 9.25% up to, but not including, April 8, 2038, the
    scheduled redemption date. In the event the 2008 Trust
    Securities or debentures are not redeemed on or before the
    scheduled redemption date, interest will accrue at an annual
    rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus a margin equal to 5.540%, payable quarterly in
    arrears. The Holding Company has the right to, and in certain
    circumstances the requirement to, defer interest payments on the
    2008 Trust Securities or debentures for a period up to ten
    years. Interest compounds during such periods of deferral. If
    interest is deferred for more than five consecutive years, the
    Holding Company may be required to use proceeds from the sale of
    its common stock or warrants on common stock to satisfy its
    obligation. In connection with the issuance of the 2008 Trust
    Securities, the Holding Company entered into a replacement
    capital covenant ( RCC ). As a part of the RCC, the
    Holding Company agreed that it will not repay, redeem, or
    purchase the debentures on or before April 8, 2058, unless,
    subject to certain limitations, it has received proceeds from
    the sale of specified capital securities. The RCC will terminate
    upon the occurrence of certain events, including an acceleration
    of the debentures due to the occurrence of an event of default.
    The RCC is not intended for the benefit of holders of the
    debentures and may not be enforced by them. The RCC is for the
    benefit of holders of one or more other designated series of its
    indebtedness (which will initially be its 5.70% senior
    notes due June 15, 2035). The Holding Company also entered
    into a replacement capital obligation which will commence in
    2038 and under

F-96

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

which the Holding Company must use reasonable commercial efforts
    to raise replacement capital through the issuance of certain
    qualifying capital securities. Issuance costs associated with
    the offering of the 2008 Trust Securities of $8 million
    have been capitalized, are included in other assets, and are
    amortized using the effective interest method over the period
    from the issuance date of the 2008 Trust Securities until their
    scheduled redemption. Interest expense on the 2008 Trust
    Securities was $51 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2008.

In December 2007, MetLife Capital Trust IV, a VIE
    consolidated by the Company, issued exchangeable surplus trust
    securities (the  2007 Trust Securities ) with a face
    amount of $700 million and a discount of $6 million
    ($694 million). The 2007 Trust Securities will be exchanged
    into a like amount of Holding Company junior subordinated
    debentures on December 15, 2037, the scheduled redemption
    date; mandatorily under certain circumstances; and at any time
    upon the Holding Company exercising its option to redeem the
    securities. The 2007 Trust Securities will be exchanged for
    junior subordinated debentures prior to repayment. The final
    maturity of the debentures is December 15, 2067. The
    Holding Company may cause the redemption of the 2007 Trust
    Securities or debentures (i) in whole or in part, at any
    time on or after December 15, 2032 at their principal
    amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of
    redemption, or (ii) in certain circumstances, in whole or
    in part, prior to December 15, 2032 at their principal
    amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of
    redemption or, if greater, a make-whole price. Interest on the
    2007 Trust Securities or debentures is payable semi-annually at
    a fixed rate of 7.875% up to, but not including,
    December 15, 2037, the scheduled redemption date. In the
    event the 2007 Trust Securities or debentures are not redeemed
    on or before the scheduled redemption date, interest will accrue
    at an annual rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus a margin equal to 3.96%, payable quarterly in
    arrears. The Holding Company has the right to, and in certain
    circumstances the requirement to, defer interest payments on the
    2007 Trust Securities or debentures for a period up to ten
    years. Interest compounds during such periods of deferral. If
    interest is deferred for more than five consecutive years, the
    Holding Company may be required to use proceeds from the sale of
    its common stock or warrants on common stock to satisfy its
    obligation. In connection with the issuance of the 2007 Trust
    Securities, the Holding Company entered into a RCC. As a part of
    the RCC, the Holding Company agreed that it will not repay,
    redeem, or purchase the debentures on or before
    December 15, 2057, unless, subject to certain limitations,
    it has received proceeds from the sale of specified capital
    securities. The RCC will terminate upon the occurrence of
    certain events, including an acceleration of the debentures due
    to the occurrence of an event of default. The RCC is not
    intended for the benefit of holders of the debentures and may
    not be enforced by them. The RCC is for the benefit of holders
    of one or more other designated series of its indebtedness
    (which will initially be its 5.70% senior notes due
    June 15, 2035). The Holding Company also entered into a
    replacement capital obligation which will commence in 2037 and
    under which the Holding Company must use reasonable commercial
    efforts to raise replacement capital through the issuance of
    certain qualifying capital securities. Issuance costs associated
    with the offering of the 2007 Trust Securities of
    $10 million have been capitalized, are included in other
    assets, and are amortized using the effective interest method
    over the period from the issuance date of the 2007 Trust
    Securities until their scheduled redemption. Interest expense on
    the 2007 Trust Securities was $55 million and
    $3 million, for the years ended December 31, 2008 and
    2007, respectively.

In December 2006, the Holding Company issued junior subordinated
    debentures with a face amount of $1.25 billion. The
    debentures are scheduled for redemption on December 15,
    2036; the final maturity of the debentures is December 15,
    2066. The Holding Company may redeem the debentures (i) in
    whole or in part, at any time on or after December 15, 2031
    at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to
    the date of redemption, or (ii) in certain circumstances,
    in whole or in part, prior to December 15, 2031 at their
    principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of
    redemption or, if greater, a make-whole price. Interest is
    payable semi-annually at a fixed rate of 6.40% up to, but not
    including, December 15, 2036, the scheduled redemption
    date. In the event the debentures are not redeemed on or before
    the scheduled redemption date, interest will accrue at an annual
    rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus a margin equal to 2.205%, payable quarterly in
    arrears. The Holding Company has the right to, and in certain
    circumstances the requirement to, defer interest payments on the
    debentures for a period up to ten years. Interest compounds
    during such periods of deferral. If interest is deferred for
    more than five consecutive years, the Holding Company may be
    required to use proceeds from the sale of its

F-97

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

common stock or warrants on common stock to satisfy its
    obligation. In connection with the issuance of the debentures,
    the Holding Company entered into a replacement capital covenant.
    As part of the RCC, the Holding Company agreed that it will not
    repay, redeem, or purchase the debentures on or before
    December 15, 2056, unless, subject to certain limitations,
    it has received proceeds from the sale of specified capital
    securities. The RCC will terminate upon the occurrence of
    certain events, including an acceleration of the debentures due
    to the occurrence of an event of default. The RCC is not
    intended for the benefit of holders of the debentures and may
    not be enforced by them. The RCC is for the benefit of holders
    of one or more other designated series of its indebtedness
    (which will initially be its 5.70% senior notes due
    June 15, 2035). The Holding Company also entered into a
    replacement capital obligation which will commence in 2036 and
    under which the Holding Company must use reasonable commercial
    efforts to raise replacement capital through the issuance of
    certain qualifying capital securities. Issuance costs associated
    with the offering of the debentures of $13 million have
    been capitalized, are included in other assets, and are
    amortized using the effective interest method over the period
    from the issuance date of the debentures until their scheduled
    redemption. Interest expense on the debentures was
    $80 million, $80 million and $2 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

In connection with financing the acquisition of Travelers on
    July 1, 2005, which is described in Note 2, the
    Holding Company distributed and sold 82.8 million 6.375%
    common equity units for $2,070 million in proceeds in a
    registered public offering on June 21, 2005. As described
    below, the common equity units consisted of interests in trust
    preferred securities issued by MetLife Capital Trusts II
    and III, and stock purchase contracts issued by the Holding
    Company. The only assets of MetLife Capital Trusts II
    and III were junior subordinated debentures issued by the
    Holding Company. As described in Note 12 and in the
     Remarketing of Junior Subordinated Debentures and
    Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts  section which
    follows, the common equity units ceased to exist upon the
    closing of the remarketing of the underlying debt instruments
    and the settlement of the stock purchase contracts in August
    2008 and February 2009.

Common
    Equity Units   

Each common equity unit had an initial stated amount of $25 per
    unit and consisted of: (i) a 1/80 or 1.25% ($12.50),
    undivided beneficial ownership interest in a series A trust
    preferred security of MetLife Capital Trust II
    ( Series A Trust ), with an initial liquidation
    amount of $1,000; (ii) a 1/80 or 1.25% ($12.50), undivided
    beneficial ownership interest in a series B trust preferred
    security of MetLife Capital Trust III ( Series B
    Trust  and, together with the Series A Trust, the
     Capital Trusts ), with an initial liquidation amount
    of $1,000; and (iii) a stock purchase contract under which
    the holder of the common equity unit agreed to purchase, and the
    Holding Company agreed to sell, on each of the initial stock
    purchase date and the subsequent stock purchase date, a variable
    number of shares of the Holding Company s common stock, par
    value $0.01 per share, for a purchase price of $12.50. After the
    closing of the first remarketing in August 2008, each common
    equity unit had a stated value of $12.50, rather than the
    initial stated amount of $25 per unit, and no longer included
    any ownership interest in the Series A Trust.

Junior
    Subordinated Debentures Issued to Support Trust Common and
    Preferred Securities   

The Holding Company issued $1,067 million 4.82%
    Series A and $1,067 million 4.91% Series B junior
    subordinated debentures due no later than February 15, 2039
    and February 15, 2040, respectively, for a total of
    $2,134 million, in exchange for $2,070 million in
    aggregate proceeds from the sale of the trust preferred
    securities by the Capital Trusts and $64 million in trust
    common securities issued equally by the Capital Trusts. The
    common and preferred securities of the Capital Trusts, totaling
    $2,134 million, represented undivided beneficial ownership
    interests in the assets of the Capital Trusts, had no stated
    maturity and were required to be redeemed upon maturity of the
    corresponding series of junior subordinated
    debentures   the sole assets of the respective Capital
    Trusts. The Series A Trust and Series B Trust made
    quarterly distributions on the common and preferred securities
    when due at

F-98

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

an annual rate of 4.82% and 4.91%, respectively, until they were
    dissolved in August 2008 and February 2009, respectively.

The trust common securities, which were held by the Holding
    Company, represented a 3% interest in the Capital Trusts and
    were reflected as fixed maturity securities in the consolidated
    balance sheet of MetLife, Inc. The Capital Trusts were VIEs in
    accordance with FIN 46(r), and the Company did not
    consolidate its interest in MetLife Capital Trusts II
    and III as it was not the primary beneficiary of either of
    the Capital Trusts.

As described in Note 12, upon dissolution of MetLife
    Capital Trusts II and III, $64 million of the junior
    subordinated debentures were returned to the Holding Company
    concurrently with the cancellation the $64 million of trust
    common securities of MetLife Capital Trust II and III
    held by the Holding Company and the remaining
    $2,070 million of junior subordinated debentures were
    distributed to the holders of the trust preferred securities and
    such trust preferred securities were cancelled.

The Holding Company directly guaranteed the repayment of the
    trust preferred securities to the holders thereof to the extent
    that there were funds available in the Capital Trusts. The
    guarantee remained in place until the full redemption of the
    trust preferred securities. The trust preferred securities held
    by the common equity unit holders were pledged to the Holding
    Company to collateralize the obligation of the common equity
    unit holders under the related stock purchase contracts. The
    common equity unit holders were permitted to substitute certain
    zero coupon treasury securities in place of the trust preferred
    securities, or the junior subordinated debentures subsequent to
    the dissolution of the Capital Trusts, as collateral under the
    stock purchase contract.

The trust preferred securities, or the junior subordinated
    debentures subsequent to the dissolution of the Capital Trusts,
    had remarketing dates which corresponded with the initial and
    subsequent stock purchase dates to provide the holders of the
    common equity units with proceeds to settle the stock purchase
    contracts. The initial stock purchase date was August 15,
    2008, but could have been deferred for quarterly periods until
    February 15, 2009 and the subsequent stock purchase date
    was February 15, 2009 but could have been deferred for
    quarterly periods until February 15, 2010. At the
    respective remarketing dates, the remarketing agent had the
    ability to reset the interest rate on the remarketed securities
    to generate sufficient remarketing proceeds to satisfy the
    common equity unit holder s obligation under the stock
    purchase contract, subject to a reset cap for each of the first
    two attempted remarketings of each series , which reset cap was
    waived by the Holding Company in connection with the remarketing
    of the Series B debentures in February 2009. The interest
    rate on the supporting junior subordinated debentures issued by
    the Holding Company would have been reset at a commensurate
    rate. If the initial remarketing had been unsuccessful, the
    remarketing agent would have attempted to remarket the trust
    preferred securities or junior subordinated debentures, as
    necessary, in subsequent quarters through February 15, 2009
    for the Series A trust preferred securities or junior
    subordinated debentures and through February 15, 2010 for
    the Series B trust preferred securities or junior
    subordinated debentures. The final attempt at remarketing would
    not have been subject to the reset cap. If all remarketing
    attempts were unsuccessful, the Holding Company had the right,
    as a secured party, to apply the liquidation amount on the trust
    preferred securities to the common equity unit holders 
    obligation under the stock purchase contract and to deliver to
    the common equity unit holder a junior subordinated debt
    security payable on August 15, 2010 at an annual rate of
    4.82% and 4.91% on the Series A and Series B trust
    preferred securities or junior subordinated debentures,
    respectively, in payment of any accrued and unpaid distributions.

Stock
    Purchase Contracts   

Each stock purchase contract required the holder of the common
    equity unit to purchase, and the Holding Company to sell, for
    $12.50, on each of the initial stock purchase date and the
    subsequent stock purchase date, a number of newly issued or
    treasury shares of the Holding Company s common stock, par
    value $0.01 per share, equal to the applicable settlement rate.
    The settlement rate at the respective stock purchase date was
    calculated based on the closing price of the common stock during
    a specified
     20-day 
    period immediately preceding the applicable stock purchase date.
    If the market value of the Holding Company s common stock
    was less than the

F-99

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

threshold appreciation price of $53.10 but greater than $43.35,
    the reference price, the settlement rate, as adjusted for
    dividends in accordance with the terms of the stock purchase
    contracts, was an amount of the Holding Company s common
    stock equal to the stated amount of $12.50 divided by the market
    value. If the market value was less than or equal to the
    reference price, the settlement rate, as adjusted for dividends
    in accordance with the terms of the stock purchase contracts,
    was 0.28835 shares of the Holding Company s common
    stock. If the market value was greater than or equal to the
    threshold appreciation price, the settlement rate, as adjusted
    for dividends in accordance with the terms of the stock purchase
    contracts, was 0.23540 shares of the Holding Company s
    common stock. Accordingly, upon settlement in the aggregate, the
    Holding Company received proceeds of $2,070 million and
    issued between 39.0 million and 47.8 million shares of
    its common stock. The stock purchase contract could have been
    exercised at the option of the holder at any time prior to the
    settlement date. However, upon early settlement, the holder
    would have received the minimum settlement rate. The Holding
    Company delivered 44,587,703 shares of its common stock in
    settlement of the stock purchase contracts.

The stock purchase contracts further required the Holding
    Company to pay the holder of the common equity unit quarterly
    contract payments on the stock purchase contracts at the annual
    rate of 1.510% on the stated amount of $25 per stock purchase
    contract until the initial stock purchase date and at the annual
    rate of 1.465% on the remaining stated amount of $12.50 per
    stock purchase contract thereafter.

The quarterly distributions on the Series A and
    Series B trust preferred securities of 4.82% and 4.91%,
    respectively, combined with the contract payments on the stock
    purchase contract of 1.510%, (1.465% after the initial stock
    purchase date) resulted in the 6.375% yield on the common equity
    units.

If the Holding Company had exercised its right to defer any of
    the contract payments on the stock purchase contract, then it
    would have accrued additional amounts on the deferred amounts at
    the annual rate of 6.375% until paid, to the extent permitted by
    law.

The value of the stock purchase contracts at issuance,
    $96.6 million, was calculated as the present value of the
    future contract payments due under the stock purchase contract
    of 1.510% through the initial stock purchase date, and 1.465% up
    to the subsequent stock purchase date, discounted at the
    interest rate on the supporting junior subordinated debentures
    issued by the Holding Company, 4.82% or 4.91% on the
    Series A and Series B trust preferred securities,
    respectively. The value of the stock purchase contracts was
    recorded in other liabilities with an offsetting decrease in
    additional paid-in capital. The other liability balance related
    to the stock purchase contracts accrued interest at the discount
    rate of 4.82% or 4.91%, as applicable, with an offsetting
    increase to interest expense. As the contract payments were made
    under the stock purchase contracts they reduced the other
    liability balance. During the years ended December 31,
    2008, 2007 and 2006, the Holding Company increased the other
    liability balance for the accretion of the discount on the
    contract payment of $2 million, $2 million and
    $3 million, respectively and made contract payments of
    $26 million, $31 million and $31 million,
    respectively.

Issuance
    Costs   

In connection with the offering of common equity units, the
    Holding Company incurred $55.3 million of issuance costs of
    which $5.8 million related to the issuance of the junior
    subordinated debentures underlying common equity units which
    funded the Series A and Series B trust preferred
    securities and $49.5 million related to the expected
    issuance of the common stock under the stock purchase contracts.
    The $5.8 million in debt issuance costs were capitalized,
    included in other assets, and amortized using the effective
    interest method over the period from issuance date of the common
    equity units to the initial and subsequent stock purchase date.
    The remaining $49.5 million of costs related to the common
    stock issuance under the stock purchase contracts and were
    recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in capital.

F-100

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Earnings
    Per Common Share   

The stock purchase contracts are reflected in diluted earnings
    per common share using the treasury stock method. The stock
    purchase contracts were included in diluted earnings per common
    share for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006
    as shown in Note 20.

Remarketing
    of Junior Subordinated Debentures and Settlement of Stock
    Purchase Contracts   

On August 15, 2008, the Holding Company closed the
    successful remarketing of the Series A portion of the
    junior subordinated debentures underlying the common equity
    units. The Series A junior subordinated debentures were
    modified as permitted by their terms to be 6.817% senior
    debt securities Series A, due August 15, 2018. The
    Holding Company did not receive any proceeds from the
    remarketing. Most common equity unit holders chose to have their
    junior subordinated debentures remarketed and used the
    remarketing proceeds to settle their payment obligations under
    the applicable stock purchase contract. For those common equity
    unit holders that elected not to participate in the remarketing
    and elected to use their own cash to satisfy the payment
    obligations under the stock purchase contract, the terms of the
    debt are the same as the remarketed debt. The initial settlement
    of the stock purchase contracts occurred on August 15,
    2008, providing proceeds to the Holding Company of
    $1,035 million in exchange for shares of the Holding
    Company s common stock. The Holding Company delivered
    20,244,549 shares of its common stock held in treasury at a
    value of $1,064 million to settle the stock purchase
    contracts.

On February 17, 2009, the Holding Company closed the
    successful remarketing of the Series B portion of the
    junior subordinated debentures underlying the common equity
    units. The Series B junior subordinated debentures were
    modified as permitted by their terms to be 7.717% senior
    debt securities Series B, due February 15, 2019. The
    Holding Company did not receive any proceeds from the
    remarketing. Most common equity unit holders chose to have their
    junior subordinated debentures remarketed and used the
    remarketing proceeds to settle their payment obligations under
    the applicable stock purchase contract. For those common equity
    unit holders that elected not to participate in the remarketing
    and elected to use their own cash to satisfy the payment
    obligations under the stock purchase contract, the terms of the
    debt are the same as the remarketed debt. The subsequent
    settlement of the stock purchase contracts occurred on
    February 17, 2009, providing proceeds to the Holding
    Company of $1,035 million in exchange for shares of the
    Holding Company s common stock. The Holding Company
    delivered 24,343,154 shares of its newly issued common
    stock at a value of $1,035 million to settle the stock
    purchase contracts. See also Notes 10, 12, 18 and 25.

14.    

Shares
    Subject to Mandatory Redemption and Company-Obligated
    Mandatorily Redeemable Securities of Subsidiary Trusts  

GenAmerica Capital I.   In June 1997, GenAmerica
    Corporation ( GenAmerica ) issued $125 million of
    8.525% capital securities through a wholly-owned subsidiary
    trust, GenAmerica Capital I. In October 2007, GenAmerica
    redeemed these securities which were due to mature on
    June 30, 2027. As a result of this redemption, the Company
    recognized additional interest expense of $10 million.
    Interest expense on these instruments is included in other
    expenses and was $20 million and $11 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

F-101

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The provision for income tax from continuing operations is as
    follows:

The reconciliation of the income tax provision at the
    U.S. statutory rate to the provision for income tax as
    reported for continuing operations is as follows:

F-102

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences
    between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Net
    deferred income tax assets and liabilities consisted of the
    following:

Domestic net operating loss carryforwards amount to
    $1,588 million at December 31, 2008 and will expire
    beginning in 2020. Foreign net operating loss carryforwards
    amount to $693 million at December 31, 2008 and were
    generated in various foreign countries with expiration periods
    of five years to indefinite expiration. Capital loss
    carryforwards amount to $781 million at December 31,
    2008 and will expire beginning in 2010. Tax credit carryforwards
    amount to $348 million at December 31, 2008.

The Company has recorded a valuation allowance related to tax
    benefits of certain foreign net operating loss carryforwards and
    certain foreign unrealized losses. The valuation allowance
    reflects management s assessment, based on available
    information, that it is more likely than not that the deferred
    income tax asset for certain foreign net operating loss
    carryforwards and certain foreign unrealized losses will not be
    realized. The tax benefit will be recognized when management
    believes that it is more likely than not that these deferred
    income tax assets are realizable. In 2008, the Company recorded
    an increase to the deferred tax valuation allowance of
    $145 million, of which $63 million related to certain
    foreign net operating loss carryforwards and $82 million
    related to certain foreign unrealized losses.

The Company has not established a valuation allowance against
    the deferred tax asset of $6,590 million recognized in
    connection with unrealized losses at December 31, 2008,
    other than the $82 million of valuation allowance
    recognized in connection with certain foreign unrealized losses.
    A valuation allowance was not considered necessary based upon
    the Company s intent and ability to hold such securities
    until their recovery

F-103

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

or maturity and the existence of tax-planning strategies that
    include sources of future taxable income against which such
    losses could be offset.

The Company files income tax returns with the U.S. federal
    government and various state and local jurisdictions, as well as
    foreign jurisdictions. The Company is under continuous
    examination by the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS )
    and other tax authorities in jurisdictions in which the Company
    has significant business operations. The income tax years under
    examination vary by jurisdiction. With a few exceptions, the
    Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state and
    local, or foreign income tax examinations by tax authorities for
    years prior to 2000. In 2005, the IRS commenced an examination
    of the Company s U.S. income tax returns for 2000
    through 2002 that is anticipated to be completed in 2009.

As a result of the implementation of FIN 48 on
    January 1, 2007, the Company recognized a $35 million
    increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and a
    $9 million decrease in the interest liability for
    unrecognized tax benefits, as well as a $17 million
    increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and a
    $5 million increase in the interest liability for
    unrecognized tax benefits which are included in liabilities of
    subsidiaries held-for-sale. The corresponding reduction to the
    January 1, 2007 balance of retained earnings was
    $37 million, net of $11 million of minority interest
    included in liabilities of subsidiaries held-for-sale. The
    Company s total amount of unrecognized tax benefits upon
    adoption of FIN 48 was $932 million. The Company
    reclassified, at adoption, $602 million of current income
    tax payables to the liability for unrecognized tax benefits
    included within other liabilities. The Company also
    reclassified, at adoption, $295 million of deferred income
    tax liabilities, for which the ultimate deductibility is highly
    certain but for which there is uncertainty about the timing of
    such deductibility, to the liability for unrecognized tax
    benefits. Because of the impact of deferred tax accounting,
    other than interest and penalties, the disallowance of the
    shorter deductibility period would not affect the annual
    effective tax rate but would accelerate the payment of cash to
    the taxing authority to an earlier period. The total amount of
    unrecognized tax benefits as of January 1, 2007 that would
    affect the effective tax rate, if recognized, was
    $654 million. The Company also had $210 million of
    accrued interest, included within other liabilities, as of
    January 1, 2007. The Company classifies interest accrued
    related to unrecognized tax benefits in interest expense, while
    penalties are included within income tax expense.

At December 31, 2007, the Company s total amount of
    unrecognized tax benefits was $840 million and the total
    amount of unrecognized tax benefits that would affect the
    effective tax rate, if recognized, was $565 million. The
    total amount of unrecognized tax benefits decreased by
    $92 million from the date of adoption primarily due to
    settlements reached with the IRS with respect to certain
    significant issues involving demutualization, post-sale purchase
    price adjustments and reinsurance offset by additions for tax
    positions of the current year. As a result of the settlements,
    items within the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, in the
    amount of $177 million, were reclassified to current and
    deferred income taxes, as applicable, and a payment of
    $156 million was made in December of 2007, with
    $6 million to be paid in 2009 and the remaining
    $15 million to be paid in future years.

At December 31, 2008, the Company s total amount of
    unrecognized tax benefits was $766 million and the total
    amount of unrecognized tax benefits that would affect the
    effective tax rate, if recognized, was $567 million. The
    total amount of unrecognized tax benefits decreased by
    $74 million from December 31, 2007 primarily due to
    settlements reached with the IRS with respect to certain
    significant issues involving demutualization, leasing and tax
    credits offset by additions for tax positions of the current
    year. As a result of the settlements, items within the liability
    for unrecognized tax benefits, in the amount of
    $153 million, were reclassified to current and deferred
    income taxes, as applicable. Of the $153 million
    reclassified to current and deferred income taxes,
    $20 million was paid in 2008 and $133 million will be
    paid in 2009.

The Company s liability for unrecognized tax benefits will
    change in the next 12 months pending the outcome of
    remaining issues associated with the current IRS audit including
    tax-exempt income and tax credits. Management is working to
    resolve the remaining audit items directly with IRS auditors, as
    well as through available accelerated IRS resolution programs
    and may protest any unresolved issues through the IRS appeals
    process and, possibly, litigation, the timing and extent of
    which is uncertain. At this time, a reasonable estimate of

F-104

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

the range of a payment or change in the liability is between
    $40 million and $50 million; however, the Company
    continues to believe that the ultimate resolution of the issues
    will not result in a material effect on its consolidated
    financial statements, although the resolution of income tax
    matters could impact the Company s effective tax rate for a
    particular future period.

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of
    unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended December 31,
    2008 and December 31, 2007, is as follows:

During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company
    recognized $81 million in interest expense associated with
    the liability for unrecognized tax benefits. At
    December 31, 2007, the Company had $218 million of
    accrued interest associated with the liability for unrecognized
    tax benefits. The $8 million increase, from the date of
    adoption, in accrued interest associated with the liability for
    unrecognized tax benefits resulted from an increase of
    $81 million of interest expense and a $73 million
    decrease primarily resulting from the aforementioned IRS
    settlements. During 2007, the $73 million resulting from
    IRS settlements was reclassified to current income tax payable
    and will be paid in 2009.

During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company
    recognized $37 million in interest expense associated with
    the liability for unrecognized tax benefits. At
    December 31, 2008, the Company had $176 million of
    accrued interest associated with the liability for unrecognized
    tax benefits. The $42 million decrease from
    December 31, 2007 in accrued interest associated with the
    liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulted from an
    increase of $37 million of interest expense and a
    $79 million decrease primarily resulting from the
    aforementioned IRS settlements. Of the $79 million
    decrease, $78 million has been reclassified to current
    income tax payable and the remaining $1 million reduced
    interest expense. Of the $78 million reclassified to
    current income tax payable, $7 million was paid in 2008 and
    the remainder of $71 million will be paid in 2009.

On September 25, 2007, the IRS issued Revenue Ruling
     2007-61, 
    which announced its intention to issue regulations with respect
    to certain computational aspects of the Dividends Received
    Deduction ( DRD ) on separate account assets held in
    connection with variable annuity contracts. Revenue Ruling
     2007-61 
    suspended a revenue ruling issued in August 2007 that would have
    changed accepted industry and IRS interpretations of the
    statutes governing these computational questions. Any
    regulations that the IRS ultimately proposes for issuance in
    this area will be subject to public notice and comment, at which
    time insurance companies and other interested parties will have
    the opportunity to raise legal and practical questions about the
    content, scope and application of such regulations. As a result,
    the ultimate timing and substance of any such regulations are
    unknown at this time. For the years ended December 31, 2008
    and 2007, the Company recognized an income tax benefit of
    $179 million and $188 million, respectively, related
    to the separate account DRD.

F-105

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

16.  Contingencies,
    Commitments and Guarantees  

Contingencies  

Litigation   

The Company is a defendant in a large number of litigation
    matters. In some of the matters, very large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages,
    are sought. Modern pleading practice in the United States
    permits considerable variation in the assertion of monetary
    damages or other relief. Jurisdictions may permit claimants not
    to specify the monetary damages sought or may permit claimants
    to state only that the amount sought is sufficient to invoke the
    jurisdiction of the trial court. In addition, jurisdictions may
    permit plaintiffs to allege monetary damages in amounts well
    exceeding reasonably possible verdicts in the jurisdiction for
    similar matters. This variability in pleadings, together with
    the actual experience of the Company in litigating or resolving
    through settlement numerous claims over an extended period of
    time, demonstrate to management that the monetary relief which
    may be specified in a lawsuit or claim bears little relevance to
    its merits or disposition value. Thus, unless stated below, the
    specific monetary relief sought is not noted.

Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation
    matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular
    points in time may normally be inherently impossible to
    ascertain with any degree of certainty. Inherent uncertainties
    can include how fact finders will view individually and in their
    totality documentary evidence, the credibility and effectiveness
    of witnesses  testimony, and how trial and appellate courts
    will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence
    presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal.
    Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of
    how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the
    relevant evidence and applicable law.

On a quarterly and annual basis, the Company reviews relevant
    information with respect to litigation and contingencies to be
    reflected in the Company s consolidated financial
    statements. In 2007, the Company received $39 million upon
    the resolution of an indemnification claim associated with the
    2000 acquisition of General American Life Insurance Company
    ( GALIC ), and the Company reduced legal liabilities
    by $38 million after the settlement of certain cases. The
    review includes senior legal and financial personnel. Unless
    stated below, estimates of possible losses or ranges of loss for
    particular matters cannot in the ordinary course be made with a
    reasonable degree of certainty. Liabilities are established when
    it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of
    the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities have been
    established for a number of the matters noted below; in 2007 the
    Company increased legal liabilities for pending sales practices,
    employment, property and casualty and intellectual property
    litigation matters against the Company. It is possible that some
    of the matters could require the Company to pay damages or make
    other expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that could
    not be estimated at December 31, 2008.

Demutualization
    Actions  

Several lawsuits were brought in 2000 challenging the fairness
    of the Plan and the adequacy and accuracy of MLIC s
    disclosure to policyholders regarding the Plan. The actions
    discussed below name as defendants some or all of MLIC, the
    Holding Company, and individual directors. MLIC, the Holding
    Company, and the individual directors believe they have
    meritorious defenses to the plaintiffs  claims and are
    contesting vigorously all of the plaintiffs  claims in
    these actions.

Fiala, et al. v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., et al. (Sup.
    Ct., N.Y. County, filed March 17, 2000).   The
    plaintiffs in the consolidated state court class action seek
    compensatory relief and punitive damages against MLIC, the
    Holding Company, and individual directors. The court has
    certified a litigation class of present and former policyholders
    on plaintiffs  claim that defendants violated
    section 7312 of the New York Insurance Law. Pursuant to the
    court s order, plaintiffs have given notice to the class of
    the pendency of this action. Defendants  motion for summary
    judgment is pending.

F-106

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

In re MetLife Demutualization Litig. (E.D.N.Y., filed
    April 18, 2000).   In this class action
    against MLIC and the Holding Company, plaintiffs served a second
    consolidated amended complaint in 2004. Plaintiffs assert
    violations of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934 in connection with the Plan, claiming that
    the Policyholder Information Booklets failed to disclose certain
    material facts and contained certain material misstatements.
    They seek rescission and compensatory damages. By orders dated
    July 19, 2005 and August 29, 2006, the federal trial
    court certified a litigation class of present and former
    policyholders. The court has directed the manner and form of
    notice to the class, but plaintiffs have not yet distributed the
    notice. MLIC and the Holding Company have moved for summary
    judgment, and plaintiffs have moved for partial summary
    judgment. The court heard oral argument on the parties 
    motions for summary judgment on September 19, 2008.

Asbestos-Related
    Claims  

MLIC is and has been a defendant in a large number of
    asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts. These
    suits principally allege that the plaintiff or plaintiffs
    suffered personal injury resulting from exposure to asbestos and
    seek both actual and punitive damages. MLIC has never engaged in
    the business of manufacturing, producing, distributing or
    selling asbestos or asbestos-containing products nor has MLIC
    issued liability or workers  compensation insurance to
    companies in the business of manufacturing, producing,
    distributing or selling asbestos or asbestos-containing
    products. The lawsuits principally have focused on allegations
    with respect to certain research, publication and other
    activities of one or more of MLIC s employees during the
    period from the 1920 s through approximately the
    1950 s and allege that MLIC learned or should have learned
    of certain health risks posed by asbestos and, among other
    things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those health
    risks. MLIC believes that it should not have legal liability in
    these cases. The outcome of most asbestos litigation matters,
    however, is uncertain and can be impacted by numerous variables,
    including differences in legal rulings in various jurisdictions,
    the nature of the alleged injury, and factors unrelated to the
    ultimate legal merit of the claims asserted against MLIC. MLIC
    employs a number of resolution strategies to manage its asbestos
    loss exposure, including seeking resolution of pending
    litigation by judicial rulings and settling individual or groups
    of claims or lawsuits under appropriate circumstances.

Claims asserted against MLIC have included negligence,
    intentional tort and conspiracy concerning the health risks
    associated with asbestos. MLIC s defenses (beyond denial of
    certain factual allegations) include that: (i) MLIC owed no
    duty to the plaintiffs   it had no special
    relationship with the plaintiffs and did not manufacture,
    produce, distribute or sell the asbestos products that allegedly
    injured plaintiffs; (ii) plaintiffs did not rely on any
    actions of MLIC; (iii) MLIC s conduct was not the
    cause of the plaintiffs  injuries;
    (iv) plaintiffs  exposure occurred after the dangers
    of asbestos were known; and (v) the applicable time with
    respect to filing suit has expired. During the course of the
    litigation, certain trial courts have granted motions dismissing
    claims against MLIC, while other trial courts have denied
    MLIC s motions to dismiss. There can be no assurance that
    MLIC will receive favorable decisions on motions in the future.
    While most cases brought to date have settled, MLIC intends to
    continue to defend aggressively against claims based on asbestos
    exposure, including defending claims at trials.

The approximate total number of asbestos personal injury claims
    pending against MLIC as of the dates indicated, the approximate
    number of new claims during the years ended on those dates and
    the approximate total settlement payments made to resolve
    asbestos personal injury claims at or during those years are set
    forth in the following table:

F-107

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(1)  

Settlement payments represent payments made by MLIC during the
    year in connection with settlements made in that year and in
    prior years. Amounts do not include MLIC s attorneys 
    fees and expenses and do not reflect amounts received from
    insurance carriers. 

In 2005, MLIC received approximately 18,500 new claims, ending
    the year with a total of approximately 100,250 claims, and paid
    approximately $74.3 million for settlements reached in 2005
    and prior years. In 2004, MLIC received approximately 23,900 new
    claims, ending the year with a total of approximately 108,000
    claims, and paid approximately $85.5 million for
    settlements reached in 2004 and prior years. In 2003, MLIC
    received approximately 58,750 new claims, ending the year with a
    total of approximately 111,700 claims, and paid approximately
    $84.2 million for settlements reached in 2003 and prior
    years. The number of asbestos cases that may be brought, the
    aggregate amount of any liability that MLIC may incur, and the
    total amount paid in settlements in any given year are uncertain
    and may vary significantly from year to year.

The ability of MLIC to estimate its ultimate asbestos exposure
    is subject to considerable uncertainty, and the conditions
    impacting its liability can be dynamic and subject to change.
    The availability of reliable data is limited and it is difficult
    to predict with any certainty the numerous variables that can
    affect liability estimates, including the number of future
    claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity
    of disease in pending and future claims, the impact of the
    number of new claims filed in a particular jurisdiction and
    variations in the law in the jurisdictions in which claims are
    filed, the possible impact of tort reform efforts, the
    willingness of courts to allow plaintiffs to pursue claims
    against MLIC when exposure to asbestos took place after the
    dangers of asbestos exposure were well known, and the impact of
    any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts.

The ability to make estimates regarding ultimate asbestos
    exposure declines significantly as the estimates relate to years
    further in the future. In the Company s judgment, there is
    a future point after which losses cease to be probable and
    reasonably estimable. It is reasonably possible that the
    Company s total exposure to asbestos claims may be
    materially greater than the asbestos liability currently accrued
    and that future charges to income may be necessary. While the
    potential future charges could be material in the particular
    quarterly or annual periods in which they are recorded, based on
    information currently known by management, management does not
    believe any such charges are likely to have a material adverse
    effect on the Company s financial position.

During 1998, MLIC paid $878 million in premiums for excess
    insurance policies for asbestos-related claims. The excess
    insurance policies for asbestos-related claims provided for
    recovery of losses up to $1.5 billion in excess of a
    $400 million self-insured retention. The Company s
    initial option to commute the excess insurance policies for
    asbestos-related claims would have arisen at the end of 2008. On
    September 29, 2008, MLIC entered into agreements commuting
    the excess insurance policies as of September 30, 2008. As
    a result of the commutation of the policies, MLIC received cash
    and securities totaling $632 million. Of this total, MLIC
    received $115 million in fixed maturity securities on
    September 26, 2008, $200 million in cash on
    October 29, 2008, and $317 million in cash on
    January 29, 2009. MLIC recognized a loss on commutation of
    the policies in the amount of $35.3 million during 2008.

In the years prior to commutation, the excess insurance policies
    for asbestos-related claims were subject to annual and per claim
    sublimits. Amounts exceeding the sublimits during 2007, 2006 and
    2005 were approximately $16 million, $8 million and
    $0, respectively. Amounts were recoverable under the policies
    annually with respect to claims paid during the prior calendar
    year. Each asbestos-related policy contained an experience fund
    and a reference fund that provided for payments to MLIC at the
    commutation date if the reference fund was greater than zero at
    commutation or pro rata reductions from time to time in the loss
    reimbursements to MLIC if the cumulative return on the reference
    fund was less than the return specified in the experience fund.
    The return in the reference fund was tied to performance of the
    S P 500 Index and the Lehman Brothers Aggregate Bond Index.
    A claim with respect to the prior year was made under the excess
    insurance policies in each year from 2003 through 2008 for the
    amounts paid with respect to asbestos litigation in excess of
    the retention. The foregone loss reimbursements were
    approximately $62.2 million with respect to claims for the
    period of 2002 through 2007. Because the policies were

F-108

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

commuted as of September 30, 2008, there will be no claims
    under the policies or forgone loss reimbursements with respect
    to payments made in 2008 and thereafter.

The Company believes adequate provision has been made in its
    consolidated financial statements for all probable and
    reasonably estimable losses for asbestos-related claims.
    MLIC s recorded asbestos liability is based on its
    estimation of the following elements, as informed by the facts
    presently known to it, its understanding of current law, and its
    past experiences: (i) the probable and reasonably estimable
    liability for asbestos claims already asserted against MLIC,
    including claims settled but not yet paid; (ii) the
    probable and reasonably estimable liability for asbestos claims
    not yet asserted against MLIC, but which MLIC believes are
    reasonably probable of assertion; and (iii) the legal
    defense costs associated with the foregoing claims. Significant
    assumptions underlying MLIC s analysis of the adequacy of
    its recorded liability with respect to asbestos litigation
    include: (i) the number of future claims; (ii) the
    cost to resolve claims; and (iii) the cost to defend claims.

MLIC reevaluates on a quarterly and annual basis its exposure
    from asbestos litigation, including studying its claims
    experience, reviewing external literature regarding asbestos
    claims experience in the United States, assessing relevant
    trends impacting asbestos liability and considering numerous
    variables that can affect its asbestos liability exposure on an
    overall or per claim basis. These variables include bankruptcies
    of other companies involved in asbestos litigation, legislative
    and judicial developments, the number of pending claims
    involving serious disease, the number of new claims filed
    against it and other defendants, and the jurisdictions in which
    claims are pending. As previously disclosed, in 2002 MLIC
    increased its recorded liability for asbestos-related claims by
    $402 million from approximately $820 million to
    $1,225 million. Based upon its regular reevaluation of its
    exposure from asbestos litigation, MLIC has updated its
    liability analysis for asbestos-related claims through
    December 31, 2008.

Regulatory
    Matters  

The Company receives and responds to subpoenas or other
    inquiries from state regulators, including state insurance
    commissioners; state attorneys general or other state
    governmental authorities; federal regulators, including the SEC;
    federal governmental authorities, including congressional
    committees; and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
    seeking a broad range of information. The issues involved in
    information requests and regulatory matters vary widely. Certain
    regulators have requested information and documents regarding
    contingent commission payments to brokers, the Company s
    awareness of any  sham  bids for business, bids and
    quotes that the Company submitted to potential customers,
    incentive agreements entered into with brokers, or compensation
    paid to intermediaries. Regulators also have requested
    information relating to market timing and late trading of mutual
    funds and variable insurance products and, generally, the
    marketing of products. The Company has received a subpoena from
    the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District
    of California asking for documents regarding the insurance
    broker Universal Life Resources. The Company has been
    cooperating fully with these inquiries.

Regulatory authorities in a small number of states have had
    investigations or inquiries relating to sales of individual life
    insurance policies or annuities or other products by MLIC; New
    England Mutual Life Insurance Company, New England Life
    Insurance Company and New England Securities Corporation
    (collectively  New England  GALIC; Walnut Street
    Securities, Inc. ( Walnut Street Securities ) and
    MetLife Securities, Inc. ( MSI ). Over the past
    several years, these and a number of investigations by other
    regulatory authorities were resolved for monetary payments and
    certain other relief. The Company may continue to resolve
    investigations in a similar manner.

MSI is a defendant in two regulatory matters brought by the
    Illinois Department of Securities. In 2005, MSI received a
    notice from the Illinois Department of Securities asserting
    possible violations of the Illinois Securities Act in connection
    with sales of a former affiliate s mutual funds. A response
    has been submitted and in January 2008, MSI received notice of
    the commencement of an administrative action by the Illinois
    Department of Securities. In May 2008, MSI s motion to
    dismiss the action was denied. In the second matter, in December
    2008

F-109

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

MSI received a Notice of Hearing from the Illinois Department of
    Securities based upon a complaint alleging that MSI failed to
    reasonably supervise one of its former registered
    representatives in connection with the sale of variable
    annuities to Illinois investors. MSI intends to vigorously
    defend against the claims in these matters.

In June 2008, the Environmental Protection Agency issued a
    Notice of Violation ( NOV ) regarding the operations
    of the Homer City Generating Station, an electrical generation
    facility. The NOV alleges, among other things, that the
    electrical generation facility is being operated in violation of
    certain federal and state Clean Air Act requirements. Homer City
    OL6 LLC, an entity owned by MLIC, is a passive investor with a
    minority interest in the electrical generation facility, which
    is solely operated by the lessee, EME Homer City Generation L.P.
    ( EME Homer ). Homer City OL6 LLC and EME Homer are
    among the respondents identified in the NOV. EME Homer has been
    notified of its obligation to indemnify Homer City OL6 LLC and
    MLIC for any claims resulting from the NOV and has expressly
    acknowledged its obligation to indemnify Homer City OL6 LLC.

Other
    Litigation  

Jacynthe Evoy-Larouche v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co.
    (Que. Super. Ct., filed March 1998).   This
    putative class action lawsuit involving sales practices claims
    is pending against MLIC in Canada. Plaintiff alleges
    misrepresentations regarding dividends and future payments for
    life insurance policies and seeks unspecified damages.

Travelers Ins. Co., et al. v. Banc of America Securities
    LLC (S.D.N.Y., filed December 13, 2001).   On
    January 6, 2009, after a jury trial ,  the district
    court entered a judgment in favor of The Travelers Insurance
    Company, now known as MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut,
    in the amount of approximately $42 million in connection
    with securities and common law claims against the defendant. The
    defendant has filed a post judgment motion seeking a judgment in
    its favor or, in the alternative, a new trial. If this motion is
    denied, the defendant will likely file an appeal. As it is
    possible that the judgment could be affected during the post
    judgment motion practice or upon appeal, and the Company has not
    collected any portion of the judgment, the Company has not
    recognized any award amount in its consolidated financial
    statements.

Shipley v. St. Paul Fire and Marine Ins. Co. and
    Metropolitan Property and Casualty Ins. Co. (Ill. Cir. Ct.,
    Madison County, filed February 26 and July 2,
    2003).   Two putative nationwide class actions have
    been filed against Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance
    Company in Illinois. One suit claims breach of contract and
    fraud due to the alleged underpayment of medical claims arising
    from the use of a purportedly biased provider fee pricing
    system. The second suit currently alleges breach of contract
    arising from the alleged use of preferred provider organizations
    to reduce medical provider fees covered by the medical claims
    portion of the insurance policy. Motions for class certification
    have been filed and briefed in both cases. A third putative
    nationwide class action relating to the payment of medical
    providers,  Innovative Physical Therapy, Inc. v. MetLife
    Auto   Home, et ano (D. N.J., filed November 12,
    2007),  was filed against Metropolitan Property and Casualty
    Insurance Company in federal court in New Jersey. The court
    granted the defendants  motion to dismiss, and plaintiff
    appealed the dismissal. The Company is vigorously defending
    against the claims in these matters.

The American Dental Association, et al. v. MetLife Inc., et
    al. (S.D. Fla., filed May 19, 2003).   The
    American Dental Association and three individual providers have
    sued the Holding Company, MLIC and other non-affiliated
    insurance companies in a putative class action lawsuit. The
    plaintiffs purport to represent a nationwide class of
     in-network 
    providers who allege that their claims are being wrongfully
    reduced by downcoding, bundling, and the improper use and
    programming of software. The complaint alleges federal
    racketeering and various state law theories of liability. On
    February 10, 2009, the district court granted the
    Company s motion to dismiss plaintiffs  second amended
    complaint, dismissing all of plaintiffs  claims except for
    breach of contract claims. Plaintiffs have been provided with an
    opportunity to re-plead the dismissed claims by
    February 26, 2009.

In Re Ins. Brokerage Antitrust Litig. (D. N.J., filed
    February 24, 2005).   In this multi-district
    class action proceeding, plaintiffs  complaint alleged that
    the Holding Company, MLIC, several non-affiliated insurance

F-110

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

companies and several insurance brokers violated the Racketeer
    Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act ( RICO ), the
    Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
    ( ERISA ), and antitrust laws and committed other
    misconduct in the context of providing insurance to employee
    benefit plans and to persons who participate in such employee
    benefit plans. In August and September 2007 and January 2008,
    the court issued orders granting defendants  motions to
    dismiss with prejudice the federal antitrust, the RICO, and the
    ERISA claims. In February 2008, the court dismissed the
    remaining state law claims on jurisdictional grounds.
    Plaintiffs  appeal from the orders dismissing their RICO
    and federal antitrust claims is pending with the U.S. Court
    of Appeals for the Third Circuit. A putative class action
    alleging that the Holding Company and other non-affiliated
    defendants violated state laws was transferred to the District
    of New Jersey but was not consolidated with other related
    actions. Plaintiffs  motion to remand this action to state
    court in Florida is pending.

MetLife v. Park Avenue Securities, et. al. (FINRA
    Arbitration, filed May 2006).   MetLife commenced
    an action against Park Avenue Securities LLC., a registered
    investment adviser and broker-dealer that is an indirect
    wholly-owned subsidiary of The Guardian Life Insurance Company
    of America, alleging misappropriation of confidential and
    proprietary information and use of prohibited methods to solicit
    MetLife customers and recruit MetLife financial services
    representatives. On February 12, 2009, a Financial Industry
    Regulatory Authority ( FINRA ) arbitration panel
    awarded MetLife $21 million in damages, including punitive
    damages and attorneys fees. Park Avenue Securities may appeal
    the award.

Thomas, et al. v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., et al. (W.D.
    Okla., filed January 31, 2007).   A putative
    class action complaint was filed against MLIC and MSI.
    Plaintiffs assert legal theories of violations of the federal
    securities laws and violations of state laws with respect to the
    sale of certain proprietary products by the Company s
    agency distribution group. Plaintiffs seek rescission,
    compensatory damages, interest, punitive damages and
    attorneys  fees and expenses. In January and May 2008, the
    court issued orders granting the defendants  motion to
    dismiss in part, dismissing all of plaintiffs  claims
    except for claims under the Investment Advisers Act.
    Defendants  motion to dismiss claims under the Investment
    Advisers Act was denied. The Company will vigorously defend
    against the remaining claims in this matter.

Sales Practices Claims.   Over the past several
    years, MLIC, New England, GALIC, Walnut Street Securities and
    MSI have faced numerous claims, including class action lawsuits,
    alleging improper marketing or sales of individual life
    insurance policies, annuities, mutual funds or other products.
    Some of the current cases seek substantial damages, including
    punitive and treble damages and attorneys  fees. At
    December 31, 2008, there were approximately 125 sales
    practices litigation matters pending against the Company. The
    Company continues to vigorously defend against the claims in
    these matters. The Company believes adequate provision has been
    made in its consolidated financial statements for all probable
    and reasonably estimable losses for sales practices claims
    against MLIC, New England, GALIC, MSI and Walnut Street
    Securities.

Summary  

Putative or certified class action litigation and other
    litigation and claims and assessments against the Company, in
    addition to those discussed previously and those otherwise
    provided for in the Company s consolidated financial
    statements, have arisen in the course of the Company s
    business, including, but not limited to, in connection with its
    activities as an insurer, employer, investor, investment advisor
    and taxpayer. Further, state insurance regulatory authorities
    and other federal and state authorities regularly make inquiries
    and conduct investigations concerning the Company s
    compliance with applicable insurance and other laws and
    regulations.

It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of all
    pending investigations and legal proceedings or provide
    reasonable ranges of potential losses, except as noted
    previously in connection with specific matters. In some of the
    matters referred to previously, very large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages,
    are sought. Although in light of these considerations it is
    possible that an adverse outcome in certain cases could have a
    material adverse effect upon the Company s financial
    position, based on information currently known by the
    Company s management, in its opinion, the outcomes of such
    pending investigations and legal proceedings are not

F-111

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

likely to have such an effect. However, given the large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the
    inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an
    adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time,
    have a material adverse effect on the Company s
    consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or
    annual periods.

Insolvency
    Assessments   

Most of the jurisdictions in which the Company is admitted to
    transact business require insurers doing business within the
    jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are
    organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance
    policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These
    associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all
    member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the
    proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers
    in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or
    failed insurer engaged. Some states permit member insurers to
    recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax
    offsets. Assets and liabilities held for insolvency assessments
    are as follows:

(1)  

The Company holds a receivable from the seller of a prior
    acquisition in accordance with the purchase agreement. 

Assessments levied against the Company were $2 million,
    ($1) million and $2 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Argentina   

The Argentine economic, regulatory and legal environment,
    including interpretations of laws and regulations by regulators
    and courts, is uncertain. Potential legal or governmental
    actions related to pension reform, fiduciary responsibilities,
    performance guarantees and tax rulings could adversely affect
    the results of the Company.

Upon acquisition of Citigroup s insurance operations in
    Argentina, the Company established insurance and contingent
    liabilities, most significantly related to death and disability
    policy coverages and to litigation against the government s
    2002 Pesification Law. These liabilities were established based
    upon the Company s interpretation of Argentine law at the
    time and the Company s best estimate of its obligations
    under laws applicable at the time.

In 2006, a decree was issued by the Argentine Government
    regarding the taxability of pesification related gains resulting
    in the $8 million, net of income tax, reduction of certain
    tax liabilities during the year ended December 31, 2006.

In 2007, pension reform legislation in Argentina was enacted
    which relieved the Company of its obligation to provide death
    and disability policy coverages and resulted in the elimination
    of related insurance liabilities. The reform reinstituted the
    government s pension plan system and allowed for pension
    participants to transfer their future contributions to the
    government pension plan system.

F-112

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Although it no longer receives compensation, the Company
    continued to be responsible for managing the funds of those
    participants that transferred to the government system. This
    change resulted in the establishment of a liability for future
    servicing obligations and the elimination of the Company s
    obligations under death and disability policy coverages. The
    impact of the 2007 Argentine pension reform was an increase to
    net income of $114 million, net of income tax, due to the
    reduction of the insurance liabilities and other balances
    associated with the death and disability coverages of
    $197 million, net of income tax, which exceeded the
    establishment of the liability for future service obligations of
    $83 million, net of income tax, during the year ended
    December 31, 2007. During the first quarter of 2008, the
    future servicing obligation was reduced by $23 million, net
    of income tax, when information regarding the level of
    participation in the government pension plan became fully
    available.

In October 2008, the Argentine government announced its
    intention to nationalize private pensions and, in December 2008,
    the Argentine government nationalized the private pension system
    seizing the underlying investments of participants which were
    being managed by the Company ( Nationalization ). With
    this action, the Company s pension business in Argentina
    ceased to exist and the Company eliminated certain assets and
    liabilities held in connection with the pension business.
    Deferred acquisition costs deferred tax assets, and
    liabilities   primarily the liability for future
    servicing obligation referred to above   were
    eliminated and the Company incurred severance costs associated
    with the termination of employees. The impact of the elimination
    of assets and liabilities and the incurral of severance costs
    was an increase to net income of $6 million, net of income
    tax, during the year ended December 31, 2008.

In September 2008, the Argentine Supreme Court ruled against the
    validity of the 2002 Pesification Law enacted by the Argentine
    government. This ruling applied to certain social security
    pension annuity contractholders that had filed a lawsuit against
    the 2002 Pesification Law. The annuity contracts impacted by
    this ruling, which were deemed peso denominated under the 2002
    Pesification Law, are now considered to be U.S. dollar
    denominated obligations of the Company. Contingent liabilities
    that were established at acquisition in 2005 in connection with
    the outstanding lawsuits have been adjusted and refined to be
    consistent with the ruling. The impact of the refinements
    resulting from the change in these contingent liabilities and
    the associated future policyholder benefits was an increase to
    net income of $34 million, net of income tax, during the
    year ended December 31, 2008.

As part of Nationalization, the Company may receive compensation
    from the Argentine government for the loss of the pension
    business in the form of government bonds. The amount of any such
    compensation, as well as the terms and value of the government
    bonds to be received, cannot be determined at this time. The
    compensation will only be reflected in the consolidated
    financial statements of the Company if and when the fair value
    of the compensation is received.

Further governmental or legal actions are possible in Argentina.
    Such actions may impact the level of existing liabilities or may
    create additional obligations or benefits to the Company s
    operations in Argentina. Management has made its best estimate
    of its obligations based upon information currently available;
    however, further governmental or legal actions could result in
    changes in obligations which could materially impact the amounts
    presented within the consolidated financial statements.

Commitments  

Leases   

In accordance with industry practice, certain of the
    Company s income from lease agreements with retail tenants
    are contingent upon the level of the tenants  sales
    revenues. Additionally, the Company, as lessee, has entered into
    various lease and sublease agreements for office space, data
    processing and other equipment. Future

F-113

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

minimum rental and sublease income, and minimum gross rental
    payments relating to these lease agreements are as follows:

During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company moved certain of
    its operations in New York from Long Island City to New York
    City. As a result of this movement of operations and current
    market conditions, which precluded the Company s immediate
    and complete sublet of all unused space in both Long Island City
    and New York City, the Company incurred a lease impairment
    charge of $38 million which is included within other
    expenses in Corporate   Other. The impairment charge
    was determined based upon the present value of the gross rental
    payments less sublease income discounted at a risk-adjusted rate
    over the remaining lease terms which range from
     15-20 years. 
    The Company has made assumptions with respect to the timing and
    amount of future sublease income in the determination of this
    impairment charge. Additional impairment charges could be
    incurred should market conditions deteriorate further or last
    for a period significantly longer than anticipated.

Commitments
    to Fund Partnership Investments   

The Company makes commitments to fund partnership investments in
    the normal course of business. The amounts of these unfunded
    commitments were $4.5 billion and $4.2 billion at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company
    anticipates that these amounts will be invested in partnerships
    over the next five years.

Mortgage
    Loan Commitments   

The Company has issued interest rate lock commitments on certain
    residential mortgage loan applications totaling
    $8.0 billion at December 31, 2008. The Company intends
    to sell the majority of these originated residential mortgage
    loans. Interest rate lock commitments to fund mortgage loans
    that will be held-for-sale are considered derivatives pursuant
    to SFAS 133, and their estimated fair value and notional
    amounts are included within financial forwards in Note 4.

The Company also commits to lend funds under certain other
    mortgage loan commitments that will be held-for-investment. The
    amounts of these mortgage loan commitments were
    $2.7 billion and $4.0 billion at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively.

Commitments
    to Fund Bank Credit Facilities, Bridge Loans and Private
    Corporate Bond Investments   

The Company commits to lend funds under bank credit facilities,
    bridge loans and private corporate bond investments. The amounts
    of these unfunded commitments were $1.0 billion and
    $1.2 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

Guarantees  

In the normal course of its business, the Company has provided
    certain indemnities, guarantees and commitments to third parties
    pursuant to which it may be required to make payments now or in
    the future. In the context of acquisition, disposition,
    investment and other transactions, the Company has provided
    indemnities and guarantees, including those related to tax,
    environmental and other specific liabilities, and other
    indemnities

F-114

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

and guarantees that are triggered by, among other things,
    breaches of representations, warranties or covenants provided by
    the Company. In addition, in the normal course of business, the
    Company provides indemnifications to counterparties in contracts
    with triggers similar to the foregoing, as well as for certain
    other liabilities, such as third party lawsuits. These
    obligations are often subject to time limitations that vary in
    duration, including contractual limitations and those that arise
    by operation of law, such as applicable statutes of limitation.
    In some cases, the maximum potential obligation under the
    indemnities and guarantees is subject to a contractual
    limitation ranging from less than $1 million to
    $800 million, with a cumulative maximum of
    $1.6 billion, while in other cases such limitations are not
    specified or applicable. Since certain of these obligations are
    not subject to limitations, the Company does not believe that it
    is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that could
    become due under these guarantees in the future. Management
    believes that it is unlikely the Company will have to make any
    material payments under these indemnities, guarantees, or
    commitments.

In addition, the Company indemnifies its directors and officers
    as provided in its charters and by-laws. Also, the Company
    indemnifies its agents for liabilities incurred as a result of
    their representation of the Company s interests. Since
    these indemnities are generally not subject to limitation with
    respect to duration or amount, the Company does not believe that
    it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that
    could become due under these indemnities in the future.

The Company has also guaranteed minimum investment returns on
    certain international retirement funds in accordance with local
    laws. Since these guarantees are not subject to limitation with
    respect to duration or amount, the Company does not believe that
    it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that
    could become due under these guarantees in the future.

During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company
    recorded $7 million of additional liabilities for
    guarantees related to certain investment transactions. The term
    for these guarantees and their associated liabilities varies,
    with a maximum of 18 years. The maximum potential amount of
    future payments the Company could be required to pay under these
    guarantees is $202 million. During the year ended
    December 31, 2008, the Company reduced $7 million of
    previously recorded liabilities related to indemnifications
    provided in connection with the disposition of real estate
    property and other investment transactions. The Company s
    recorded liabilities were $6 million at both
    December 31, 2008 and 2007 for indemnities, guarantees and
    commitments.

In connection with synthetically created investment
    transactions, the Company writes credit default swap obligations
    that generally require payment of principal outstanding due in
    exchange for the referenced credit obligation. If a credit
    event, as defined by the contract, occurs the Company s
    maximum amount at risk, assuming the value of all referenced
    credits obligations is zero, was $1.9 billion at
    December 31, 2008. The Company can terminate these
    contracts at any time through cash settlement with the
    counterparty at an amount equal to the then current fair value
    of the credit default swaps. As of December 31, 2008, the
    Company would have paid $37 million to terminate all of
    these contracts.

See Note 4 for further disclosures related to credit
    default swap obligations.

17.    

Employee
    Benefit Plans  

Pension
    and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans   

The Subsidiaries sponsor
     and/or 
    administer various qualified and non-qualified defined benefit
    pension plans and other postretirement employee benefit plans
    covering employees and sales representatives who meet specified
    eligibility requirements. Pension benefits are provided
    utilizing either a traditional formula or cash balance formula.
    The traditional formula provides benefits based upon years of
    credited service and either final average or career average
    earnings. The cash balance formula utilizes hypothetical or
    notional accounts which credit participants with benefits equal
    to a percentage of eligible pay, as well as earnings credits,
    determined annually based upon the average annual rate of
    interest on
     30-year 
    U.S. Treasury securities, for each account balance. At
    December 31, 2008, the majority of active participants are
    accruing benefits under the cash balance formula; however,

F-115

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

approximately 95% of the Subsidiaries  obligations result
    from benefits calculated with the traditional formula. The
    non-qualified pension plans provide supplemental benefits, in
    excess of amounts permitted by governmental agencies, to certain
    executive level employees.

The Subsidiaries also provide certain postemployment benefits
    and certain postretirement medical and life insurance benefits
    for retired employees. Employees of the Subsidiaries who were
    hired prior to 2003 (or, in certain cases, rehired during or
    after 2003) and meet age and service criteria while working
    for one of the Subsidiaries, may become eligible for these other
    postretirement benefits, at various levels, in accordance with
    the applicable plans. Virtually all retirees, or their
    beneficiaries, contribute a portion of the total cost of
    postretirement medical benefits. Employees hired after 2003 are
    not eligible for any employer subsidy for postretirement medical
    benefits.

As described more fully in Note 1, effective
    December 31, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 158. The
    adoption of SFAS 158 required the recognition of the funded
    status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement
    benefit plans and eliminated the additional minimum pension
    liability provision of SFAS 87. The Company s
    additional minimum pension liability was $78 million, and
    the intangible asset was $12 million, at December 31,
    2005. The excess of the additional minimum pension liability
    over the intangible asset of $66 million, $41 million
    net of income tax, was recorded as a reduction of accumulated
    other comprehensive income. At December 31, 2006,
    immediately prior to adopting SFAS 158, the Company s
    additional minimum pension liability was $92 million. The
    additional minimum pension liability of $59 million, net of
    income tax of $33 million, was recorded as a reduction of
    accumulated other comprehensive income. The change in the
    additional minimum pension liability of $18 million, net of
    income tax, was reflected as a component of comprehensive income
    for the year ended December 31, 2006. Upon adoption of
    SFAS 158, the Company eliminated the additional minimum
    pension liability and recognized as an adjustment to accumulated
    other comprehensive income (loss), net of income tax, those
    amounts of actuarial gains and losses, prior service costs and
    credits, and the remaining net transition asset or obligation
    that had not yet been included in net periodic benefit cost at
    the date of adoption.

The following table summarizes the adjustments to the
    December 31, 2006 consolidated balance sheet as a result of
    recognizing the funded status of the defined benefit plans:

A December 31 measurement date is used for all of the
    Subsidiaries  defined benefit pension and other
    postretirement benefit plans.

F-116

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Obligations,
    Funded Status and Net Periodic Benefit Costs   

F-117

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The aggregate projected benefit obligation and aggregate fair
    value of plan assets for the pension plans were as follows:

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit
    pension plans was $5,620 million and $5,302 million at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Information for pension plans with an accumulated benefit
    obligation in excess of plan assets is as follows:

Information for pension and other postretirement benefit plans
    with a projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets is
    as follows:

F-118

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The components of net periodic benefit cost and other changes in
    plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other
    comprehensive income (loss) were as follows:

Included within other comprehensive income (loss) are other
    changes in plan assets and benefit obligations associated with
    pension benefits of $1,503 million and other postretirement
    benefits of $333 million for an aggregate reduction in
    other comprehensive income (loss) of $1,836 million before
    income tax and $1,203 million, net of income tax and
    minority interest.

The estimated net actuarial losses and prior service cost for
    the pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic benefit cost over
    the next year are $198 million and $9 million,
    respectively.

The estimated net actuarial losses and prior service credit for
    the defined benefit other postretirement benefit plans that will
    be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
    into net periodic benefit cost over the next year are
    $10 million and ($36) million, respectively.

In 2004, the Company adopted the guidance in FSP
     No. 106-2, 
     Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the
    Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of
    2003
      ( FSP 106-2 ), 
    to account for future subsidies to be received under the
    Prescription Drug Act. The Company began receiving these
    subsidies

F-119

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

during 2006. A summary of the reduction to the APBO and related
    reduction to the components of net periodic other postretirement
    benefit plan cost is as follows:

The Company received subsidies of $12 million and
    $10 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and
    2007, respectively.

Assumptions  

Assumptions used in determining benefit obligations were as
    follows:

Assumptions used in determining net periodic benefit cost were
    as follows:

The discount rate is determined annually based on the yield,
    measured on a yield to worst basis, of a hypothetical portfolio
    constructed of high quality debt instruments available on the
    valuation date, which would provide the necessary future cash
    flows to pay the aggregate projected benefit obligation when due.

F-120

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on
    anticipated performance of the various asset sectors in which
    the plan invests, weighted by target allocation percentages.
    Anticipated future performance is based on long-term historical
    returns of the plan assets by sector, adjusted for the
    Subsidiaries  long-term expectations on the performance of
    the markets. While the precise expected return derived using
    this approach will fluctuate from year to year, the
    Subsidiaries  policy is to hold this long-term assumption
    constant as long as it remains within reasonable tolerance from
    the derived rate.

The weighted average expected return on plan assets for use in
    that plan s valuation in 2009 is currently anticipated to
    be 8.25% for pension benefits and postretirement medical
    benefits and 6.25% for postretirement life benefits.

The assumed healthcare cost trend rates used in measuring the
    APBO and net periodic benefit cost were as follows:

Assumed healthcare cost trend rates may have a significant
    effect on the amounts reported for healthcare plans. A
    one-percentage point change in assumed healthcare cost trend
    rates would have the following effects:

One Percent 

One Percent 

Increase 

Decrease 

(In millions) 

Effect on total of service and interest cost components

$

6

$

(6

)

Effect of accumulated postretirement benefit obligation

$

76

$

(86

)

Plan
    Assets   

The Subsidiaries have issued group annuity and life insurance
    contracts supporting approximately 99% of all pension and other
    postretirement benefit plans assets.

The account values of the group annuity and life insurance
    contracts issued by the Subsidiaries and held as assets of the
    pension and other postretirement benefit plans were
    $6,451 million and $7,565 million at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively. The majority of such account values
    are held in separate accounts established by the Subsidiaries.
    Total revenue from these contracts recognized in the
    consolidated statements of income was $42 million,
    $47 million and $48 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and
    includes policy charges, net investment income from investments
    backing the contracts and administrative fees. Total investment
    income (loss), including realized and unrealized gains and
    losses, credited to the account balances were
    ($1,090) million, $603 million and $818 million
    for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. The terms of these contracts are consistent in all
    material respects with those the Subsidiaries offer to
    unaffiliated parties that are similarly situated.

F-121

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The weighted-average allocations of pension plan and other
    postretirement benefit plan assets were as follows:

The weighted-average target allocations of pension plan and
    other postretirement benefit plan assets for 2009 are as follows:

Target allocations of assets are determined with the objective
    of maximizing returns and minimizing volatility of net assets
    through adequate asset diversification. Adjustments are made to
    target allocations based on an assessment of the impact of
    economic factors and market conditions.

Cash
    Flows   

It is the Subsidiaries  practice to make contributions to
    the qualified pension plans to comply with minimum funding
    requirements of ERISA. In accordance with such practice, no
    contributions were required for the years ended
    December 31, 2008 or 2007. No contributions will be
    required for 2009. The Subsidiaries made discretionary
    contributions of $300 million to the qualified pension
    plans during the year ended December 31, 2008 and did not
    make discretionary contributions for the year ended
    December 31, 2007. The Subsidiaries expect to make
    additional discretionary contributions of $150 million in
    2009.

Benefit payments due under the non-qualified pension plans are
    funded from the Subsidiaries  general assets as they become
    due under the provision of the plans. These payments totaled
    $43 million and $48 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These payments
    are expected to be at approximately the same level in 2009.

Other postretirement benefits represent a non-vested,
    non-guaranteed obligation of the Subsidiaries and current
    regulations do not require specific funding levels for these
    benefits. While the Subsidiaries have partially funded such
    plans in advance, it has been the Subsidiaries  practice to
    primarily use their general assets, net of participant s
    contributions, to pay postretirement medical claims as they come
    due in lieu of utilizing plan assets. Total payments equaled
    $149 million and $173 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

The Subsidiaries  expect to make contributions of
    $120 million, net of participant s contributions,
    towards the other postretirement plan obligations in 2009. As
    noted previously, the Subsidiaries expect to receive subsidies
    under the Prescription Drug Act to partially offset such
    payments.

F-122

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Gross benefit payments for the next ten years, which reflect
    expected future service where appropriate, and gross subsidies
    to be received under the Prescription Drug Act are expected to
    be as follows:

Savings
    and Investment Plans   

The Subsidiaries sponsor savings and investment plans for
    substantially all employees under which a portion of employee
    contributions are matched. The Subsidiaries contributed
    $70 million, $76 million and $80 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Preferred
    Stock   

In September 1999, the Holding Company adopted a stockholder
    rights plan (the  rights plan ) under which each
    outstanding share of common stock issued between April 4,
    2000 and the distribution date (as defined in the rights plan)
    will be coupled with a stockholder right. Each right will
    entitle the holder to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of
    Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock. Each one
    one-hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating
    Preferred Stock will have economic and voting terms equivalent
    to one share of common stock. Until it is exercised, the right
    itself will not entitle the holder thereof to any rights as a
    stockholder, including the right to receive dividends or to vote
    at stockholder meetings. Stockholder rights are not exercisable
    until the distribution date, and will expire at the close of
    business on April 4, 2010, unless earlier redeemed or
    exchanged by the Holding Company. The rights plan is designed to
    protect stockholders in the event of unsolicited offers to
    acquire the Holding Company and other coercive takeover tactics.

The Holding Company has outstanding 24 million shares of
    Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (the
     Series A preferred shares ) with a
    $0.01 par value per share, and a liquidation preference of
    $25 per share, for aggregate proceeds of $600 million.

The Holding Company has outstanding 60 million shares of
    6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B (the
     Series B preferred shares ), with a
    $0.01 par value per share, and a liquidation preference of
    $25 per share, for aggregate proceeds of $1.5 billion.

The Series A and Series B preferred shares (the
     Preferred Shares ) rank senior to the common stock
    with respect to dividends and liquidation rights. Dividends on
    the Preferred Shares are not cumulative. Holders of the
    Preferred Shares will be entitled to receive dividend payments
    only when, as and if declared by the Holding Company s
    Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the board.
    If dividends are declared on the Series A preferred shares,
    they will be payable quarterly, in arrears, at an annual rate of
    the greater of: (i) 1.00% above
     3-month 
    LIBOR on the related LIBOR determination date; or
    (ii) 4.00%. Any dividends declared on the Series B
    preferred shares will be payable quarterly, in arrears, at an
    annual fixed rate of 6.50%. Accordingly, in the event that
    dividends are not declared on the Preferred Shares for payment
    on any dividend payment date, then those dividends will cease to
    accrue and be payable. If a dividend is not declared before the
    dividend payment date, the

F-123

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Holding Company has no obligation to pay dividends accrued for
    that dividend period whether or not dividends are declared and
    paid in future periods. No dividends may, however, be paid or
    declared on the Holding Company s common stock  
    or any other securities ranking junior to the Preferred
    Shares   unless the full dividends for the latest
    completed dividend period on all Preferred Shares, and any
    parity stock, have been declared and paid or provided for.

The Holding Company is prohibited from declaring dividends on
    the Preferred Shares if it fails to meet specified capital
    adequacy, net income and shareholders  equity levels. In
    addition, under Federal Reserve Bank of New York Board policy,
    the Holding Company may not be able to pay dividends if it does
    not earn sufficient operating income.

The Preferred Shares do not have voting rights except in certain
    circumstances where the dividends have not been paid for an
    equivalent of six or more dividend payment periods whether or
    not those periods are consecutive. Under such circumstances, the
    holders of the Preferred Shares have certain voting rights with
    respect to members of the Board of Directors of the Holding
    Company.

The Preferred Shares are not subject to any mandatory
    redemption, sinking fund, retirement fund, purchase fund or
    similar provisions. The Preferred Shares are redeemable, but not
    prior to September 15, 2010. On and after that date,
    subject to regulatory approval, the Preferred Shares will be
    redeemable at the Holding Company s option in whole or in
    part, at a redemption price of $25 per Preferred Share, plus
    declared and unpaid dividends.

In December 2008, the Holding Company entered into an RCC
    related to the Preferred Shares. As a part of the RCC, the
    Holding Company agreed that it will not repay, redeem or
    purchase the Preferred Shares on or before December 31,
    2018, unless such repayment, redemption or purchase is made from
    the proceeds of the issuance of certain capital securities. The
    RCC is for the benefit of holders of one or more series of its
    indebtedness as designated from time to time by the Company. The
    RCC will terminate upon the occurrence of certain events,
    including the date on which there are no series of outstanding
    eligible debt securities.

In connection with the offering of the Preferred Shares, the
    Holding Company incurred $56.8 million of issuance costs
    which have been recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in
    capital.

F-124

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Information on the declaration, record and payment dates, as
    well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the
    Preferred Shares is as follows:

See Note 25 for further information.

Common
    Stock   

Repurchases  

At January 1, 2007, the Company had $216 million
    remaining under its October 2004 stock repurchase program
    authorization. In February 2007, the Company s Board of
    Directors authorized an additional $1 billion common stock
    repurchase program. In September 2007, the Company s Board
    of Directors authorized an additional $1 billion common
    stock repurchase program which began after the completion of the
    $1 billion common stock repurchase program authorized in
    February 2007. In January 2008, the Company s Board of
    Directors authorized an additional $1 billion common stock
    repurchase program, which began after the completion of the
    September 2007 program. In April 2008, the Company s Board
    of Directors authorized an additional $1 billion common
    stock repurchase program, which will begin after the completion
    of the January 2008 program. Under these authorizations, the
    Company may purchase its common stock from the MetLife
    Policyholder Trust, in the open market (including pursuant to
    the terms of a pre-set trading plan meeting the requirements of
     Rule 10b5-1 
    under the Exchange Act) and in privately negotiated transactions.

In February 2008, the Company entered into an accelerated common
    stock repurchase agreement with a major bank. Under the
    agreement, the Company paid the bank $711 million in cash
    and the bank delivered an initial amount of
    11,161,550 shares of the Company s outstanding common
    stock that the bank borrowed from third parties. In May 2008,
    the bank delivered an additional 864,646 shares of the
    Company s common stock to the Company resulting in a total
    of 12,026,196 shares being repurchased under the agreement.
    The Company recorded the shares repurchased as treasury stock.

In December 2007, the Company entered into an accelerated common
    stock repurchase agreement with a major bank. Under the terms of
    the agreement, the Company paid the bank $450 million in
    cash in January 2008 in

F-125

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

exchange for 6,646,692 shares of the Company s
    outstanding common stock that the bank borrowed from third
    parties. Also in January 2008, the bank delivered 1,043,530
    additional shares of the Company s common stock to the
    Company resulting in a total of 7,690,222 shares being
    repurchased under the agreement. At December 31, 2007, the
    Company recorded the obligation to pay $450 million to the
    bank as a reduction of additional paid-in capital. Upon
    settlement with the bank, the Company increased additional
    paid-in capital and reduced treasury stock.

In November 2007, the Company repurchased 11,559,803 shares
    of its outstanding common stock at an initial cost of
    $750 million under an accelerated common stock repurchase
    agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed the stock sold to
    the Company from third parties and purchased the common stock in
    the open market to return to such third parties. Also, in
    November 2007, the Company received a cash adjustment of
    $19 million based on the trading prices of the common stock
    during the repurchase period, for a final purchase price of
    $731 million. The Company recorded the shares initially
    repurchased as treasury stock and recorded the amount received
    as an adjustment to the cost of the treasury stock.

In March 2007, the Company repurchased 11,895,321 shares of
    its outstanding common stock at an aggregate cost of
    $750 million under an accelerated common stock repurchase
    agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed the common stock
    sold to the Company from third parties and purchased common
    stock in the open market to return to such third parties. In
    June 2007, the Company paid a cash adjustment of
    $17 million for a final purchase price of
    $767 million. The Company recorded the shares initially
    repurchased as treasury stock and recorded the amount paid as an
    adjustment to the cost of the treasury stock.

In December 2006, the Company repurchased 3,993,024 shares
    of its outstanding common stock at an aggregate cost of
    $232 million under an accelerated common stock repurchase
    agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed the common stock
    sold to the Company from third parties and purchased the common
    stock in the open market to return to such third parties. In
    February 2007, the Company paid a cash adjustment of
    $8 million for a final purchase price of $240 million.
    The Company recorded the shares initially repurchased as
    treasury stock and recorded the amount paid as an adjustment to
    the cost of the treasury stock.

During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, the
    Company repurchased 1,550,000 shares and
    3,171,700 shares, respectively, through open market
    purchases for $88 million and $200 million,
    respectively.

The Company repurchased 21,266,418 and 26,626,824 shares of
    its common stock for $1,250 million and
    $1,705 million, respectively, during the years ended
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. At
    December 31, 2008, an aggregate of $1,261 million
    remains available under the Company s January 2008 and
    April 2008 common stock repurchase programs. The Company does
    not intend to make any purchases under the common stock
    repurchase program in 2009.

In connection with the split-off of RGA as described in
    Note 2, the Company received from MetLife stockholders
    23,093,689 shares of the Company s common stock with a
    market value of $1,318 million and, in exchange, delivered
    29,243,539 shares of RGA Class B common stock with a
    net book value of $1,716 million resulting in a loss on
    disposition, including transaction costs, of $458 million.

Future common stock repurchases will be dependent upon several
    factors, including the Company s capital position, its
    financial strength and credit ratings, general market conditions
    and the price of the Company s common stock.

Issuances  

As described in Note 13, in August 2008, the Company
    delivered 20,244,549 shares of its common stock from
    treasury stock for $1,035 million in connection with the
    initial settlement of the stock purchase contracts issued as
    part of the common equity units sold in June 2005. Also, as
    described in Notes 13 and 25, the Company subsequently
    delivered 24,343,154 shares of its newly issued common
    stock on February 17, 2009 at a value of
    $1,035 million to settle the remaining stock purchase
    contracts issued as part of the common equity units sold in

F-126

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

June 2005. In the aggregate, the Company issued
    44,587,703 shares of common stock to settle the stock
    purchase contracts.

In October 2008, the Company issued 86,250,000 shares of
    its common stock at a price of $26.50 per share for gross
    proceeds of $2,286 million. Of the shares issued,
    75,000,000 shares, with a value of $4,040 million were
    issued from treasury stock for consideration of
    $1,988 million. In connection with the offering of common
    stock, the Company incurred $60.1 million of issuance costs
    which have been recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in
    capital.

During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    97,515,737 and 3,864,894 shares of common stock were issued
    from treasury stock for $5,221 million and
    $172 million, respectively.

Dividends  

The table below presents declaration, record and payment dates,
    as well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the
    common stock:

Stock-Based
    Compensation Plans   

Overview  

As described more fully in Note 1, effective
    January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 123(r),
    using the modified prospective transition method. The adoption
    of SFAS 123(r) did not have a significant impact on the
    Company s financial position or results of operations.

Description
    of Plans  

The MetLife, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the
     Stock Incentive Plan ), authorized the granting of
    awards in the form of options to buy shares of the
    Company s common stock ( Stock Options ) that
    either qualify as incentive Stock Options under
    Section 422A of the Internal Revenue Code or are
    non-qualified. The MetLife, Inc. 2000 Directors Stock Plan,
    as amended (the  Directors Stock Plan ), authorized
    the granting of awards in the form of the Company s common
    stock, non-qualified Stock Options, or a combination of the
    foregoing to outside Directors of the Company. Under the
    MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan, as
    amended (the  2005 Stock Plan ), awards granted may be
    in the form of Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights,
    Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares
    or Performance Share Units, Cash-Based Awards, and Stock-Based
    Awards (each as defined in the 2005 Stock Plan). Under the
    MetLife, Inc. 2005 Non-Management Director Stock Compensation
    Plan (the  2005 Directors Stock Plan ), awards
    granted may be in the form of non-qualified Stock Options, Stock
    Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units,
    or Stock-Based Awards (each as defined in the
    2005 Directors Stock Plan). The Stock Incentive Plan,
    Directors Stock Plan, 2005 Stock Plan, the 2005 Directors
    Stock Plan and the LTPCP, as described below, are hereinafter
    collectively referred to as the  Incentive Plans. 

The aggregate number of shares reserved for issuance under the
    2005 Stock Plan and the LTPCP is 68,000,000, plus those shares
    available but not utilized under the Stock Incentive Plan and
    those shares utilized under the Stock Incentive Plan that are
    recovered due to forfeiture of Stock Options. Additional shares
    carried forward from the Stock Incentive Plan and available for
    issuance under the 2005 Stock Plan were 12,584,119 at
    December 31, 2008.

F-127

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

There were no shares carried forward from the Directors Stock
    Plan. Each share issued under the 2005 Stock Plan in connection
    with a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right reduces the
    number of shares remaining for issuance under that plan by one,
    and each share issued under the 2005 Stock Plan in connection
    with awards other than Stock Options or Stock Appreciation
    Rights reduces the number of shares remaining for issuance under
    that plan by 1.179 shares. The number of shares reserved
    for issuance under the 2005 Directors Stock Plan are
    2,000,000. At December 31, 2008, the aggregate number of
    shares remaining available for issuance pursuant to the 2005
    Stock Plan and the 2005 Directors Stock Plan were
    55,654,550 and 1,894,876, respectively.

Stock Option exercises and other stock-based awards to employees
    settled in shares are satisfied through the issuance of shares
    held in treasury by the Company. Under the current authorized
    share repurchase program, as described previously, sufficient
    treasury shares exist to satisfy foreseeable obligations under
    the Incentive Plans.

Compensation expense related to awards under the Incentive Plans
    is recognized based on the number of awards expected to vest,
    which represents the awards granted less expected forfeitures
    over the life of the award, as estimated at the date of grant.
    Unless a material deviation from the assumed rate is observed
    during the term in which the awards are expensed, any adjustment
    necessary to reflect differences in actual experience is
    recognized in the period the award becomes payable or
    exercisable. Compensation expense of $121 million,
    $145 million and $144 million, and income tax benefits
    of $42 million, $51 million and $50 million,
    related to the Incentive Plans was recognized for the years
    ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
    Compensation expense is principally related to the issuance of
    Stock Options, Performance Shares and LTPCP arrangements.

As described in Note 1, the Company changed its policy
    prospectively for recognizing expense for stock-based awards to
    retirement eligible employees. Had the Company continued to
    recognize expense over the stated requisite service period,
    compensation expense related to the Incentive Plans would have
    been $100 million, $118 million and $116 million,
    rather than $121 million, $145 million and
    $144 million, for the years ended December 31, 2008,
    2007 and 2006, respectively. Had the Company applied the policy
    of recognizing expense related to stock-based compensation over
    the shorter of the requisite service period or the period to
    attainment of retirement eligibility for awards granted prior to
    January 1, 2006, pro forma compensation expense would have
    been $100 million, $118 million and $120 million
    for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.

Stock
    Options  

All Stock Options granted had an exercise price equal to the
    closing price of the Company s common stock as reported on
    the New York Stock Exchange on the date of grant, and have a
    maximum term of ten years. Certain Stock Options granted under
    the Stock Incentive Plan and the 2005 Stock Plan have or will
    become exercisable over a three year period commencing with the
    date of grant, while other Stock Options have or will become
    exercisable three years after the date of grant. Stock Options
    issued under the Directors Stock Plan were exercisable
    immediately. The date at which any Stock Option issued under the
    2005 Directors Stock Plan becomes exercisable would be
    determined at the time such Stock Option is granted.

A summary of the activity related to Stock Options for the year
    ended December 31, 2008 is presented below. The aggregate
    intrinsic value was computed using the closing share price on
    December 31, 2008 of $34.86 and December 31, 2007 of
    $61.62, as applicable.

F-128

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The fair value of Stock Options is estimated on the date of
    grant using a binomial lattice model. Significant assumptions
    used in the Company s binomial lattice model, which are
    further described below, include: expected volatility of the
    price of the Holding Company s common stock; risk-free rate
    of return; expected dividend yield on the Holding Company s
    common stock; exercise multiple; and the post-vesting
    termination rate.

Expected volatility is based upon an analysis of historical
    prices of the Holding Company s common stock and call
    options on that common stock traded on the open market. The
    Company uses a weighted-average of the implied volatility for
    publicly-traded call options with the longest remaining maturity
    nearest to the money as of each valuation date and the
    historical volatility, calculated using monthly closing prices
    of the Holding Company s common stock. The Company chose a
    monthly measurement interval for historical volatility as it
    believes this better depicts the nature of employee option
    exercise decisions being based on longer-term trends in the
    price of the underlying shares rather than on daily price
    movements.

The binomial lattice model used by the Company incorporates
    different risk-free rates based on the imputed forward rates for
    U.S. Treasury Strips for each year over the contractual
    term of the option. The table below presents the full range of
    rates that were used for options granted during the respective
    periods.

Dividend yield is determined based on historical dividend
    distributions compared to the price of the underlying common
    stock as of the valuation date and held constant over the life
    of the Stock Option.

The binomial model used by the Company incorporates the
    contractual term of the Stock Options and then factors in
    expected exercise behavior and a post-vesting termination rate,
    or the rate at which vested options are exercised or expire
    prematurely due to termination of employment, to derive an
    expected life. Exercise behavior in the binomial lattice model
    used by the Company is expressed using an exercise multiple,
    which reflects the ratio of exercise price to the strike price
    of Stock Options granted at which holders of the Stock Options
    are expected to exercise. The exercise multiple is derived from
    actual historical exercise activity. The post-vesting
    termination rate is determined from actual historical exercise
    experience and expiration activity under the Incentive Plans.

F-129

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following weighted average assumptions, with the exception
    of risk-free rate, which is expressed as a range, were used to
    determine the fair value of Stock Options issued during the:

Compensation expense related to Stock Option awards expected to
    vest and granted prior to January 1, 2006 is recognized
    ratably over the requisite service period, which equals the
    vesting term. Compensation expense related to Stock Option
    awards expected to vest and granted on or after January 1,
    2006 is recognized ratably over the requisite service period or
    the period to retirement eligibility, if shorter. Compensation
    expense of $51 million, $55 million and
    $56 million related to Stock Options was recognized for the
    years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

At December 31, 2008, there were $43 million of total
    unrecognized compensation costs related to Stock Options. It is
    expected that these costs will be recognized over a weighted
    average period of 1.81 years.

The following is a summary of Stock Option exercise activity for
    the:

Performance
    Shares  

Beginning in 2005, certain members of management were awarded
    Performance Shares under (and as defined in) the 2005 Stock
    Plan. Participants are awarded an initial target number of
    Performance Shares with the final number of Performance Shares
    payable being determined by the product of the initial target
    multiplied by a factor of 0.0 to 2.0. The factor applied is
    based on measurements of the Company s performance with
    respect to: (i) the change in annual net operating earnings
    per share, as defined; and (ii) the proportionate total
    shareholder return, as defined, with reference to the three-year
    performance period relative to other companies in the S P
    Insurance Index with reference to the same three-year period.
    Performance Share awards will normally vest in their entirety at
    the end of the three-year performance period (subject to certain
    contingencies) and will be payable entirely in shares of the
    Company s common stock.

F-130

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following is a summary of Performance Share activity for the
    year ended December 31, 2008:

Performance Share amounts above represent aggregate initial
    target awards and do not reflect potential increases or
    decreases resulting from the final performance factor to be
    determined at the end of the respective performance period. At
    December 31, 2008, the three year performance period for
    the 2006 Performance Share grants was completed. Included in the
    immediately preceding table are 812,975 outstanding Performance
    Shares to which the final performance factor will be applied.
    The calculation of the performance factor is expected to be
    finalized during the second quarter of 2009 after all data
    necessary to perform the calculation is publicly available.

Performance Share awards are accounted for as equity awards but
    are not credited with dividend-equivalents for actual dividends
    paid on the Holding Company s common stock during the
    performance period. Accordingly, the estimated fair value of
    Performance Shares is based upon the closing price of the
    Holding Company s common stock on the date of grant,
    reduced by the present value of estimated dividends to be paid
    on that stock during the performance period.

Compensation expense related to initial Performance Shares
    granted prior to January 1, 2006 and expected to vest is
    recognized ratably during the performance period. Compensation
    expense related to initial Performance Shares granted on or
    after January 1, 2006 and expected to vest is recognized
    ratably over the performance period or the period to retirement
    eligibility, if shorter. Performance Shares expected to vest and
    the related compensation expenses may be further adjusted by the
    performance factor most likely to be achieved, as estimated by
    management, at the end of the performance period. Compensation
    expense of $70 million, $90 million and
    $74 million, related to Performance Shares was recognized
    for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.

At December 31, 2008, there were $57 million of total
    unrecognized compensation costs related to Performance Share
    awards. It is expected that these costs will be recognized over
    a weighted average period of 1.65 years.

Long-Term
    Performance Compensation Plan  

Prior to January 1, 2005, the Company granted stock-based
    compensation to certain members of management under the LTPCP.
    Each participant was assigned a target compensation amount (an
     Opportunity Award ) at the inception of the
    performance period with the final compensation amount determined
    based on the total shareholder return on the Company s
    common stock over the three-year performance period, subject to
    limited further adjustment approved by the Company s Board
    of Directors. Payments on the Opportunity Awards were normally
    payable in their entirety (subject to certain contingencies) at
    the end of the three-year performance period, and were paid in
    whole or in part with shares of the Company s common stock,
    as approved by the Company s Board of Directors. There were
    no new grants under the LTPCP during the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.

A portion of each Opportunity Award under the LTPCP was settled
    in shares of the Holding Company s common stock while the
    remainder was settled in cash. The portion of the Opportunity
    Award settled in shares of the

F-131

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Holding Company s common stock was accounted for as an
    equity award with the fair value of the award determined based
    upon the closing price of the Holding Company s common
    stock on the date of grant. The compensation expense associated
    with the equity award, based upon the grant date fair value, was
    recognized into expense ratably over the respective three-year
    performance period. The portion of the Opportunity Award settled
    in cash was accounted for as a liability and was remeasured
    using the closing price of the Holding Company s common
    stock on the final day of each subsequent reporting period
    during the three-year performance period.

The final LTPCP performance period concluded during the six
    months ended June 30, 2007. Final Opportunity Awards in the
    amount of 618,375 shares of the Company s common stock
    and $16 million in cash were paid on April 18, 2007.
    No significant compensation expense related to LTPCP was
    recognized during the year ended December 31, 2008 and
    2007. Compensation expense of $14 million related to LTPCP
    Opportunity Awards was recognized for the year ended
    December 31, 2006.

Statutory
    Equity and Income   

Each insurance company s state of domicile imposes minimum
    risk-based capital ( RBC ) requirements that were
    developed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners
    ( NAIC ). The formulas for determining the amount of
    RBC specify various weighting factors that are applied to
    financial balances or various levels of activity based on the
    perceived degree of risk. Regulatory compliance is determined by
    a ratio of total adjusted capital, as defined by the NAIC, to
    authorized control level RBC, as defined by the NAIC.
    Companies below specific trigger points or ratios are classified
    within certain levels, each of which requires specified
    corrective action. Each of the Holding Company s
    U.S. insurance subsidiaries exceeded the minimum RBC
    requirements for all periods presented herein.

The NAIC has adopted the Codification of Statutory Accounting
    Principles ( Codification ). Codification is intended
    to standardize regulatory accounting and reporting to state
    insurance departments. However, statutory accounting principles
    continue to be established by individual state laws and
    permitted practices. The New York Insurance Department has
    adopted Codification with certain modifications for the
    preparation of statutory financial statements of insurance
    companies domiciled in New York. Modifications by the various
    state insurance departments may impact the effect of
    Codification on the statutory capital and surplus of the Holding
    Company s insurance subsidiaries.

Statutory accounting principles differ from GAAP primarily by
    charging policy acquisition costs to expense as incurred,
    establishing future policy benefit liabilities using different
    actuarial assumptions, reporting surplus notes as surplus
    instead of debt and valuing securities on a different basis.

In addition, certain assets are not admitted under statutory
    accounting principles and are charged directly to surplus. The
    most significant assets not admitted by the Company are net
    deferred income tax assets resulting from temporary differences
    between statutory accounting principles basis and tax basis not
    expected to reverse and become recoverable within a year.
    Further, statutory accounting principles do not give recognition
    to purchase accounting adjustments.

Statutory net income (loss) of Metropolitan Life Insurance
    Company, a New York domiciled insurer, was ($338) million,
    $2.1 billion and $1.0 billion for the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Statutory
    capital and surplus, as filed with the Department, was
    $11.6 billion and $13.0 billion at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively.

Statutory net income of MetLife Insurance Company of
    Connecticut, a Connecticut domiciled insurer, was
    $242 million, $1.1 billion, and $856 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. Statutory capital and surplus, as filed with the
    Connecticut Insurance Department, was $5.5 billion and
    $4.2 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

F-132

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Statutory net income of Metropolitan Property and Casualty
    Insurance Company ( MPC ), a Rhode Island domiciled
    insurer, was $308 million, $400 million and
    $385 million for the years ended December 31, 2008,
    2007 and 2006, respectively. Statutory capital and surplus, as
    filed with the Insurance Department of Rhode Island, was
    $1.8 billion at both December 31, 2008 and 2007.

Statutory net income of Metropolitan Tower and Life Insurance
    Company ( MTL ), a Delaware domiciled insurer, was
    $212 million, $103 million and $2.8 billion for
    the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. Statutory capital and surplus, as filed with the
    Delaware Insurance Department was $885 million and
    $1.1 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

Dividend
    Restrictions   

The table below sets forth the dividends permitted to be paid by
    the respective insurance subsidiary without insurance regulatory
    approval and the respective dividends paid:

(1)  

Reflects dividend amounts that may be paid during 2009 without
    prior regulatory approval. However, if paid before a specified
    date during 2009, some or all of such dividends may require
    regulatory approval. 

(2)  

All amounts paid, including those requiring regulatory approval. 

(3)  

Reflects dividend amounts that could have been paid during the
    relevant year without prior regulatory approval. 

(4)  

As described in Note 2, consists of shares of RGA stock
    distributed by MLIC to the Holding Company as an in-kind
    dividend of $1,318 million. 

(5)  

Includes shares of an affiliate distributed to the Holding
    Company as an in-kind dividend in the amount of
    $164 million. 

(6)  

Includes a return of capital of $404 million as approved by
    the applicable insurance department, of which $350 million
    was paid to the Holding Company. 

Under New York State Insurance Law, MLIC is permitted, without
    prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay stockholder
    dividends to the Holding Company as long as the aggregate amount
    of all such dividends in any calendar year does not exceed the
    lesser of: (i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as of
    the end of the immediately preceding calendar year; or
    (ii) its statutory net gain from operations for the
    immediately preceding calendar year (excluding realized capital
    gains). MLIC will be permitted to pay a cash dividend to the
    Holding Company in excess of the lesser of such two amounts only
    if it files notice of its intention to declare such a dividend
    and the amount thereof with the Superintendent and the
    Superintendent does not disapprove the distribution within
    30 days of its filing. Under New York State Insurance Law,
    the Superintendent has broad discretion in determining whether
    the financial condition of a stock life insurance company would
    support the payment of such dividends to its shareholders. The
    New York State Department of Insurance (the
     Department ) has established informal guidelines for
    such determinations. The guidelines, among other things, focus
    on the insurer s overall financial condition and
    profitability under statutory accounting practices.

F-133

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Under Connecticut State Insurance Law, MICC is permitted,
    without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay shareholder
    dividends to its parent as long as the amount of such dividends,
    when aggregated with all other dividends in the preceding
    12 months, does not exceed the greater of: (i) 10% of
    its surplus to policyholders as of the end of the immediately
    preceding calendar year; or (ii) its statutory net gain
    from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year.
    MICC will be permitted to pay a cash dividend in excess of the
    greater of such two amounts only if it files notice of its
    declaration of such a dividend and the amount thereof with the
    Connecticut Commissioner of Insurance (the  Connecticut
    Commissioner ) and the Connecticut Commissioner does not
    disapprove the payment within 30 days after notice. In
    addition, any dividend that exceeds earned surplus (unassigned
    funds, reduced by 25% of unrealized appreciation in value or
    revaluation of assets or unrealized profits on investments) as
    of the last filed annual statutory statement requires insurance
    regulatory approval. Under Connecticut State Insurance Law, the
    Connecticut Commissioner has broad discretion in determining
    whether the financial condition of a stock life insurance
    company would support the payment of such dividends to its
    shareholders. The Connecticut State Insurance Law requires prior
    approval for any dividends for a period of two years following a
    change in control. As a result of the acquisition of MICC by the
    Holding Company on July 1, 2005, under Connecticut State
    Insurance Law, all dividend payments by MICC through
    June 30, 2007 required prior approval of the Connecticut
    Commissioner.

Under Delaware State Insurance Law, Metropolitan Tower Life
    Insurance Company is permitted, without prior insurance
    regulatory clearance, to pay a stockholder dividend to the
    Holding Company as long as the amount of the dividend when
    aggregated with all other dividends in the preceding
    12 months does not exceed the greater of: (i) 10% of
    its surplus to policyholders as of the end of the immediately
    preceding calendar year; or (ii) its statutory net gain
    from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year
    (excluding realized capital gains). MTL will be permitted to pay
    a cash dividend to the Holding Company in excess of the greater
    of such two amounts only if it files notice of the declaration
    of such a dividend and the amount thereof with the Delaware
    Commissioner of Insurance (the  Delaware
    Commissioner ) and the Delaware Commissioner does not
    disapprove the distribution within 30 days of its filing.
    In addition, any dividend that exceeds earned surplus (defined
    as unassigned funds) as of the last filed annual statutory
    statement requires insurance regulatory approval. Under Delaware
    State Insurance Law, the Delaware Commissioner has broad
    discretion in determining whether the financial condition of a
    stock life insurance company would support the payment of such
    dividends to its shareholders.

Under Rhode Island State Insurance Law, MPC is permitted,
    without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay a
    stockholder dividend to the Holding Company as long as the
    aggregate amount of all such dividends in any twelve-month
    period does not exceed the lesser of: (i) 10% of its
    surplus to policyholders as of the end of the immediately
    preceding calendar year; or (ii) net income, not including
    realized capital gains, for the immediately preceding calendar
    year, which may include carry forward net income from the second
    and third preceding calendar years excluding realized capital
    gains and less dividends paid in the second and immediately
    preceding calendar years. MPC will be permitted to pay a cash
    dividend to the Holding Company in excess of the lesser of such
    two amounts only if it files notice of its intention to declare
    such a dividend and the amount thereof with the Rhode Island
    Commissioner of Insurance (the  Rhode Island
    Commissioner ) and the Rhode Island Commissioner does not
    disapprove the distribution within 30 days of its filing.
    Under Rhode Island State Insurance Code, the Rhode Island
    Commissioner has broad discretion in determining whether the
    financial condition of a stock property and casualty insurance
    company would support the payment of such dividends to its
    shareholders. MPC may not pay any dividends in 2009 without
    prior regulatory approval for dividend payments with payment
    dates prior to December 12, 2009. Subsequent to
    December 12, 2009, MPC can pay dividends totaling
    $9 million without requiring regulatory approval from the
    Rhode Island Commissioner.

F-134

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Other
    Comprehensive Income (Loss)   

The following table sets forth the reclassification adjustments
    required for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and
    2006 in other comprehensive income (loss) that are included as
    part of net income for the current year that have been reported
    as a part of other comprehensive income (loss) in the current or
    prior year:

Information on other expenses is as follows:

F-135

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Amortization
    and Capitalization of DAC and VOBA  

See Note 5 for deferred acquisition costs by segment and a
    rollforward of deferred acquisition costs including impacts of
    amortization and capitalization. See also Note 9 for a
    description of the DAC amortization impact associated with the
    closed block.

Interest
    and Debt Issue Costs  

See Notes 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 for attribution of interest
    expense by debt issuance.

Lease
    Impairments  

See Note 16 for description of lease impairments included
    within other expenses.

Restructuring
    Charges  

The Company has initiated an enterprise-wide cost reduction and
    revenue enhancement initiative. This initiative is focused on
    reducing complexity, leveraging scale, increasing productivity,
    and improving the effectiveness of the Company s
    operations, as well as providing a foundation for future growth.
    During the third quarter of 2008, the Company recognized a
    severance-related restructuring charge of $73 million
    associated with the termination of certain employees in
    connection with this enterprise-wide initiative. During the
    fourth quarter of 2008, the Company recorded further severance
    related restructuring costs of $36 million offset by an
    $8 million reduction to its third quarter restructuring
    charge attributable to lower than anticipated costs for variable
    incentive compensation and for employees whose severance status
    changed. Severance costs of $15 million were paid during
    the fourth quarter of 2008. Total restructuring charges incurred
    in connection with this enterprise-wide initiative during the
    year ended December 31, 2008 were $101 million and
    were reflected within Corporate   Other. Estimated
    restructuring costs may change as management continues to
    execute its restructuring plans. Restructuring charges
    associated with this enterprise-wide initiative were as follows:

Year Ended 

December 31, 2008 

(In millions) 

Balance as of beginning of the period

$

Severance charges

109

Change in severance charge estimates

(8

)

Cash payments

(15

)

Balance as of end of the period

$

86

Total restructuring charges incurred

$

101

Management anticipates further restructuring charges including
    severance, lease and asset impairments will be incurred during
    the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010. However, such
    restructuring plans are not sufficiently developed to enable the
    Company to make an estimate of such restructuring charges at
    December 31, 2008.

In addition to the restructuring charges incurred in connection
    with the aforementioned enterprise-wide initiative, the Company
    also incurred severance costs in connection with the Argentine
    government s nationalization of the its private pension
    business. The Company recognized a restructuring charge of
    $15 million within the International segment during the
    fourth quarter of 2008 and made payments of $12 million
    resulting in a restructuring liability of $3 million at
    December 31, 2008.

F-136

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

20.    

Earnings
    Per Common Share  

The following table presents the weighted average shares used in
    calculating basic earnings per common share and those used in
    calculating diluted earnings per common share for each income
    category presented below:

(1)  

See Note 13 for a description of the Company s common
    equity units. 

F-137

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

21.    

Quarterly
    Results of Operations (Unaudited)  

The unaudited quarterly results of operations for 2008 and 2007
    are summarized in the table below:

(1)  

During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company recorded a
    cumulative out-of-period adjustment in connection with the
    exclusion of certain derivative gains from the estimation of
    cumulative gross profits used in the determination of DAC
    amortization. The adjustment decreased deferred policy
    acquisition costs and increased DAC amortization by
    $124 million and decreased net income by $80 million
    in the fourth quarter of 2008. Had the amounts been reflected
    during the first, second and third quarters of 2008  
    in the periods in which they arose   DAC amortization
    would have increased (decreased) by $100 million,
    ($61) million, and $85 million, respectively,
    resulting in an increase (decrease) of net income by
    ($65) million, $40 million and ($55) million,
    respectively. Net income available to common shareholders per
    diluted common share would have been higher (lower) by ($0.09),
    $0.06, ($0.08) and $0.10 during the first, second, third and
    fourth quarters, respectively, of 2008 had the amounts been
    reflected in the periods in which they arose. Based upon an
    evaluation of all relevant quantitative and qualitative factors,
    and after considering the provisions of APB Opinion No. 28,
     Interim Financial Reporting , paragraph 29,
    SAB No. 99,  Materiality , and SAB 108,
    management believes this correcting adjustment was not material
    to the Company s full year results for 2008 or the trend of
    earnings. 

F-138

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

22.    

Business
    Segment Information  

The Company is a leading provider of individual insurance,
    employee benefits and financial services with operations
    throughout the United States and the regions of Latin America,
    Asia Pacific, and Europe. Subsequent to the disposition of RGA
    and the elimination of the Reinsurance segment as described in
    Notes 2 and 23, the Company s business is divided into
    four operating segments: Institutional, Individual,
    International, and Auto   Home, as well as
    Corporate   Other. These segments are managed
    separately because they either provide different products and
    services, require different strategies or have different
    technology requirements.

Institutional offers a broad range of group insurance and
    retirement   savings products and services, including
    group life insurance, non-medical health insurance, such as
    short and long-term disability, long-term care, and dental
    insurance, and other insurance products and services. Individual
    offers a wide variety of protection and asset accumulation
    products, including life insurance, annuities and mutual funds.
    International provides life insurance, accident and health
    insurance, annuities and retirement   savings products
    to both individuals and groups. Auto   Home provides
    personal lines property and casualty insurance, including
    private passenger automobile, homeowners and personal excess
    liability insurance.

Corporate   Other contains the excess capital not
    allocated to the business segments, various
     start-up 
    entities, MetLife Bank and run-off entities, as well as interest
    expense related to the majority of the Company s
    outstanding debt and expenses associated with certain legal
    proceedings and income tax audit issues. Corporate  
    Other also includes the elimination of all intersegment amounts,
    which generally relate to intersegment loans, which bear
    interest rates commensurate with related borrowings, as well as
    intersegment transactions. The operations of RGA are also
    reported in Corporate   Other as discontinued
    operations. Additionally, the Company s asset management
    business, including amounts reported as discontinued operations,
    is included in the results of operations for
    Corporate   Other. See Note 23 for disclosures
    regarding discontinued operations, including real estate.

Economic capital is an internally developed risk capital model,
    the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the business and
    to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. The economic
    capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the
    risks inherent in MetLife s businesses. As a part of the
    economic capital process, a portion of net investment income is
    credited to the segments based on the level of allocated equity.

F-139

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Set forth in the tables below is certain financial information
    with respect to the Company s segments, as well as
    Corporate   Other, for the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. The accounting policies
    of the segments are the same as those of the Company, except for
    the method of capital allocation and the accounting for gains
    (losses) from intercompany sales, which are eliminated in
    consolidation. The Company allocates equity to each segment
    based upon the economic capital model that allows the Company to
    effectively manage its capital. The Company evaluates the
    performance of each segment based upon net income excluding net
    investment gains (losses), net of income tax, adjustments
    related to net investment gains (losses), net of income tax, the
    impact from the cumulative effect of changes in accounting, net
    of income tax and discontinued operations, other than
    discontinued real estate, net of income tax, less preferred
    stock dividends. The Company allocates certain non-recurring
    items, such as expenses associated with certain legal
    proceedings, to Corporate   Other.

F-140

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

F-141

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Net investment income and net investment gains (losses) are
    based upon the actual results of each segment s
    specifically identifiable asset portfolio adjusted for allocated
    equity. Other costs are allocated to each of the segments based
    upon: (i) a review of the nature of such costs;
    (ii) time studies analyzing the amount of employee
    compensation costs incurred by each segment; and (iii) cost
    estimates included in the Company s product pricing.

Revenues derived from any customer did not exceed 10% of
    consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31,
    2008, 2007 and 2006. Revenues from U.S. operations were
    $44.6 billion, $41.7 billion and $38.4 billion
    for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively, which represented 87%, 88% and 90%, respectively,
    of consolidated revenues.

23.    

Discontinued
    Operations  

Real
    Estate   

The Company actively manages its real estate portfolio with the
    objective of maximizing earnings through selective acquisitions
    and dispositions. Income related to real estate classified as
    held-for-sale or sold is presented in discontinued operations.
    These assets are carried at the lower of depreciated cost or
    estimated fair value less expected disposition costs.

F-142

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following information presents the components of income from
    discontinued real estate operations:

The carrying value of real estate related to discontinued
    operations was $1 million and $39 million at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

The following table presents the discontinued real estate
    operations by segment:

In the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company sold its Peter Cooper
    Village and Stuyvesant Town properties located in Manhattan, New
    York for $5.4 billion. The Peter Cooper Village and
    Stuyvesant Town properties together make up the largest
    apartment complex in Manhattan, New York totaling over
    11,000 units, spread over 80 contiguous acres. The
    properties were owned by the Company s subsidiary, MTL. Net
    investment income on these properties was $73 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2006. The sale resulted in a
    gain of $3 billion, net of income tax.

Operations   

As more fully described in Note 2, on September 12,
    2008, the Company completed a tax-free split-off of its
    majority-owned subsidiary, RGA. As a result of the disposition,
    the Reinsurance segment was eliminated. (See also Note 22).
    RGA s assets and liabilities were reclassified to assets
    and liabilities of subsidiaries held-for-sale and its operating
    results were reclassified to discontinued operations for all
    periods presented. Interest on economic capital associated with
    the Reinsurance segment has been reclassified to the continuing
    operations of Corporate   Other.

F-143

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following tables present the amounts related to the
    operations and financial position of RGA that have been
    reflected as discontinued operations in the consolidated
    statements of income:

F-144

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The operations of RGA include direct policies and reinsurance
    agreements with MetLife and some of its subsidiaries. These
    agreements are generally terminable by either party upon
    90 days written notice with respect to future new business.
    Agreements related to existing business generally are not
    terminable, unless the underlying policies terminate or are
    recaptured. These direct policies and reinsurance agreements do
    not constitute significant continuing involvement by the Company
    with RGA. Included in continuing operations in the
    Company s consolidated statements of operations are amounts
    related to these transactions, including ceded amounts that
    reduced premiums and fees by $158 million,
    $251 million and $228 million and ceded amounts that
    reduced policyholder benefits and claims by $136 million,
    $290 million and $207 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively that have
    not been eliminated as these transactions are expected to
    continue after the RGA disposition. Related amounts included in
    the Company s consolidated balance sheets include assets
    totaling $805 million, and liabilities totaling
    $542 million at December 31, 2007.

During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Holding Company entered
    into an agreement to sell its wholly-owned subsidiary, Cova, the
    parent company of Texas Life Insurance Company, to a third party
    in the fourth quarter of

F-145

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

2008. The transaction is expected to close in early 2009. (See
    also Note 2). Accordingly, the Company has reclassified the
    assets and liabilities of Cova as held-for-sale and its
    operations into discontinued operations for all periods
    presented in the consolidated financial statements. The
    following tables present the amounts related to the operations
    and financial position of Cova that have been reflected as
    discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of income:

F-146

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

On August 31, 2007, MetLife Insurance Limited
    ( MetLife Australia ) completed the sale of its
    annuities and pension businesses to a third party for
    $25 million in cash consideration resulting in a gain upon
    disposal of $41 million, net of income tax, which was
    adjusted in the fourth quarter of 2007 for additional
    transaction costs. The Company reclassified the assets and
    liabilities of the annuities and pension businesses within
    MetLife Australia, which is reported in the International
    segment, to assets and liabilities of subsidiaries held-for-sale
    and the operations of the business to discontinued operations
    for all periods presented. Included within the assets to be sold
    were certain fixed maturity securities in a loss position for
    which the Company recognized a net investment loss on a
    consolidated basis of $59 million, net of income tax, for
    the year ended December 31, 2007, because the Company no
    longer had the intent to hold such securities.

F-147

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents the amounts related to the
    operations of MetLife Australia s annuities and pension
    businesses:

On January 31, 2005, the Company completed the sale of SSRM
    Holdings, Inc. to a third party for $328 million in cash
    and stock. The Company reported the operations of SSRM in
    discontinued operations. Under the terms of the sale agreement,
    MetLife had an opportunity to receive additional payments based
    on, among other things, certain revenue retention and growth
    measures. The purchase price was also subject to reduction over
    five years, depending on retention of certain MetLife-related
    business. In the second quarter of 2008, the Company paid
    $3 million, net of income tax, of which $2 million was
    accrued in the fourth quarter of 2007, related to the
    termination of certain MetLife-related business. Also under the
    terms of such agreement, MetLife had the opportunity to receive
    additional consideration for the retention of certain customers
    for a specific period in 2005. Upon finalization of the
    computation, the Company received a payment of $30 million,
    net of income tax, in the second quarter of 2006 due to the
    retention of these specific customer accounts. In the first
    quarter of 2007, the Company received a payment of
    $16 million, net of income tax, as a result of the revenue
    retention and growth measure provision in the sales agreement.
    In the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company eliminated
    $4 million of a liability that was previously recorded with
    respect to the indemnities provided in connection with the sale
    of SSRM, resulting in a benefit to the Company of
    $2 million, net of income tax. The Company believes that
    future payments relating to these indemnities are not probable.

The following table presents the amounts related to operations
    of SSRM that have been reflected as discontinued operations in
    the consolidated statements of income:

Fair
    Value of Financial Instruments  

As described in Note 1, the Company prospectively adopted
    the provisions of SFAS 157 effective January 1, 2008.
    As a result, the methodologies used to determine the estimated
    fair value for certain financial instruments at
    December 31, 2008 may have been modified from those
    utilized at December 31, 2007, which, while being deemed
    appropriate under existing accounting guidance, may not have
    produced an exit value as defined in SFAS 157.

F-148

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Accordingly, the estimated fair value of financial instruments,
    and the description of the methodologies used to derive those
    estimated fair values, are presented separately at
    December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008. Considerable
    judgment is often required in interpreting market data to
    develop estimates of fair value and the use of different
    assumptions or valuation methodologies may have a material
    effect on the estimated fair value amounts.

Amounts related to the Company s financial instruments are
    as follows:

(1)  

Commitments are off-balance sheet obligations. Negative
    estimated fair values represent off-balance sheet liabilities. 

The methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of
    financial instruments are summarized as follows:

Fixed Maturity Securities, Equity Securities and Trading
    Securities    The estimated fair values of publicly
    held fixed maturity securities and publicly held equity
    securities are based on quoted market prices or estimates from
    independent pricing services. However, in cases where quoted
    market prices are not available, such as for private fixed
    maturity securities, fair values are estimated using present
    value or valuation techniques. The determination of estimated
    fair values is based on: (i) market standard valuation
    methodologies; (ii) securities the Company deems to be
    comparable; and (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given
    the circumstances. The value estimates based on available market
    information and judgments about financial instruments, including
    estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash
    flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty.
    Factors considered in estimating fair value include; coupon
    rate, maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking
    fund requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer,
    and quoted market prices of comparable securities.

F-149

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Mortgage and Consumer Loans, Mortgage Loan Commitments and
    Commitments to Fund Bank Credit Facilities, Bridge Loans,
    and Private Corporate Bond Investments    Fair
    values for mortgage and consumer loans are estimated by
    discounting expected future cash flows, using current interest
    rates for similar loans with similar credit risk. For mortgage
    loan commitments and commitments to fund bank credit facilities,
    bridge loans, and private corporate bond investments the
    estimated fair value is the net premium or discount of the
    commitments.

Policy Loans    The estimated fair values for
    policy loans approximate carrying values.

Cash and Cash Equivalents and Short-term
    Investments    The estimated fair values for cash
    and cash equivalents and short-term investments approximate
    carrying values due to the short-term maturities of these
    instruments.

Accrued Investment Income    The estimated fair
    value for accrued investment income approximates carrying value.

Policyholder Account Balances    The fair value
    of policyholder account balances which have final contractual
    maturities are estimated by discounting expected future cash
    flows based upon interest rates currently being offered for
    similar contracts with maturities consistent with those
    remaining for the agreements being valued. The estimated fair
    value of policyholder account balances without final contractual
    maturities are assumed to equal their current net surrender
    value.

Short-term and Long-term Debt, Collateral Financing
    Arrangements, Junior Subordinated Debt
    Securities    The estimated fair values of
    short-term and long-term debt, collateral financing arrangements
    and junior subordinated debt securities are determined by
    discounting expected future cash flows using risk rates
    currently available for debt with similar terms and remaining
    maturities.

Payables for Collateral Under Securities Loaned and Other
    Transactions    The estimated fair value for
    payables for collateral under securities loaned and other
    transactions approximates carrying value.

Assets and Liabilities of Subsidiaries
    Held-For-Sale    The carrying values of assets and
    liabilities of subsidiaries held-for-sale reflect those assets
    and liabilities which were previously determined to be financial
    instruments and which were reflected in other financial
    statement captions in the table above in previous periods but
    have been reclassified to this caption to reflect the
    discontinued nature of the operations. The estimated fair value
    of the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries held-for-sale have
    been determined on a basis consistent with similar instruments
    as described herein.

Derivative Financial Instruments    The
    estimated fair value of derivative financial instruments,
    including financial futures, financial forwards, interest rate,
    credit default and foreign currency swaps, foreign currency
    forwards, caps, floors, and options are based upon quotations
    obtained from dealers or other reliable sources. See Note 4
    for derivative fair value disclosures.

F-150

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

F-151

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(1)  

Carrying values presented herein differ from those presented on
    the consolidated balance sheet because certain items within the
    respective financial statement caption are not considered
    financial instruments. Financial statement captions omitted from
    the table above are not considered financial instruments. 

(2)  

Net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts are
    presented within premiums and other receivables. Net embedded
    derivatives within liability host contracts are presented within
    policyholder account balances. Equity securities also include
    embedded derivatives of ($173) million. 

(3)  

Commitments are off-balance sheet obligations. Negative
    estimated fair values represent off-balance sheet liabilities. 

The methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of
    financial instruments are summarized as follows:

Fixed Maturity Securities, Equity Securities and Trading
    Securities    When available, the estimated fair
    value of the Company s fixed maturity, equity and trading
    securities are based on quoted prices in active markets that are
    readily and regularly obtainable. Generally, these are the most
    liquid of the Company s securities holdings and valuation
    of these securities does not involve management judgment.

When quoted prices in active markets are not available, the
    determination of estimated fair value is based on market
    standard valuation methodologies. The market standard valuation
    methodologies utilized include: discounted cash flow
    methodologies, matrix pricing or other similar techniques. The
    assumptions and inputs in applying these market standard
    valuation methodologies include, but are not limited to:
    interest rates, credit standing of the issuer or counterparty,
    industry sector of the issuer, coupon rate, call provisions,
    sinking fund requirements, maturity, estimated duration and
    management s assumptions regarding liquidity and estimated
    future cash flows. Accordingly, the estimated fair values are
    based on available market information and management s
    judgments about financial instruments.

The significant inputs to the market standard valuation
    methodologies for certain types of securities with reasonable
    levels of price transparency are inputs that are observable in
    the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by
    observable market data. Such observable inputs include
    benchmarking prices for similar assets in active, liquid
    markets, quoted prices in markets that are not active and
    observable yields and spreads in the market.

When observable inputs are not available, the market standard
    valuation methodologies for determining the estimated fair value
    of certain types of securities that trade infrequently, and
    therefore have little or no price transparency, rely on inputs
    that are significant to the estimated fair value that are not
    observable in the market or cannot be derived principally from
    or corroborated by observable market data. These unobservable
    inputs can be based in large part on management judgment or
    estimation, and cannot be supported by reference to market
    activity. Even though unobservable, these inputs are based on
    assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances and
    consistent with what other market participants would use when
    pricing such securities.

The use of different methodologies, assumptions and inputs may
    have a material effect on the estimated fair values of the
    Company s securities holdings.

Mortgage and Consumer Loans    The Company
    originates mortgage and consumer loans for both investment
    purposes and with the intention to sell them to third parties.
    Commercial and agricultural loans are originated for investment
    purposes and are primarily carried at amortized cost within the
    consolidated financial statements. Loans classified as consumer
    loans are generally purchased from third parties for investment
    purposes and are primarily carried at amortized cost. Mortgage
    loans held-for-sale consist principally of residential mortgage
    loans for which the Company has elected the fair value option
    and which are carried at estimated fair value in the
    consolidated financial statements and to a significantly lesser
    degree certain loans which were previously held-for-investment
    but

F-152

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

where the Company has changed its intention as it relates to
    holding them for investment. The estimated fair values of these
    loans are determined as follows:

Mortgage and Consumer Loans
    Held-for-Investment    For mortgage and consumer
    loans held-for-investment and carried at amortized cost, fair
    value is primarily determined by estimating expected future cash
    flows and discounting them using current interest rates for
    similar loans with similar credit risk.

Mortgage Loans Held-for-Sale    Mortgage loans
    held-for-sale principally includes residential mortgages for
    which the fair value option was elected and which are carried at
    estimated fair value. Generally, quoted market prices are not
    available for residential mortgage loans held-for-sale;
    accordingly, the estimated fair values of such assets are
    determined based on observable pricing of residential mortgage
    loans held-for-sale with similar characteristics, or observable
    pricing for securities backed by similar types of loans,
    adjusted to convert the securities prices to loan prices. When
    observable pricing for similar loans or securities that are
    backed by similar loans are not available, the estimated fair
    values of residential mortgage loans held-for-sale are
    determined using independent broker quotations, which is
    intended to approximate the amounts that would be received from
    third parties. Certain other mortgages previously classified as
    held-for-investment have also been designated as held-for-sale.
    For these loans, estimated fair value is determined using
    independent broker quotations or, when the loan is in
    foreclosure or otherwise determined to be collateral dependent,
    the fair value of the underlying collateral estimated using
    internal models.

Policy Loans    For policy loans with fixed
    interest rates, estimated fair values are determined using a
    discounted cash flow model applied to groups of similar policy
    loans determined by the nature of the underlying insurance
    liabilities. Cash flow estimates are developed applying a
    weighted-average interest rate to the outstanding principal
    balance of the respective group of loans and an estimated
    average maturity determined through experience studies of the
    past performance of policyholder repayment behavior for similar
    loans. These cash flows are discounted using current risk-free
    interest rates with no adjustment for borrower credit risk as
    these loans are fully collateralized by the cash surrender value
    of the underlying insurance policy. The estimated fair value for
    policy loans with variable interest rates approximates carrying
    value due to the absence of borrower credit risk and the short
    time period between interest rate resets, which presents minimal
    risk of a material change in estimated fair value due to changes
    in market interest rates.

Real Estate Joint Ventures and Other Limited Partnership
    Interests    Other limited partnerships and real
    estate joint ventures included in the preceding table consist of
    those investments accounted for using the cost method. The
    remaining carrying value recognized in the consolidated balance
    sheet represents investments in real estate or real estate joint
    ventures and other limited partnerships accounted for using the
    equity method, which do not satisfy the definition of financial
    instruments for which fair value is required to be disclosed.

The estimated fair values for other limited partnership
    interests and real estate joint ventures accounted for under the
    cost method are generally based on the Company s share of
    the net asset value ( NAV ) as provided in the
    financial statements of the investees. In certain circumstances,
    management may adjust the net asset value by a premium or
    discount when it has sufficient evidence to support applying
    such adjustments.

Short-term Investments    Certain short-term
    investments do not qualify as securities and are recognized at
    amortized cost in the consolidated balance sheet. For these
    instruments, the Company believes that there is minimal risk of
    material changes in interest rates or credit of the issuer such
    that estimated fair value approximates carrying value. In light
    of recent market conditions, short-term investments have been
    monitored to ensure there is sufficient demand and maintenance
    of issuer credit quality and the Company has determined
    additional adjustment is not required. Short-term investments
    that meet the definition of a security are recognized at
    estimated fair value in the consolidated balance sheet in the
    same manner described above for similar instruments that are
    classified within captions of other major investment classes.

Other Invested Assets    Other invested assets
    in the consolidated balance sheet is principally comprised of
    freestanding derivatives with positive estimated fair values,
    leveraged leases, investments in tax credit partnerships,

F-153

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

joint venture investments, mortgage servicing rights, investment
    in a funding agreement, funds withheld at interest and various
    interest-bearing assets held in foreign subsidiaries. Leveraged
    leases and investments in tax credit partnerships and joint
    ventures, which are accounted for under the equity method, are
    not financial instruments subject to fair value disclosure.
    Accordingly, they have been excluded from the preceding table.

The estimated fair value of derivatives   with
    positive and negative estimated fair values   is
    described in the respectively labeled section which follows.

Although mortgage servicing rights are not financial
    instruments, the Company has included them in the preceding
    table as a result of its election to carry mortgage servicing
    rights at fair value pursuant to SFAS No. 140,
     Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets
    and Extinguishments of Liabilities , as amended by
    SFAS No. 156,  Accounting for Servicing of Financial
    Assets . As sales of mortgage servicing rights tend to occur
    in private transactions where the precise terms and conditions
    of the sales are typically not readily available, observable
    market valuations are limited. As such, the Company relies
    primarily on a discounted cash flow model to estimate the fair
    value of the mortgage servicing rights. The model requires
    inputs such as type of loan (fixed vs. variable and agency vs.
    other), age of loan, loan interest rates and current market
    interest rates that are generally observable. The model also
    requires the use of unobservable inputs including assumptions
    regarding estimates of discount rates, loan pre-payment, and
    servicing costs.

The fair value of the investment in a funding agreement is
    estimated discounting the expected future cash flows using
    current market rates and the credit risk of the note issuer.

For funds withheld at interest and the various interest-bearing
    assets held in foreign subsidiaries, the Company evaluates the
    specific facts and circumstances of each instrument to determine
    the appropriate estimated fair values. These estimated fair
    values were not materially different from the recognized
    carrying values.

Cash and Cash Equivalents    Due to the
    short-term maturities of cash and cash equivalents, the Company
    believes there is minimal risk of material changes in interest
    rates or credit of the issuer such that estimated fair value
    generally approximates carrying value. In light of recent market
    conditions, cash and cash equivalent instruments have been
    monitored to ensure there is sufficient demand and maintenance
    of issuer credit quality, or sufficient solvency in the case of
    depository institutions, and the Company has determined
    additional adjustment is not required.

Accrued Investment Income    Due to the
    short-term until settlement of accrued investment income, the
    Company believes there is minimal risk of material changes in
    interest rates or credit of the issuer such that estimated fair
    value approximates carrying value. In light of recent market
    conditions, the Company has monitored the credit quality of the
    issuers and has determined additional adjustment is not required.

Premiums and Other Receivables    Premiums and
    other receivables in the consolidated balance sheet is
    principally comprised of premiums due and unpaid for insurance
    contracts, amounts recoverable under reinsurance contracts,
    amounts on deposit with financial institutions to facilitate
    daily settlements related to certain derivative positions,
    amounts receivable for securities sold but not yet settled, fees
    and general operating receivables, and embedded derivatives
    related to the ceded reinsurance of certain variable annuity
    riders.

Premiums receivable and those amounts recoverable under
    reinsurance treaties determined to transfer sufficient risk are
    not financial instruments subject to disclosure and thus have
    been excluded from the amounts presented in the preceding table.
    Amounts recoverable under ceded reinsurance contracts which the
    Company has determined do not transfer sufficient risk such that
    they are accounted for using the deposit method of accounting
    have been included in the preceding table with the estimated
    fair value determined as the present value of expected future
    cash flows under the related contracts discounted using an
    interest rate determined to reflect the appropriate credit
    standing of the assuming counterparty.

The amounts on deposit for derivative settlements essentially
    represent the equivalent of demand deposit balances such that
    the estimated fair value approximates carrying value. In light
    of recent market conditions, the

F-154

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Company has monitored the solvency position of the financial
    institutions and has determined additional adjustments are not
    required.

Embedded derivatives recognized in connection with ceded
    reinsurance of certain variable annuity riders are included in
    this caption in the consolidated financial statements but
    excluded from this caption in the preceding table as they are
    separately presented.

Other Assets    Other assets in the consolidated
    balance sheet is principally comprised of prepaid expenses,
    amounts held under corporate owned life insurance, fixed assets,
    capitalized software, deferred sales inducements, VODA, VOCRA,
    and a receivable for cash collateral pledged under the MRC
    collateral financing arrangement as described in Note 11.
    With the exception of the receivable for collateral pledged,
    other assets are not considered financial instruments subject to
    disclosure. Accordingly, the amount presented in the preceding
    table represent the receivable for collateral pledged for which
    the estimated fair value was determined by discounting the
    expected future cash flows using a discount rate that reflects
    the credit of the financial institution.

Separate Account Assets    Separate account
    assets are carried at estimated fair value and reported as a
    summarized total on the consolidated balance sheet in accordance
    with Statement of Position ( SOP )
     03-1, 
     Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain
    Nontraditional Long-Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts
      ( SOP 03-1 ). 
    The estimated fair values of separate account assets are based
    on the estimated fair value of the underlying assets owned by
    the separate account. Assets within the Company s separate
    accounts include: mutual funds, fixed maturity securities,
    equity securities, mortgage loans, derivatives, hedge funds,
    other limited partnership interests, short-term investments and
    cash and cash equivalents. The estimated fair value of mutual
    funds is based upon quoted prices or reported net assets values
    provided by the fund manager and are reviewed by management to
    determine whether such values require adjustment to represent
    exit value. The estimated fair values of fixed maturity
    securities, equity securities, derivatives, short-term
    investments and cash and cash equivalents held by separate
    accounts are determined on a basis consistent with the
    methodologies described herein for similar financial instruments
    held within the general account. The estimated fair value of
    hedge funds is based upon NAVs provided by the fund manager and
    are reviewed by management to determine whether such values
    require adjustment to represent exit value. The estimated fair
    value of mortgage loans is determined by discounting expected
    future cash flows, using current interest rates for similar
    loans with similar credit risk. Other limited partnership
    interests are valued giving consideration to the value of the
    underlying holdings of the partnerships and by applying a
    premium or discount, if appropriate, for factors such as
    liquidity, bid/ask spreads, the performance record of the fund
    manager or other relevant variables which may impact the exit
    value of the particular partnership interest.

Policyholder Account Balances    Policyholder
    account balances in the table above include investment contracts
    and customer bank deposits. Embedded derivatives on investment
    contracts and certain variable annuity riders accounted for as
    embedded derivatives are included in this caption in the
    consolidated financial statements but excluded from this caption
    in the table above as they are separately presented therein. The
    remaining difference between the amounts reflected as
    policyholder account balances in the preceding table and those
    recognized in the consolidated balance sheet represents those
    amounts due under contracts that satisfy the definition of
    insurance contracts and are not considered financial instruments.

The investment contracts primarily include guaranteed investment
    contracts, certain funding arrangements, fixed deferred
    annuities, modified guaranteed annuities, fixed term payout
    annuities, and total control accounts. The fair values for these
    investment contracts are estimated by discounting best estimate
    future cash flows using current market risk-free interest rates
    and adding a spread for the Company s own credit determined
    using market standard swap valuation models and observable
    market inputs that take into consideration publicly available
    information relating to the Company s debt as well as its
    claims paying ability.

Due to frequency of interest rate resets on customer bank
    deposits held in money market accounts, the Company believes
    that there is minimal risk of a material change in interest
    rates such that the estimated fair value

F-155

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

approximates carrying value. For time deposits, estimated fair
    values are estimated by discounting the expected cash flows to
    maturity using a discount rate based on an average market rate
    for certificates of deposit being offered by a representative
    group of large financial institutions as of the date of the
    valuation.

Short-term and Long-term Debt, Collateral Financing
    Arrangements, and Junior Subordinated Debt    The
    estimated fair value for short-term debt approximates carrying
    value due to the short-term nature of these obligations. The
    estimated fair values of long-term debt, collateral financing
    arrangements, and junior subordinated debt securities are
    generally determined by discounting expected future cash flows
    using market rates currently available for debt with similar,
    remaining maturities and reflecting the credit risk of the
    Company including inputs, when available, from actively traded
    debt of the Company or other companies with similar types of
    borrowing arrangements. Risk-adjusted discount rates applied to
    the expected future cash flows can vary significantly based upon
    the specific terms of each individual arrangement, including,
    but not limited to: subordinated rights; contractual interest
    rates in relation to current market rates; the structuring of
    the arrangement; and the nature and observability of the
    applicable valuation inputs. Use of different risk-adjusted
    discount rates could result in different estimated fair values.

The carrying value of long-term debt presented in the table
    above differs from the amounts presented in the consolidated
    balance sheet as it does not include capital leases which are
    not required to be disclosed at estimated fair value.

Payables for Collateral Under Securities Loaned and Other
    Transactions    The estimated fair value for
    payables for collateral under securities loaned and other
    transactions approximates carrying value. The related agreements
    to loan securities are short-term in nature such that Company
    believes there is limited risk of a material change in market
    interest rates. Additionally, because borrowers are
    cross-collateralized by the borrowed securities, the Company
    believes no additional consideration for changes in its own
    credit are necessary.

Other Liabilities    Other liabilities in the
    consolidated balance sheet is principally comprised of
    freestanding derivatives with negative estimated fair values;
    securities trading liabilities; tax and litigation contingency
    liabilities; obligations for employee-related benefits; interest
    due on the Company s debt obligations and on cash
    collateral held in relation to securities lending; dividends
    payable; amounts due for securities purchased but not yet
    settled; amounts due under assumed reinsurance contracts;
    minority interests in consolidated subsidiaries; and general
    operating accruals and payables.

The estimated fair value of derivatives   with
    positive and negative estimated fair values   is
    described in the respectively labeled section which follows.

The amounts included in the table above reflect those other
    liabilities that satisfy the definition of financial instruments
    subject to disclosure. These items consist primarily of
    securities trading liabilities; interest and dividends payable;
    amounts due for securities purchased but not yet settled; and
    amounts payable under certain assumed reinsurance contracts
    recognized using the deposit method of accounting. The Company
    evaluates the specific terms, facts and circumstances of each
    arrangement to determine the appropriate estimated fair values,
    which were not materially different from the recognized carrying
    values.

Separate Account Liabilities    Separate account
    liabilities included in the table above represent those balances
    due to policyholders under contracts that are classified as
    investment contracts. The difference between the separate
    account liabilities reflected above and the amounts presented in
    the consolidated balance sheet represents those contracts
    classified as insurance contracts which do not satisfy the
    criteria of financial instruments for which fair value is to be
    disclosed.

Separate account liabilities classified as investment contracts
    primarily represent variable annuities with no significant
    mortality risk to the Company such that the death benefit is
    equal to the account balance; funding arrangements related to
    institutional group life contracts; and certain contracts that
    provide for benefit funding under Institutional retirement
      savings products.

F-156

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Separate account liabilities, whether related to investment or
    insurance contracts, are recognized in the consolidated balance
    sheet at an equivalent summary total of the separate account
    assets as prescribed by
     SOP 03-1. 
    Separate account assets, which equal net deposits, net
    investment income and realized and unrealized capital gains and
    losses, are fully offset by corresponding amounts credited to
    the contractholders  liability which is reflected in
    separate account liabilities. Since separate account liabilities
    are fully funded by cash flows from the separate account assets
    which are recognized at estimated fair value as described above,
    the Company believes the value of those assets approximates the
    estimated fair value of the related separate account liabilities.

Derivatives    The estimated fair value of
    derivatives is determined through the use of quoted market
    prices for exchange-traded derivatives and financial forwards to
    sell residential mortgage-backed securities or through the use
    of pricing models for over-the-counter derivatives. The
    determination of estimated fair value, when quoted market values
    are not available, is based on market standard valuation
    methodologies and inputs that are assumed to be consistent with
    what other market participants would use when pricing the
    instruments. Derivative valuations can be affected by changes in
    interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial
    indices, credit spreads, default risk (including the
    counterparties to the contract), volatility, liquidity and
    changes in estimates and assumptions used in the pricing models.

The significant inputs to the pricing models for most
    over-the-counter derivatives are inputs that are observable in
    the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by
    observable market data. Significant inputs that are observable
    generally include: interest rates, foreign currency exchange
    rates, interest rate curves, credit curves and volatility.
    However, certain over-the-counter derivatives may rely on inputs
    that are significant to the estimated fair value that are not
    observable in the market or cannot be derived principally from
    or corroborated by observable market data. Significant inputs
    that are unobservable generally include: independent broker
    quotes, credit correlation assumptions, references to emerging
    market currencies and inputs that are outside the observable
    portion of the interest rate curve, credit curve, volatility or
    other relevant market measure. These unobservable inputs may
    involve significant management judgment or estimation. Even
    though unobservable, these inputs are based on assumptions
    deemed appropriate given the circumstances and consistent with
    what other market participants would use when pricing such
    instruments.

The credit risk of both the counterparty and the Company are
    considered in determining the estimated fair value for all
    over-the-counter derivatives after taking into account the
    effects of netting agreements and collateral arrangements.
    Credit risk is monitored and consideration of any potential
    credit adjustment is based on net exposure by counterparty. This
    is due to the existence of netting agreements and collateral
    arrangements which effectively serve to mitigate risk. The
    Company values its derivative positions using the standard swap
    curve which includes a credit risk adjustment. This credit risk
    adjustment is appropriate for those parties that execute trades
    at pricing levels consistent with the standard swap curve. As
    the Company and its significant derivative counterparties
    consistently execute trades at such pricing levels, additional
    credit risk adjustments are not currently required in the
    valuation process. The need for such additional credit risk
    adjustments is monitored by the Company. The Company s
    ability to consistently execute at such pricing levels is in
    part due to the netting agreements and collateral arrangements
    that are in place with all of its significant derivative
    counterparties.

Most inputs for over-the-counter derivatives are mid market
    inputs but, in certain cases, bid level inputs are used when
    they are deemed more representative of exit value. Market
    liquidity as well as the use of different methodologies,
    assumptions and inputs, may have a material effect on the
    estimated fair values of the Company s derivatives and
    could materially affect net income.

Embedded Derivatives within Asset and Liability Host
    Contracts    Embedded derivatives principally
    include certain direct, assumed and ceded variable annuity
    riders and certain guaranteed investment contracts with equity
    or bond indexed crediting rates. Embedded derivatives are
    recorded in the financial statements at estimated fair value
    with changes in estimated fair value adjusted through net income.

The Company issues certain variable annuity products with
    guaranteed minimum benefit riders. GMWB, GMAB and certain GMIB
    riders are embedded derivatives, which are measured at estimated
    fair value separately

F-157

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

from the host variable annuity contract, with changes in
    estimated fair value reported in net investment gains (losses).
    These embedded derivatives are classified within policyholder
    account balances. The fair value for these riders is estimated
    using the present value of future benefits minus the present
    value of future fees using actuarial and capital market
    assumptions related to the projected cash flows over the
    expected lives of the contracts. A risk neutral valuation
    methodology is used under which the cash flows from the riders
    are projected under multiple capital market scenarios using
    observable risk free rates. Effective January 1, 2008, upon
    adoption of SFAS 157, the valuation of these riders now
    includes an adjustment for the Company s own credit and
    risk margins for non-capital market inputs. The Company s
    own credit adjustment is determined taking into consideration
    publicly available information relating to the Company s
    debt as well as its claims paying ability. Risk margins are
    established to capture the non-capital market risks of the
    instrument which represent the additional compensation a market
    participant would require to assume the risks related to the
    uncertainties of such actuarial assumptions as annuitization,
    premium persistency, partial withdrawal and surrenders. The
    establishment of risk margins requires the use of significant
    management judgment. These riders may be more costly than
    expected in volatile or declining equity markets. Market
    conditions including, but not limited to, changes in interest
    rates, equity indices, market volatility and foreign currency
    exchange rates; changes in the Company s own credit
    standing; and variations in actuarial assumptions regarding
    policyholder behavior and risk margins related to non-capital
    market inputs may result in significant fluctuations in the
    estimated fair value of the riders that could materially affect
    net income.

The Company ceded the risk associated with certain of the GMIB
    and GMAB riders described in the preceding paragraph. These
    reinsurance contracts contain embedded derivatives which are
    included in premiums and other receivables with changes in
    estimated fair value reported in net investments gains (losses)
    or policyholder benefit and claims depending on the income
    statement classification of the direct risk. The value of the
    embedded derivatives on the ceded risk is determined using a
    methodology consistent with that described previously for the
    riders directly written by the Company.

The estimated fair value of the embedded equity and bond indexed
    derivatives contained in certain guaranteed investment contracts
    is determined using market standard swap valuation models and
    observable market inputs, including an adjustment for the
    Company s own credit that takes into consideration publicly
    available information relating to the Company s debt as
    well as its claims paying ability. The estimated fair value of
    these embedded derivatives are included, along with their
    guaranteed investment contract host, within policyholder account
    balances with changes in estimated fair value recorded in net
    investment gains (losses). Changes in equity and bond indices,
    interest rates and the Company s credit standing may result
    in significant fluctuations in the estimated fair value of these
    embedded derivatives that could materially affect net income.

The accounting for embedded derivatives is complex and
    interpretations of the primary accounting standards continue to
    evolve in practice. If interpretations change, there is a risk
    that features previously not bifurcated may require bifurcation
    and reporting at estimated fair value in the consolidated
    financial statements and respective changes in estimated fair
    value could materially affect net income.

Assets and Liabilities of Subsidiaries
    Held-For-Sale    The carrying value of the assets
    and liabilities of subsidiaries held-for-sale reflects those
    assets and liabilities which were previously determined to be
    financial instruments and which were reflected in other
    financial statement captions in the table above in previous
    periods but have been reclassified to this caption to reflect
    the discontinued nature of the operations. The estimated fair
    value of the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries
    held-for-sale have been determined on a basis consistent with
    the asset type as described herein.

Mortgage Loan Commitments and Commitments to Fund Bank
    Credit Facilities, Bridge Loans, and Private Corporate Bond
    Investments    The estimated fair values for
    mortgage loan commitments and commitments to fund bank credit
    facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments
    reflected in the above table represent the difference between
    the discounted expected future cash flows using interest rates
    that incorporate current credit risk for similar instruments on
    the reporting date and the principal amounts of the original
    commitments.

F-158

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Assets
    and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value  

Recurring
    Fair Value Measurements   

The assets and liabilities measured at estimated fair value on a
    recurring basis, including those items for which the Company has
    elected the fair value option, are determined as described in
    the preceding section. These estimated fair values and their
    corresponding fair value hierarchy are summarized as follows:

F-159

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(1)  

Short-term investments as presented in the table above differ
    from the amounts presented in the consolidated balance sheet
    because certain short-term investments are not measured at
    estimated fair value (e.g. time deposits, money market funds,
    etc.). 

(2)  

Mortgage and consumer loans as presented in the table above
    differ from the amount presented in the consolidated balance
    sheet as this table only includes residential mortgage loans
    held-for-sale measured at estimated fair value on a recurring
    basis. 

(3)  

Derivative assets are presented within other invested assets and
    derivatives liabilities are presented within other liabilities.
    The amounts are presented gross in the table above to reflect
    the presentation in the consolidated balance sheet, but are
    presented net for purposes of the rollforward in the following
    tables. 

(4)  

Net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts are
    presented within premiums and other receivables. Net embedded
    derivatives within liability host contracts are presented within
    policyholder account balances. Equity securities also includes
    embedded derivatives of ($173) million. 

(5)  

Mortgage servicing rights are presented within other invested
    assets. 

(6)  

Separate account assets are measured at estimated fair value.
    Investment performance related to separate account assets is
    fully offset by corresponding amounts credited to
    contractholders whose liability is reflected within separate
    account liabilities. Separate account liabilities are set equal
    to the estimated fair value of separate account assets as
    prescribed by
     SOP 03-1.  

(7)  

Trading liabilities are presented within other liabilities. 

The Company has categorized its assets and liabilities into the
    three-level fair value hierarchy, as defined in Note 1,
    based upon the priority of the inputs to the respective
    valuation technique. The following summarizes the types of
    assets and liabilities included within the three-level fair
    value hierarchy presented in the preceding table.

Level 1 

This category includes certain U.S. Treasury and agency
    fixed maturity securities, certain foreign government fixed
    maturity securities; exchange-traded common stock; and certain
    short-term money market securities. As it relates to
    derivatives, this level includes financial futures including
    exchange-traded equity and interest rate futures, as well as
    financial forwards to sell residential mortgage-backed
    securities. Separate account assets classified within this level
    principally include mutual funds. Also included are assets held
    within separate accounts which are similar in nature to those
    classified in this level for the general account.

Level 2 

This category includes fixed maturity and equity securities
    priced principally by independent pricing services using
    observable inputs. These fixed maturity securities include most
    U.S. Treasury and agency securities as well as the majority
    of U.S. and foreign corporate securities, residential
    mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed
    securities, state and political subdivision securities, foreign
    government securities, and asset-backed securities. Equity
    securities classified as Level 2 securities consist
    principally of non-redeemable preferred stock and certain equity
    securities where market quotes are available but are not
    considered actively traded. Short-term investments and trading
    securities included within Level 2 are of a similar nature
    to these fixed maturity and equity securities. Mortgage and
    consumer loans included in Level 2 include residential
    mortgage loans held-for-sale for which there is readily
    available observable pricing for similar loans or securities
    backed by similar loans and the unobservable adjustments to such
    prices are insignificant. As it relates to derivatives, this
    level includes all types of derivative instruments utilized by
    the Company with the exception of exchange-traded futures and
    financial forwards to sell residential mortgage-backed
    securities included within Level 1 and those derivative
    instruments with unobservable inputs as described in
    Level 3. Separate account assets classified within this
    level are generally similar to those classified within this
    level for the general account. Hedge funds owned by separate
    accounts are also included within this level. Embedded
    derivatives classified within this level include embedded equity
    derivatives contained in certain guaranteed investment contracts.

F-160

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Level 3 

This category includes fixed maturity securities priced
    principally through independent broker quotations or market
    standard valuation methodologies using inputs that are not
    market observable or cannot be derived principally from or
    corroborated by observable market data. This level consists of
    less liquid fixed maturity securities with very limited trading
    activity or where less price transparency exists around the
    inputs to the valuation methodologies including: U.S. and
    foreign corporate securities   including below
    investment grade private placements; residential mortgage-backed
    securities; asset-backed securities   including all of
    those supported by sub-prime mortgage loans; and other fixed
    maturity securities such as structured securities. Equity
    securities classified as Level 3 securities consist
    principally of common stock of privately held companies and
    non-redeemable preferred stock where there has been very limited
    trading activity or where less price transparency exists around
    the inputs to the valuation. Short-term investments and trading
    securities included within Level 3 are of a similar nature
    to these fixed maturity and equity securities. Mortgage and
    consumer loans included in Level 3 include residential
    mortgage loans held-for-sale for which pricing for similar loans
    or securities backed by similar loans is not observable and the
    estimate of fair value is determined using unobservable broker
    quotes. As it relates to derivatives this category includes:
    financial forwards including swap spread locks with maturities
    which extend beyond observable periods; interest rate lock
    commitments with certain unobservable inputs, including
    pull-through rates; equity variance swaps with unobservable
    volatility inputs or that are priced via independent broker
    quotations; foreign currency swaps which are cancelable and
    priced through independent broker quotations; interest rate
    swaps with maturities which extend beyond the observable portion
    of the yield curve; credit default swaps based upon baskets of
    credits having unobservable credit correlations as well as
    credit default swaps with maturities which extend beyond the
    observable portion of the credit curves and credit default swaps
    priced through independent broker quotes; foreign currency
    forwards priced via independent broker quotations or with
    liquidity adjustments; equity options with unobservable
    volatility inputs; and interest rate caps and floors referencing
    unobservable yield curves
     and/or  which
    include liquidity and volatility adjustments. Separate account
    assets classified within this level are generally similar to
    those classified within this level for the general account;
    however, they also include mortgage loans, and other limited
    partnership interests. Embedded derivatives classified within
    this level include embedded derivatives associated with certain
    variable annuity riders. This category also includes mortgage
    servicing rights which are carried at estimated fair value and
    have multiple significant unobservable inputs including discount
    rates, estimates of loan prepayments and servicing costs.

A rollforward of all assets and liabilities measured at
    estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant
    unobservable (Level 3) inputs for year ended
    December 31, 2008 is as follows:

F-161

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(1)  

Impact of SFAS 157 adoption represents the amount
    recognized in earnings as a change in estimate upon the adoption
    of SFAS 157 associated with Level 3 financial
    instruments held at January 1, 2008. The net impact of
    adoption on Level 3 assets and liabilities presented in the
    table above was a $23 million increase to net assets. Such
    amount was also impacted by an increase to DAC of
    $17 million. The impact of adoption of SFAS 157 on
    RGA   not reflected in the table above as a result of
    the reflection of RGA in discontinued operations   was
    a net increase of $2 million (i.e., a decrease in
    Level 3 net embedded derivative liabilities of
    $17 million offset by a DAC decrease of $15 million)
    for a total impact of $42 million on Level 3 assets
    and liabilities. This impact of $42 million along with a
    $12 million reduction in the estimated fair value of
    Level 2 freestanding derivatives, results in a total net
    impact of adoption of SFAS 157 of $30 million as
    described in Note 1. 

(2)  

Amortization of premium/discount is included within net
    investment income which is reported within the earnings caption
    of total gains/losses. Impairments are included within net
    investment gains (losses) which is reported within the earnings
    caption of total gains/losses. Lapses associated with embedded
    derivatives are included with the earnings caption of total
    gains/losses. 

(3)  

Interest and dividend accruals, as well as cash interest coupons
    and dividends received, are excluded from the rollforward. 

(4)  

The amount reported within purchases, sales, issuances and
    settlements is the purchase/issuance price (for purchases and
    issuances) and the sales/settlement proceeds (for sales and
    settlements) based upon the actual date purchased/issued or
    sold/settled. Items purchased/issued and sold/settled in the
    same period are excluded from the rollforward. For embedded
    derivatives, attributed fees are included within this caption
    along with settlements, if any. 

(5)  

Total gains and losses (in earnings and other comprehensive
    income (loss)) are calculated assuming transfers in (out) of
    Level 3 occurred at the beginning of the period. Items
    transferred in and out in the same period are excluded from the
    rollforward. 

(6)  

Freestanding derivative assets and liabilities are presented net
    for purposes of the rollforward. 

(7)  

The additions and reductions (due to loan payments) affecting
    mortgage servicing rights were $350 million and
    ($10) million respectively, for the year ended
    December 31, 2008. 

(8)  

The changes in estimated fair value due to changes in valuation
    model inputs or assumptions, and other changes in estimated fair
    value affecting mortgage servicing rights were
    ($149) million and $0, respectively, for the year ended
    December 31, 2008. 

(9)  

Investment performance related to separate account assets is
    fully offset by corresponding amounts credited to
    contractholders whose liability is reflected within separate
    account liabilities. 

(10)  

Embedded derivative assets and liabilities are presented net for
    purposes of the rollforward. 

(11)  

Amounts presented do not reflect any associated hedging
    activities. Actual earnings associated with Level 3,
    inclusive of hedging activities, could differ materially. 

F-162

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The table below summarizes both realized and unrealized gains
    and losses for the year ended December 31, 2008 due to
    changes in estimated fair value recorded in earnings for
    Level 3 assets and liabilities:

The table below summarizes the portion of unrealized gains and
    losses recorded in earnings for the year ended December 31,
    2008 for Level 3 assets and liabilities that are still held
    at December 31, 2008.

Fair
    Value Option   Mortgage and Consumer
    Loans   

The Company has elected fair value accounting for certain
    residential mortgage loans held-for-sale. At December 31,
    2008, the estimated fair value carrying amount of
    $1,975 million is greater than the aggregate unpaid
    principal amount of $1,920 million by $55 million.
    None of the loans where the fair value option has been elected
    are more than 90 days past due or in non-accrual status at
    December 31, 2008.

Residential mortgage loans held-for-sale accounted for under
    SFAS 159 are initially measured at estimated fair value.
    Gains and losses from initial measurement, subsequent changes in
    estimated fair value, and gains or losses on sales are
    recognized in other revenues. Interest income on residential
    mortgage loans held-for-sale is recorded based on the stated
    rate of the loan and is recorded in net investment income.

Changes in estimated fair value of $55 million have been
    included in the statement of income for residential mortgage
    loans held-for-sale for the year ended December 31, 2008.

F-163

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Changes in estimated fair value due to instrument-specific
    credit risk are estimated based on changes in credit spreads for
    non-agency loans and adjustments in individual loan quality, of
    which there were none for the year ended December 31, 2008.

Non-Recurring
    Fair Value Measurements   

At December 31, 2008, the Company held $220 million in
    mortgage loans which are carried at estimated fair value based
    on independent broker quotations or, if the loans were in
    foreclosure or are otherwise determined to be collateral
    dependent, on the value of the underlying collateral of which
    $188 million was related to impaired mortgage loans
    held-for-investment and $32 million to certain mortgage
    loans held-for-sale. These impaired mortgage loans were recorded
    at estimated fair value and represent a nonrecurring fair value
    measurement. The estimated fair value was categorized as
    Level 3. Included within net investment gains (losses) for
    such impaired mortgage loans are net impairments of
    $79 million for the year ended December 31, 2008.

At December 31, 2008, the Company held $137 million in
    cost basis other limited partnership interests which were
    impaired during the year ended December 31, 2008 based on
    the underlying limited partnership financial statements. These
    other limited partnership interests were recorded at estimated
    fair value and represent a nonrecurring fair value measurement.
    The estimated fair value was categorized as Level 3.
    Included within net investment gains (losses) for such other
    limited partnerships are impairments of $105 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2008.

Dividends   

On February 18, 2009, the Company s Board of Directors
    announced dividends of $0.25 per share, for a total of
    $6 million, on its Series A preferred shares, and
    $0.40625 per share, for a total of $24 million, on its
    Series B preferred shares, subject to the final
    confirmation that it has met the financial tests specified in
    the Series A and Series B preferred shares, which the
    Company anticipates will be made on or about March 5, 2009,
    the earliest date permitted in accordance with the terms of the
    securities. Both dividends will be payable March 16, 2009
    to shareholders of record as of February 28, 2009.

Remarketing
    of Securities and Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts
    Underlying Common Equity Units   

On February 17, 2009, the Holding Company closed the
    successful remarketing of the Series B portion of the
    junior subordinated debentures underlying the common equity
    units. The junior subordinated debentures were modified as
    permitted by their terms to be 7.717% senior debt
    securities Series B, due February 15, 2019. The
    Holding Company did not receive any proceeds from the
    remarketing. Most common equity unit holders chose to have their
    junior subordinated debentures remarketed and used the
    remarketing proceeds to settle their payment obligations under
    the applicable stock purchase contract. For those common equity
    unit holders that elected not to participate in the remarketing
    and elected to use their own cash to satisfy the payment
    obligations under the stock purchase contract, the terms of the
    debt are the same as the remarketed debt.

The subsequent settlement of the stock purchase contracts
    occurred on February 17, 2009, providing proceeds to the
    Holding Company of $1,035 million in exchange for shares of
    the Holding Company s common stock. The Holding Company
    delivered 24,343,154 shares of its newly issued common
    stock to settle the remaining stock purchase contracts issued as
    part of the common equity units sold in June 2005.

See also Notes 10, 12, 13 and 18.

F-164

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc.  

Schedule I  

Consolidated
    Summary of Investments    
     Other Than Investments in Related Parties 
    December 31, 2008 
    (In millions)  

(1)  

The Company s trading securities portfolio is mainly
    comprised of fixed maturity and equity securities. Cost or
    amortized cost for fixed maturity securities and mortgage and
    consumer loans represents original cost reduced by repayments,
    net valuation allowances and writedowns from
    other-than-temporary declines in value and adjusted for
    amortization of premiums or discounts; for equity securities,
    cost represents original cost reduced by writedowns from
    other-than-temporary declines in value; for real estate, cost
    represents original cost reduced by writedowns and adjusted for
    valuation allowances and depreciation; cost for real estate
    joint ventures and other limited partnership interests
    represents original cost reduced for other-than-temporary
    impairments or original cost adjusted for equity in earnings and
    distributions. 

F-165

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc.  

Schedule II  

Condensed
    Financial Information 
     (Parent Company Only) 
    December 31, 2008 and 2007 
    (In millions, except share and per share data)  

See accompanying notes to condensed financial information.

F-166

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc.  

Schedule II  

Condensed
    Financial Information   (Continued) 
    (Parent Company Only) 
    For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 
    (In millions)  

See accompanying notes to condensed financial information.

F-167

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc.  

Schedule II  

Condensed
    Financial Information   (Continued) 
    (Parent Company Only) 
    For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 
    (In millions)  

See accompanying notes to condensed financial information.

F-168

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II 

Notes to
    the Condensed Financial Information 

(Parent
    Company Only)  

1.    

Summary
    of Accounting Policies  

Business   

MetLife  or the  Company  refers to
    MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999 (the
     Holding Company ), and its subsidiaries, including
    Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ). MetLife,
    Inc. is a leading provider of individual insurance, employee
    benefits and financial services with operations throughout the
    United States and the Latin America, Europe and Asia Pacific
    regions. Through its subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife offers
    life insurance, annuities, auto and home insurance, retail
    banking and other financial services to individuals, as well as
    group insurance and retirement   savings products and
    services to corporations and other institutions.

Basis
    of Presentation   

The condensed financial information of the Holding Company
    ( Parent Company Only ) should be read in conjunction
    with the Consolidated Financial Statements of MetLife, Inc. and
    subsidiaries and the notes thereto (the  Consolidated
    Financial Statements ). These condensed nonconsolidated
    financial statements reflect the results of operations,
    financial position and cash flows for the parent company only.
    Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for using the equity
    method of accounting prescribed by Accounting Principles Board
    ( APB ) Opinion No. 18,  The Equity Method of
    Accounting for Investments in Common Stock .

The condensed unconsolidated financial statements are prepared
    in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
    the United States of America ( GAAP ) except as stated
    previously which also requires management to make certain
    estimates and assumptions. The most important of these estimates
    and assumptions relate to the fair value measurements, the
    accounting for goodwill and identifiable intangible assets and
    the provision for potential losses that may arise from
    litigation and regulatory proceedings and tax audits, which may
    affect the amounts reported in the condensed financial
    statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ
    materially from these estimates.

For information on the following, refer to the indicated Notes
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements of MetLife, Inc.:

Business, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant
    Accounting Policies (Note 1)

Long-term and Short-term Debt (Note 10)

Collateral Financing Arrangements (Note 11)

Junior Subordinated Debentures (Note 12)

Common Equity Units (Note 13)

Contingencies, Commitments and Guarantees (Note 16)

Equity (Note 18)

Earnings per Common Share (Note 20)

Subsequent Events (Note 25)

F-169

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II 

Notes to
    the Condensed Financial
    Information   (Continued) 

(Parent
    Company Only)  

2.    

Dispositions
    and Acquisition  

Disposition
    of Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated   

As more fully described in Note 2 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements, on September 12, 2008,
    the Holding Company completed a tax-free split-off of its
    majority-owned subsidiary, Reinsurance Group of America,
    Incorporated ( RGA ). The Holding Company and RGA
    entered into a recapitalization and distribution agreement,
    pursuant to which the Holding Company agreed to divest
    substantially all of its 52% interest in RGA to the Holding
    Company s stockholders. As a result of completion of the
    recapitalization and exchange offer, the Holding Company
    received from its  stockholders 23,093,689 shares of
    the Holding Company s common stock with a market value of
    $1,318 million and, in exchange, delivered
    29,243,539 shares of RGA s Class B common stock
    with a net book value of $1,716 million. The transaction
    resulted in a loss of $398 million, which is included in
    equity in earnings of subsidiaries, and transaction costs of
    $60 million, which is included in other expenses.

Disposition
    of Texas Life Insurance Company   

As more fully described in Note 2 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements, the Holding Company
    anticipates completing the sale of Cova Corporation
    ( Cova ), the parent company of Texas Life Insurance
    Company in early 2009. As a result of the sale agreement, the
    Holding Company recognized a tax benefit of $65 million
    relating to the excess of outside tax basis of Cova over its
    financial reporting basis.

2008
    Acquisition   

During 2008, the Holding Company made an acquisition for
    $202 million. Total consideration paid by the Holding
    Company for this acquisition consisted of $190 million in
    cash and $12 million in transaction costs. At
    December 31, 2008 the Holding Company held a receivable
    related to the settlement of this transaction of
    $3 million. The net fair value of assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed totaled $129 million which is included
    in investment in subsidiaries, resulting in goodwill of
    $70 million of which $22 million was contributed to a
    subsidiary of the Holding Company. The goodwill is deductible
    for tax purposes. During 2008, the Holding Company made a
    capital contribution of $97 million to its subsidiaries in
    the form of other intangible assets of $143 million, net of
    deferred taxes of $46 million, for which the subsidiaries
    receive the benefit of such assets.

3.    

Loans to
    Subsidiaries  

The Holding Company lends funds, as necessary, to its
    subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their capital
    requirements. Such loans are included in loans to subsidiaries
    and consisted of the following at:

In June 2008, MetLife Investors USA Insurance Company
    ( MLI-USA ) repaid the $400 million surplus note
    with an interest rate of 7.35% to the Holding Company.

F-170

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II 

Notes to
    the Condensed Financial
    Information   (Continued) 

(Parent
    Company Only)  

In December 2007, MLIC repaid the $800 million surplus note
    with an interest rate of 5.00% to the Holding Company and then
    issued to the Holding Company a $700 million surplus note
    with an interest rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 1.15%.

Interest income earned on loans to subsidiaries of
    $81 million, $105 million and $105 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively, is included within net investment income.

Payments of interest and principal on surplus notes, which are
    subordinate to all other obligations of the issuing company, may
    be made only with the prior approval of the insurance department
    of the state of domicile.

4.    

Long-term
    and Short-term Debt  

Long-term
    Debt   

Long-term debt outstanding is as follows:

Issuances   

In August 2008, the Holding Company issued $1,035 million
    of long-term debt with an interest rate of 6.82% maturing in
    2018. See also Notes 10, 12 and 13 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

In September 2006, the Holding Company issued $204 million
    of affiliated long-term debt with an interest rate of 6.07%
    maturing in 2016.

In March 2006, the Holding Company issued $10 million of
    affiliated long-term debt with an interest rate of 5.70%
    maturing in 2016.

F-171

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II 

Notes to
    the Condensed Financial
    Information   (Continued) 

(Parent
    Company Only)  

Repayments   

The Holding Company repaid a $500 million 5.25% senior
    note which matured in December 2006.

Short-term
    Debt   

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Holding Company s
    short-term debt of $300 million and $310 million,
    respectively, consisted of commercial paper. During the years
    ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the commercial
    paper s average daily balance was $352 million,
    $634 million and $1.1 billion, respectively, and was
    outstanding for an average of 26 days, 41 days and
    32 days, respectively, with a weighted average interest
    rate of 2.5%, 4.9% and 5.2%, respectively.

Interest
    Expense   

Interest expense is comprised of the following:

Credit
    and Committed Facilities and Letters of Credit   

Credit Facilities.   In December 2008, the
    Holding Company and MetLife Funding, Inc. entered into an
    amended and restated $2,850 million credit agreement (dated
    as of June 2007 and amended and restated at December 23,
    2008) with various financial institutions, the proceeds of
    which are available to be used for general corporate purposes,
    to support their commercial paper programs and for the issuance
    of letters of credit. All borrowings under the credit agreement
    must be repaid by June 2012, except that letters of credit
    outstanding upon termination may remain outstanding until June
    2013. The borrowers and the lenders under this facility may
    agree to extend the term of all or part of the facility to no
    later than June 2014, except that letters of credit outstanding
    upon termination may remain outstanding until June 2015. The
    Holding Company and MetLife Funding, Inc. incurred amendment
    costs of $11 million related to the $2,850 million
    amended and restated credit agreement, which have been
    capitalized and included in other assets. These costs will be
    amortized over the term of the agreement. The Holding Company
    did not have any deferred financing costs associated with the
    original June 2007 credit agreement.

At December 31, 2008, $2.3 billion of letters of
    credit have been issued under these unsecured credit facilities
    on behalf of the Holding Company.

These agreements contain various administrative, reporting,
    legal and financial covenants, including a consolidated net
    worth covenant. Management has no reason to believe that its
    lending counterparties are unable to fulfill their respective
    contractual obligations.

F-172

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II 

Notes to
    the Condensed Financial
    Information   (Continued) 

(Parent
    Company Only)  

Committed Facilities.   The Holding Company
    maintains committed facilities aggregating $11.5 billion at
    December 31, 2008. When drawn upon, these facilities bear
    interest at varying rates in accordance with the respective
    agreements as specified below. The facilities are used for
    collateral for certain of the Company s insurance
    liabilities. These agreements contain various administrative,
    reporting, legal and financial covenants, including a
    consolidated net worth covenant.

Total fees associated with these committed facilities were
    $35 million, of which $13 million related to deferred
    amendment fees, for the year ended December 31, 2008.
    Information on committed facilities at December 31, 2008 is
    as follows:

(1)  

In December 2008, the Holding Company entered into an amended
    and restated one year $500 million letter of credit
    facility (dated as of August 2008 and amended and restated at
    December 31, 2008 with an unaffiliated financial
    institution. Exeter Reassurance Company, Ltd. is a co-applicant
    under this letter of credit facility. This letter of credit
    facility matures in August 2009, except that letters of credit
    outstanding upon termination may remain outstanding until August
    2010. Fees for this agreement include a margin of 2.25% and a
    utilization fee of 0.05%, as applicable. The Holding Company
    incurred amendment costs of $1.3 million related to the
    $500 million amended and restated letter of credit
    facility, which have been capitalized and included in other
    assets. These costs will be amortized over the term of the
    agreement. 

(2)  

The Holding Company is a guarantor under this agreement. 

(3)  

Letters of credit and replacements or renewals thereof issued
    under this facility of $280 million, $10 million and
    $200 million are set to expire no later than December 2015,
    March 2016 and June 2016, respectively. 

(4)  

In December 2008, Exeter as borrower and the Holding Company as
    guarantor entered into an amendment of an existing credit
    agreement with an unaffiliated financial institution. Issuances
    under this facility are set to expire in December 2027. Exeter
    incurred amendment costs of $1.6 million related to the
    amendment of the existing credit agreement, which have been
    capitalized and included in other assets. These costs will be
    amortized over the term of the agreement. 

(5)  

In May 2007, MetLife Reinsurance Company of South Carolina
    ( MRSC ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Holding
    Company, terminated the $2.0 billion amended and restated
    five-year letter of credit and reimbursement agreement entered
    into among the Holding Company, MRSC and various financial
    institutions on April 25, 2005. In its place, the Holding
    Company entered into a
     30-year 
    collateral  

F-173

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II 

Notes to
    the Condensed Financial
    Information   (Continued) 

(Parent
    Company Only)  

financing arrangement as described in Note 11 of the Notes
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which may be extended
    by agreement of the Holding Company and the financial
    institution on each anniversary of the closing of the facility
    for an additional one-year period. At December 31, 2008,
    $2.7 billion had been drawn upon under the collateral
    financing arrangement. 

(6)  

In December 2007, Exeter terminated four letters of credit, with
    expirations from March 2025 through December 2026, which were
    issued under a letter of credit facility with an unaffiliated
    financial institution in an aggregate amount of
    $1.7 billion. The letters of credit had served as
    collateral for Exeter s obligations under a reinsurance
    agreement that was recaptured by MLI-USA in December 2007.
    MLI-USA immediately thereafter entered into a new reinsurance
    agreement with MetLife Reinsurance Company of Vermont
    ( MRV ). To collateralize its reinsurance obligations,
    MRV and the Holding Company entered into a
     30-year, 
    $2.9 billion letter of credit facility with an unaffiliated
    financial institution. 

(7)  

In September 2008, MRV and the Holding Company entered into a
     30-year, 
    $3.5 billion letter of credit facility with an unaffiliated
    financial institution. These letters of credit serve as
    collateral for MRV s obligations under a reinsurance
    agreement. 

Letters of Credit.   At December 31, 2008,
    the Holding Company had outstanding $2.8 billion in letters
    of credit, substantially all of which are associated with the
    aforementioned credit facilities, from various financial
    institutions, of which $500 million and $2.3 billion
    were part of committed and credit facilities, respectively. As
    commitments associated with letters of credit and financing
    arrangements may expire unused, these amounts do not necessarily
    reflect the Holding Company s actual future cash funding
    requirements.

5.    

Related
    Party Transactions  

Dividends   

The primary source of the Holding Company s liquidity is
    dividends it receives from its insurance subsidiaries. The
    Holding Company s insurance subsidiaries are subject to
    regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends imposed by
    the regulators of their respective domiciles. The dividend
    limitation for U.S. insurance subsidiaries is based on the
    surplus to policyholders as of the immediately preceding
    calendar year and statutory net gain from operations for the
    immediately preceding calendar year. The maximum aggregate
    amount of dividends which the Holding Company subsidiaries may
    pay to the Holding Company in 2009 without insurance regulatory
    approval is $1,363 million.

Financing
    Arrangements Related to Subsidiaries   

As described more fully in Note 11 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements:

In December 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the
    collateral financing arrangement associated with MetLife
    Reinsurance Company of Charleston s ( MRC )
    reinsurance of the closed block liabilities, entered into an
    agreement with an unaffiliated financial institution under which
    the Holding Company is entitled to the interest paid by MRC on
    the surplus notes of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.55% in exchange for the payment of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 1.12%, payable quarterly. Under this agreement, the
    Holding Company may also be required to pledge collateral or
    make payments to the unaffiliated financial institution related
    to any decline in the estimated fair value of the surplus notes
    and in connection with any early termination of this agreement.
    During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Holding
    Company paid $800 million to the unaffiliated financial
    institution related to a decline in the estimated fair value of
    the surplus notes. This payment reduced the amount under the
    agreement on which the Holding Company s interest payment
    is due but did not reduce the outstanding amount of the surplus
    notes. In addition, the Holding Company had pledged collateral
    of $230 million to the unaffiliated financial institution
    at

F-174

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II 

Notes to
    the Condensed Financial
    Information   (Continued) 

(Parent
    Company Only)  

In May 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the
    collateral financing arrangement associated with MRSC
    reinsurance of universal life secondary guarantees, entered into
    an agreement with an unaffiliated financial institution under
    which the Holding Company is entitled to the return on the
    investment portfolio held by the trust established in connection
    with this collateral financing arrangement in exchange for the
    payment of a stated rate of return to the unaffiliated financial
    institution of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.70%, payable quarterly. The Holding Company may
    also be required to make payments to the unaffiliated financial
    institution, for deposit into the trust, related to any decline
    in the estimated fair value of the assets held by the trust, as
    well as amounts outstanding upon maturity or early termination
    of the collateral financing arrangement. As a result of this
    agreement, the Holding Company effectively assumed the
    $2.4 billion liability under the collateral financing
    arrangement along with a beneficial interest in the trust
    holding the associated assets. The Holding Company
    simultaneously contributed to MRSC its beneficial interest in
    the trust, along with any return to be received on the
    investment portfolio held by the trust. For the year ended
    December 31, 2008, the Holding Company paid
    $320 million to the unaffiliated financial institution as a
    result of the decline in the estimated fair value of the assets
    in the trust. All of the $320 million was deposited into
    the trust. In January 2009, the Holding Company paid an
    additional $360 million to the unaffiliated financial
    institution as a result of the continued decline in the
    estimated fair value of the assets in trust which was also
    deposited into the trust. In addition, the Holding Company may
    be required to pledge collateral to the unaffiliated financial
    institution under this agreement. At December 31, 2008, the
    Holding Company had pledged $86 million under the
    agreement. No collateral had been pledged under the agreement as
    December 31, 2007. Interest expense incurred by the Holding
    Company under the collateral financing arrangement for the years
    ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 was $107 million and
    $84 million, respectively. The allocation of these
    financing costs to MRSC is included in other revenues and
    recorded as an additional investment in MRSC.

Support
    Agreements   

In October 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with
    MRV s reinsurance of certain universal life and term life
    insurance risks, committed to the Vermont Department of Banking,
    Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration to take
    necessary action to cause each of the two initial protected
    cells of MRV to maintain total adjusted capital equal to or
    greater than 200% of such protected cell s authorized
    control level risk-based capital ( RBC ), as defined
    in state insurance statutes. This transaction is more fully
    described in Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

In December 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the
    collateral financing arrangement associated with MRC s
    reinsurance of a portion of the liabilities associated with the
    closed block, committed to the South Carolina Department of
    Insurance to make capital contributions, if necessary, to MRC so
    that MRC may at all times maintain its total adjusted capital at
    a level of not less than 200% of the company action
    level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes as in
    effect on the date of determination or December 31, 2007,
    whichever calculation produces the greater capital requirement,
    or as otherwise required by the South Carolina Department of
    Insurance. This collateral financing arrangement is more fully
    described in Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

In May 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the
    collateral financing arrangement associated with MRSC s
    reinsurance of universal life secondary guarantees, committed to
    the South Carolina Department of Insurance to take necessary
    action to cause MRSC to maintain total adjusted capital equal to
    the greater of $250,000

F-175

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II 

Notes to
    the Condensed Financial
    Information   (Continued) 

(Parent
    Company Only)  

or 100% of MRSC s authorized control level RBC, as
    defined in state insurance statutes. This collateral financing
    arrangement is more fully described in Note 11 of the Notes
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Holding Company has net worth maintenance agreements with
    two of its insurance subsidiaries, MetLife Investors Insurance
    Company and First MetLife Investors Insurance Company. Under
    these agreements, as subsequently amended, the Holding Company
    agreed, without limitation as to the amount, to cause each of
    these subsidiaries to have a minimum capital and surplus of
    $10 million, total adjusted capital at a level not less
    than 150% of the company action level RBC, as defined by
    state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it
    to meet its current obligations on a timely basis.

The Holding Company entered into a net worth maintenance
    agreement with Mitsui Sumitomo MetLife Insurance Company Limited
    ( MSMIC ), an investment in Japan of which the Holding
    Company owns 50% of the equity. Under the agreement, the Holding
    Company agreed, without limitation as to amount, to cause MSMIC
    to have the amount of capital and surplus necessary for MSMIC to
    maintain a solvency ratio of at least 400%, as calculated in
    accordance with the Insurance Business Law of Japan, and to make
    such loans to MSMIC as may be necessary to ensure that MSMIC has
    sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet its payment
    obligations as they fall due.

The Holding Company has guaranteed the obligations of its
    subsidiary, Exeter, under a reinsurance agreement with MSMIC
    under which Exeter reinsures variable annuities written by MSMIC.

Management anticipates that to the extent that these
    arrangements place significant demands upon the Holding Company,
    there will be sufficient liquidity and capital to enable the
    Holding Company to meet these demands.

Other   

See Note 3 for description of loans to subsidiaries.

See Note 4 for description of the Holding Company s
    debt with subsidiaries.

6.    

Fair
    Value  

Fair
    Value of Financial Instruments  

The Holding Company prospectively adopted the provisions of
    SFAS 157 effective January 1, 2008. As a result, the
    methodologies used to determine the estimated fair value for
    certain financial instruments at December 31, 2008 may
    have been modified from those utilized at December 31,
    2007, which, while being deemed appropriate under existing
    accounting guidance, may not have produced an exit value as
    defined in SFAS 157. Accordingly, the estimated fair value
    of financial instruments, and the description of the
    methodologies used to derive those estimated fair values, are
    presented separately at December 31, 2007 and
    December 31, 2008. Considerable judgment is often required
    in interpreting market data to develop estimates of fair value
    and the use of different assumptions or valuation methodologies
    may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.

F-176

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II 

Notes to
    the Condensed Financial
    Information   (Continued) 

(Parent
    Company Only)  

Amounts related to the Holding Company s financial
    instruments are as follows:

For a summary of the methods and assumptions used to estimate
    the fair value of financial instruments, including long-term
    debt-affiliated which is valued in the same manner as long-term
    debt-unaffiliated, see  Fair Value of Financial
    Instruments   2007  in Note 24 of the Notes
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-177

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II 

Notes to
    the Condensed Financial
    Information   (Continued) 

(Parent
    Company Only)  

(1)  

Carrying values presented herein differ from those presented in
    the condensed financial information because certain items within
    the respective balance sheet caption are not considered
    financial instruments. Balance sheet captions omitted from the
    table above are not considered financial instruments. 

(2)  

Commitment under collateral financing arrangement is an
    off-balance sheet liability and is not recognized in the
    condensed financial information. 

(3)  

Other invested assets is comprised of freestanding derivatives
    with positive estimated fair values. 

For a summary of the methods and assumptions used to estimate
    the fair value of financial instruments, including long-term
    debt-affiliated which is valued in the same manner as long-term
    debt-unaffiliated, see  Fair Value of Financial
    Instruments   2008  under Note 24 of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The methods and
    assumptions used to estimate the fair value of certain other
    financial instruments are summarized as follows:

Loans to and Receivables from Subsidiaries   
    The Holding Company lends funds, as necessary, to its
    subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their capital
    requirements. The estimated fair values are determined by
    discounting expected future cash flows using current market
    interest rates currently available for instruments with similar
    terms issued to companies of comparable credit quality of the
    respective subsidiaries.

F-178

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II 

Notes to
    the Condensed Financial
    Information   (Continued) 

(Parent
    Company Only)  

Commitment Under Collateral Financing
    Arrangement    The commitment under collateral
    financing arrangement is an off-balance sheet liability that
    represents the Holding Company s obligation to potentially
    make additional payments to the unaffiliated financial
    institution under the terms of the agreement entered into
    simultaneously with the issuance of surplus notes by MRC as
    discussed in Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements. The fair value of this commitment was
    estimated based on a valuation model similar to that used to
    value a credit default swap using inputs based on market data
    for issuers with credit ratings similar to MRC.

Assets
    and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value  

Recurring
    Fair Value Measurements   

The assets and liabilities measured at estimated fair value on a
    recurring basis are estimated as described in the preceding
    section. These estimated fair values and their corresponding
    fair value hierarchy are summarized as follows:

The Holding Company has categorized its assets and liabilities
    into the three-level fair value hierarchy, as defined in
    Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements, based upon the priority of the inputs to the
    respective valuation technique. Assets and liabilities
    recognized at the Holding Company are of the same types as those
    reported on a consolidated basis for MetLife, Inc. and are
    included within the fair value hierarchy in the same

F-179

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II 

Notes to
    the Condensed Financial
    Information   (Continued) 

(Parent
    Company Only)  

manner as described in  Assets and Liabilities Measured at
    Fair Value  under Note 24 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

A rollforward of the fair value measurements for all assets and
    liabilities measured at estimated fair value on a recurring
    basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs
    for year ended December 31, 2008 is as follows:

See  Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value 
    under Note 24 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for an explanation of the footnotes in the preceding
    table.

The Holding Company had realized and unrealized gains and losses
    recorded in earnings for the year ended December 31, 2008
    due to changes in estimated fair value recorded in net
    investment gains (losses) for Level 3 assets and
    liabilities of ($21) million and ($12) million for
    fixed maturity and equity securities respectively. The Holding
    Company had no unrealized gains and losses recorded in earnings
    for the year ended December 31, 2008 for Level 3
    assets and liabilities that were still held at December 31,
    2008.

7.    

Subsequent
    Events  

In February 2009, the Holding Company contributed a total of
    $74 million to two of its insurance subsidiaries.

On January 28, 2009, the Holding Company made a
    $360 million payment to the unaffiliated financial
    institution related to the collateral financing arrangement for
    MRSC. Under the terms of this arrangement, the Holding Company
    may be required to make payments to the unaffiliated financial
    institution, for deposit into the trust, related to any decline
    in the estimated fair value of the assets held by the trust.

F-180

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule III  

Consolidated
    Supplementary Insurance Information 
     December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 
    (In millions)  

(1)  

Amounts are included within the future policy benefits, other
    policyholder funds and policyholder dividend obligation column. 

F-181

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule III   (Continued)  

Consolidated Supplementary Insurance Information 
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 
    (In millions) 

(1)  

Includes other expenses and policyholder dividends, excluding
    amortization of DAC and VOBA charged to other expenses. 

F-182

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule IV  

Consolidated
    Reinsurance 
     December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 
    (In millions)  

F-183

Table of Contents   

Item 9.      

Changes
    in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure   

None.

Item 9A.      

Controls
    and Procedures   

Management, with the participation of the Chief Executive
    Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the
    effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company s
    disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Exchange Act
     Rule 13a-15(e) 
    as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on
    that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
    Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and
    procedures are effective.

There were no changes to the Company s internal control
    over financial reporting as defined in Exchange Act
     Rule 13a-15(f) 
    during the quarter ended December 31, 2008 that have
    materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
    affect, the Company s internal control over financial
    reporting.

Management s
    Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting   

Management of MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries is responsible for
    establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
    financial reporting. In fulfilling this responsibility,
    estimates and judgments by management are required to assess the
    expected benefits and related costs of control procedures. The
    objectives of internal control include providing management with
    reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that assets are
    safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use or disposition,
    and that transactions are executed in accordance with
    management s authorization and recorded properly to permit
    the preparation of consolidated financial statements in
    conformity with GAAP.

Financial management has documented and evaluated the
    effectiveness of the internal control of the Company at
    December 31, 2008 pertaining to financial reporting in
    accordance with the criteria established in  Internal
    Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

In the opinion of management, MetLife, Inc. maintained effective
    internal control over financial reporting at December 31,
    2008.

Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered
    public accounting firm, has audited the consolidated financial
    statements and consolidated financial statement schedules
    included in the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2008. The Report of the
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on their audit of
    the consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial
    statement schedules is included at
     page F-1. 

Attestation
    Report of the Company s Registered Public Accounting
    Firm   

The Company s independent registered public accounting
    firm, Deloitte   Touche LLP, has issued their
    attestation report on management s internal control over
    financial reporting which is set forth below.

248

Table of Contents   

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

MetLife, Inc.:

We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of
    MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of
    December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission. The Company s management is responsible for
    maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
    and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
    over financial reporting, included in the accompanying
    Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over
    Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
    on the Company s internal control over financial reporting
    based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
    considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
    audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed by, or under the supervision of, the
    company s principal executive and principal financial
    officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected
    by the company s board of directors, management, and other
    personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over
    financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or
    improper management override of controls, material misstatements
    due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a
    timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
    effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting
    to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may
    become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
    degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
    deteriorate.

In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material
    respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
    of December 31, 2008, based on the criteria established in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated financial statements and financial statement
    schedules as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008,
    of the Company, and our report dated February 26, 2009,
    expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial
    statements and financial statement schedules and included an
    explanatory paragraph regarding changes in the Company s
    method of accounting for certain assets and liabilities to a
    fair value measurement approach as required by accounting
    guidance adopted on January 1, 2008.

/s/   DELOITTE  
    TOUCHE LLP 

DELOITTE  
    TOUCHE LLP

New York, New York

February 26, 2009

249

Table of Contents   

Item 9B.      

Other
    Information   

On February 24, 2009, the Compensation Committee of the
    Board of Directors of MetLife, Inc. approved special
    compensation grants ( Special Grants ) to William J.
    Wheeler, the Company s Executive Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer and Steven A. Kandarian, the Company s
    Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer. The
    Special Grants were approved in recognition of the critical
    nature of their roles at the Company, these executives 
    sustained high performance, and to encourage them to continue to
    provide a high level of performance that will create value for
    Company shareholders. The grants were in addition to grants
    determined under the Company s general executive
    compensation practices. The Special Grants consisted of 130,000
    stock options and 64,000 performance shares for Mr. Wheeler
    and 120,000 stock options and 64,000 performance shares for
    Mr. Kandarian. The grants the Committee determined under
    the Company s general executive compensation practices
    included 65,000 stock options and 32,000 performance shares for
    Mr. Wheeler, and 60,000 stock options and 32,000
    performance shares for Mr. Kandarian. The Special Grant
    stock options will normally become exercisable on the third
    anniversary of their grant date, rather than at a rate of
    one-third on each of the first three anniversaries of their
    grant date as do the stock options determined under the
    Company s general executive compensation practices.

250

Table of Contents   

Part III  

Item 10.      

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

The information called for by this Item pertaining to Directors
    is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled
     Proposal One   Election of Directors, 
     Corporate Governance   Information About the
    Board of Directors,   Corporate Governance  
    Board Committees,   Corporate Governance
      Membership on Board Committees  and
     Security Ownership of Directors and Executive
    Officers   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
    Reporting Compliance  in MetLife, Inc. s definitive
    proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
    held on April 28, 2009, to be filed by MetLife, Inc. with
    the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
    ( SEC ) pursuant to Regulation 14A within
    120 days after the year ended December 31, 2008 (the
     2009 Proxy Statement ).

The information called for by this Item pertaining to Executive
    Officers appears in  Part I   Item 1.
    Business   Executive Officers of the Registrant 
    and  Security Ownership of Directors and Executive
    Officers   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
    Reporting Compliance  in the 2009 Proxy Statement.

The Company has adopted the MetLife Financial Management Code of
    Professional Conduct (the  Financial Management
    Code ), a  code of ethics  as defined under the
    rules of the SEC, that applies to the Holding Company s
    Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief
    Accounting Officer, Corporate Controller and all professionals
    in finance and finance-related departments. In addition, the
    Company has adopted the Directors  Code of Business Conduct
    and Ethics (the  Directors  Code ) which applies
    to all members of the Holding Company s Board of Directors,
    including the Chief Executive Officer, and the Employee Code of
    Business Conduct and Ethics (together with the Financial
    Management Code and the Directors  Code, collectively, the
     Ethics Codes ), which applies to all employees of the
    Company, including the Holding Company s Chief Executive
    Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer, and
    Corporate Controller. The Ethics Codes are available on the
    Company s website at
     http://www.metlife.com/corporategovernance. 
    The Company intends to satisfy its disclosure obligations under
    Item 5.05 of
     Form 8-K 
    by posting information about amendments to, or waivers from a
    provision of, the Ethics Codes that apply to the Holding
    Company s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer,
    Chief Accounting Officer, and Corporate Controller on the
    Company s website at the address given above.

Item 11.      

Executive
    Compensation   

The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the sections entitled  Corporate
    Governance   Board Committees,   Corporate
    Governance   Compensation of Non-Management
    Directors,   Compensation Committee Report, 
     Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Summary
    Compensation Table,   Grants of Plan-Based Awards in
    2008,   Outstanding Equity Awards at 2008 Fiscal-Year
    End,   Option Exercises and Stock Vested in
    2008,   Pension Benefits,   Nonqualified
    Deferred Compensation  and  Potential Payments Upon
    Termination or
     Change-in-Control  
    in the 2009 Proxy Statement.

Item 12.      

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters   

The information called for by this Item pertaining to ownership
    of the Holding Company s common stock is incorporated
    herein by reference to the sections entitled  Security
    Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers  and
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners  and
     Proposal Two   Reapproval of the MetLife,
    Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan  
    Equity Compensation Plan Information  in the 2009 Proxy
    Statement.

251

Table of Contents   

Item 13.      

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence   

The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the sections entitled  Corporate
    Governance   Procedures for Reviewing Related Person
    Transactions  and  Corporate Governance  
    Information About the Board of Directors  
    Responsibilities, Independence and Composition of the Board of
    Directors  in the 2009 Proxy Statement.

Item 14.      

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services   

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the section entitled
     Proposal Three   Ratification of
    Appointment of the Independent Auditor  in the 2009 Proxy
    Statement.

252

Table of Contents   

Part IV  

Item 15.      

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules   

The following documents are filed as part of this report:

1. Financial Statements

The financial statements are listed in the Index to Consolidated
    Financial Statements and Schedules on page 247.

2. Financial Statement Schedules

The financial statement schedules are listed in the Index to
    Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules on page 247.

3. Exhibits

The exhibits are listed in the Exhibit Index which begins
    on
     page E-1. 

253

Table of Contents   

Signatures  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

February 27, 2009

METLIFE, INC.

By 

/s/   C.
    Robert Henrikson 

Name:     C. Robert Henrikson

Title: 

Chairman of the Board, President 

and Chief Executive Officer 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

254

Table of Contents   

Signature 

Title 

Date 

/s/   William
    C. Steere, Jr. 

William
    C. Steere, Jr.

Director

February 27, 2009

/s/   Lulu
    C. Wang 

Lulu
    C. Wang

Director

February 27, 2009

/s/   C.
    Robert Henrikson 

C.
    Robert Henrikson

Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer
    (Principal Executive Officer)

February 27, 2009

/s/   William
    J. Wheeler 

William
    J. Wheeler

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal
    Financial Officer)

February 27, 2009

/s/   Joseph
    J. Prochaska, Jr. 

Joseph
    J. Prochaska, Jr.

Executive Vice President, Finance Operations and Chief
    Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)

February 27, 2009

255

Table of Contents   

Exhibit Index  

( Note Regarding Reliance on Statements in Our
    Contracts:   In reviewing the agreements included
    as exhibits to this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    please remember that they are included to provide you with
    information regarding their terms and are not intended to
    provide any other factual or disclosure information about
    MetLife, Inc., its subsidiaries or the other parties to the
    agreements. The agreements contain representations and
    warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement.
    These representations and warranties have been made solely for
    the benefit of the other parties to the applicable agreement and
    (i) should not in all instances be treated as categorical
    statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk
    to one of the parties if those statements prove to be
    inaccurate; (ii) have been qualified by disclosures that
    were made to the other party in connection with the negotiation
    of the applicable agreement, which disclosures are not
    necessarily reflected in the agreement; (iii) may apply
    standards of materiality in a way that is different from what
    may be viewed as material to investors; and (iv) were made
    only as of the date of the applicable agreement or such other
    date or dates as may be specified in the agreement and are
    subject to more recent developments. Accordingly, these
    representations and warranties may not describe the actual state
    of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time.
    Additional information about MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries
    may be found elsewhere in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and MetLife, Inc. s other public filings, which are
    available without charge through the SEC s website at
    www.sec.gov.) 

Exhibit 

No. 

Description 

2

.1

Plan of Reorganization (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 2.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Registration Statement
    on
     Form S-1 
     (No. 333-91517) 
    (the
      S-1 
    Registration Statement )).

2

.2

Amendment to Plan of Reorganization dated as of March 9,
    2000 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the
     S-1 
    Registration Statement).

2

.3

Acquisition Agreement between MetLife, Inc. and Citigroup Inc.,
    dated as of January 31, 2005 (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 2.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated February 4, 2005).

3

.1

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of MetLife,
    Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to MetLife,
    Inc. s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 (the  2006
    Annual Report )).

3

.2

Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of
    Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of MetLife,
    Inc., filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on
    April 7, 2000 (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 3.2 to the 2006 Annual Report).

3

.3

Certificate of Designations of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative
    Preferred Stock, Series A, of MetLife, Inc., filed with the
    Secretary of State of Delaware on June 10, 2005
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.5 to MetLife,
    Inc. s Registration Statement on
     Form 8-A 
    filed on June 10, 2005).

3

.4

Certificate of Designations of 6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred
    Stock, Series B, of MetLife, Inc., filed with the Secretary
    of State of Delaware on June 14, 2005 (Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 99.5 to MetLife, Inc. s
    Registration Statement on
     Form 8-A 
    filed on June 15, 2005).

3

.5

MetLife, Inc. Amended and Restated By-Laws effective
    June 19, 2007 (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 3.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated June 25, 2007 (the  June 2007
     Form 8-K )). 

4

.1(a)

Indenture dated as of November 9, 2001 between MetLife,
    Inc. and Bank One Trust Company, N.A. (predecessor to The
    Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.) relating to Senior
    Debt Securities (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.1(a) to the 2006 Annual Report).

4

.1(b)

Form of Indenture for Senior Debt Securities between MetLife,
    Inc. and one or more banking institutions to be qualified as
    Trustee pursuant to Section 305(b)(2) of the
    Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (Included in
    Exhibit 4.1(a) incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.1(a) to the 2006 Annual Report, except for the
    name of the trustee).

E-1

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

No. 

Description 

4

.2

Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 27, 2001
    between MetLife, Inc. and Bank One Trust Company, N.A.
    (predecessor to The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.)
    relating to the 6.125% Senior Notes due December 1,
    2011 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the 2006
    Annual Report).

4

.3

Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 10, 2002
    between MetLife, Inc. and Bank One Trust Company, N.A.
    (predecessor to The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.)
    relating to the 5.375% Senior Notes due December 15,
    2012 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to MetLife,
    Inc. s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 (the  2007
    Annual Report ).

4

.4

Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 10, 2002
    between MetLife, Inc. and Bank One Trust Company, N.A.
    (predecessor to The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.)
    relating to the 6.50% Senior Notes due December 15,
    2032 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the 2007
    Annual Report).

4

.5

Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 21, 2003
    between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
    National Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York
    Trust Company, N.A.) relating to the 5.875% Senior
    Notes due November 21, 2033.

4

.6

Sixth Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 24, 2003
    between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
    National Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York
    Trust Company, N.A.) relating to the 5.00% Senior
    Notes due November 24, 2013.

4

.7

Seventh Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 3, 2004
    between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
    National Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York
    Trust Company, N.A.), as trustee, relating to the
    5.50% Senior Notes due June 15, 2014 (Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 4.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current
    Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated June 3, 2004 (the  June 2004
     Form 8-K )). 

4

.8

Eighth Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 3, 2004
    between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
    National Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York
    Trust Company, N.A.), as trustee, relating to the
    6.375% Senior Notes due June 15, 2034 (Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the June 2004
     Form 8-K). 

4

.9

Ninth Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 23, 2004
    between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
    National Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York
    Trust Company, N.A.), as trustee, relating to the
    5.50% Senior Notes due June 15, 2014 (Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 4.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current
    Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated July 23, 2004 (the  July 2004
     Form 8-K )). 

4

.10

Tenth Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 23, 2004
    between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
    National Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York
    Trust Company, N.A.), as trustee, relating to the
    6.375% Senior Notes due June 15, 2034 (Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the July 2004
     Form 8-K). 

4

.11

Eleventh Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 9,
    2004 between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan
    Trust Company, National Association (predecessor to The
    Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.), as trustee, relating
    to the 5.375% Senior Notes due December 9, 2024
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to MetLife,
    Inc. s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated December 9, 2004 (the  December 2004
     Form 8-K )). 

4

.12

Twelfth Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 23, 2005
    between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
    National Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York
    Trust Company, N.A.), as trustee, relating to the
    5.00% Senior Notes due June 15, 2015 (Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 4.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current
    Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated June 23, 2005 (the  June 23, 2005
     Form 8-K )). 

4

.13

Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 23, 2005
    between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
    National Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York
    Trust Company, N.A.), as trustee, relating to the
    5.70% Senior Notes due June 15, 2035 (Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the June 23, 2005
     Form 8-K). 

E-2

Table of Contents   

E-3

Table of Contents   

E-4

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

No. 

Description 

4

.48

Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust VI
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.9 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement).

4

.49

Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust VII
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.10 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement).

4

.50

Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust VIII
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.11 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement).

4

.51

Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust IX
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.12 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement).

4

.52

Form of Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust (substantially
    identical, except for names and dates, for MetLife Capital
    Trust V, MetLife Capital Trust VI, MetLife Capital
    Trust VII, MetLife Capital Trust VIII and MetLife
    Capital Trust IX) (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.13 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement).

4

.53

Form of Trust Preferred Security Certificate (substantially
    identical, except for names and dates, for MetLife Capital
    Trust V, MetLife Capital Trust VI, MetLife Capital
    Trust VII, MetLife Capital Trust VIII and MetLife
    Capital Trust IX) (Included in Exhibit 4.53
    incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.13 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement).

4

.54

Guarantee Agreement dated June 21, 2005 by and between
    MetLife, Inc., as Guarantor, and J.P. Morgan
    Trust Company, National Association (predecessor to The
    Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.), as Guarantee
    Trustee, relating to MetLife Capital Trust III
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.19 to the
    June 22, 2005
     Form 8-K). 

4

.55

Form of Trust Preferred Securities Guarantee Agreement
    (substantially identical, except for names and dates, for
    MetLife Capital Trust V, MetLife Capital Trust VI,
    MetLife Capital Trust VII, MetLife Capital Trust VIII
    and MetLife Capital Trust IX) (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.15 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement).

4

.56

Form of Common Securities Guarantee Agreement (substantially
    identical, except for names and dates, for MetLife Capital
    Trust V, MetLife Capital Trust VI, MetLife Capital
    Trust VII, MetLife Capital Trust VIII and MetLife
    Capital Trust IX) (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.16 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement).

4

.57

Removal and Appointment of Trustees of MetLife Capital
    Trust III (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.10
    to the 2004
     S-3 
    Registration Statement).

4

.58

Form of Certificate for Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
     S-1 
    Registration Statement).

4

.59

Rights Agreement dated as of April 4, 2000 between MetLife,
    Inc. and ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, L.L.C. (predecessor
    to Mellon Investor Services LLC) (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.48 to the 2006 Annual Report).

4

.60

Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of
    Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of MetLife,
    Inc., filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on
    April 7, 2000 (See Exhibit 3.2 above).

4

.61

Form of Right Certificate (Included as Exhibit B of
    Exhibit 4.59 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.48
    to the 2006 Annual Report).

4

.62

Form of Warrant Agreement (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.21 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)**.

4

.63

Form of Deposit Agreement (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.22 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)**.

4

.64

Form of Depositary Receipt (Included in Exhibit 4.63)**.

4

.65

Form of Purchase Contract Agreement (Incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 4.24 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)**.

4

.66

Form of Pledge Agreement (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.25 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)**.

E-5

Table of Contents   

E-6

Table of Contents   

E-7

Table of Contents   

E-8

Table of Contents   

E-9

Table of Contents   

E-10

Table of Contents   

*  

Indicates management contracts or compensatory plans or
    arrangements. 

**  

Indicates document to be filed as an exhibit to a Current Report
    on
     Form 8-K 
    or Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    pursuant to Item 601 of
     Regulation S-K 
    and incorporated herein by reference. 

E-11

<EX-4.5>
 2
 y74655exv4w5.txt
 EX-4.5: FIFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE

EXHIBIT 4.5

                                 METLIFE, INC.,
                                     ISSUER

                                       AND

                J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                 (AS SUCCESSOR TO BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.)
                                     TRUSTEE

                               ------------------

                          FIFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE

                          DATED AS OF NOVEMBER 21, 2003

                               ------------------

                                  $200,000,000

                               5.875% SENIOR NOTES

                              DUE NOVEMBER 21, 2033

TABLE OF CONTENTS(1)

                                    ARTICLE I

                    5.875% SENIOR NOTES DUE NOVEMBER 21, 2033

- -------------------------
(1) This Table of Contents does not constitute part of the Fifth Supplemental
Indenture and shall not have any bearing upon the interpretation of any of its
terms or provisions.

                                       2

THIS FIFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE is made as of the 21st day of
November, 2003, by and between METLIFE, INC., a Delaware corporation (the
"Company"), and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (as successor to
Bank One Trust Company, N.A.), a national banking corporation, as trustee (the
"Trustee"):

         WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore entered into an Indenture, dated as
of November 9, 2001 (the "Original Indenture") with the Trustee;

         WHEREAS, the Original Indenture is incorporated herein by this
reference and the Original Indenture, as supplemented by this Fifth Supplemental
Indenture, is herein called the "Indenture";

         WHEREAS, under the Original Indenture, a new series of senior notes may
at any time be established by the Board of Directors of the Company in
accordance with the provisions of the Original Indenture and the terms of such
series may be described by a supplemental indenture executed by the Company and
the Trustee;

         WHEREAS, the Company proposes to create under the Indenture a new
series of senior notes;

         WHEREAS, additional senior notes of other series hereafter established,
except as may be limited in the Original Indenture as at the time supplemented
and modified, may be issued from time to time pursuant to the Indenture as at
the time supplemented and modified; and

         WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Fifth Supplemental Indenture
a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.

         NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set
forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of
which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                    ARTICLE I

                    5.875% SENIOR NOTES DUE NOVEMBER 21, 2033

SECTION 1.01. Establishment.

         There is hereby established a new series of senior notes to be issued
under the Indenture, to be designated as the Company's 5.875% Senior Notes due
November 21, 2033 (the "2033 Senior Notes").

         There are to be authenticated and delivered 2033 Senior Notes,
initially limited in aggregate principal amount of $200,000,000 (or up to
$230,000,000 aggregate principal amount to the extent the Underwriters'
overallotment option pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement and the Pricing
Agreement is exercised), and no further 2033 Senior Notes shall be authenticated
and delivered except as provided by Section 2.05, 2.07, 2.11, 3.03 or 9.04

                                       3

of the Original Indenture; provided, however, that the aggregate principal
amount of the 2033 Senior Notes may be increased in the future, without the
consent of the holders of the 2033 Senior Notes, on the same terms and with the
same CUSIP number as the 2033 Senior Notes. The 2033 Senior Notes shall be
issued in fully registered form.

         The 2033 Senior Notes shall be issued in the form of one or more Global
Securities in substantially the form set out in Exhibit A hereto. The Depositary
with respect to the 2033 Senior Notes shall be The Depository Trust Company.

         The form of the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication for the 2033
Senior Notes shall be substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit B hereto.

         Each 2033 Senior Note shall be dated the date of authentication thereof
and shall bear interest from the date of original issuance thereof or from the
most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly
provided for.

SECTION 1.02. Definitions.

         The following defined terms used herein shall, unless the context
otherwise requires, have the meanings specified below. Capitalized terms used
herein for which no definition is provided herein shall have the meanings set
forth in the Original Indenture.

         "Interest Payment Date" means March 31, June 30, September 30 and
December 31 of each year, commencing December 31, 2003.

         "Pricing Agreement" means the Pricing Agreement, dated as of November
18, 2003, between Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as
representative of the Underwriters, and the Company.

         "Original Issue Date" means November 21, 2003.

         "Regular Record Date" means, with respect to each Interest Payment
Date, the close of business on the preceding March 15, June 15, September 15 or
December 15, as the case may be.

         "Stated Maturity" means November 21, 2033.

         "Underwriters" means Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated, A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., UBS
Securities LLC, Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, Banc of America Securities LLC,
Credit Suisse First Boston LLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., J.P. Morgan
Securities Inc., Banc One Capital Markets, Inc., Blaylock & Partners, L.P., HSBC
Securities (USA) Inc., J.J.B. Hilliard, W.L. Lyons, Inc., Lehman Brothers Inc.,
Quick & Reilly, Inc., RBC Dain Rauscher Inc., Raymond James & Associates, Inc.,
U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray Inc., and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC.

                                       4

"Underwriting Agreement" means the Underwriting Agreement, dated as of
November 18, 2003, between Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated,
as representative of the Underwriters, and the Company.

SECTION 1.03. Payment of Principal and Interest.

         The principal of the 2033 Senior Notes shall be due at Stated Maturity.
The unpaid principal amount of the 2033 Senior Notes shall bear interest at the
rate of 5.875% per year until paid or duly provided for. Interest shall be paid
quarterly in arrears on each Interest Payment Date, commencing December 31,
2003, to the Person in whose name the 2033 Senior Notes are registered on the
Regular Record Date for such Interest Payment Date, provided that interest
payable at the Stated Maturity of principal will be paid to the Person to whom
principal is payable. Any such interest that is not so punctually paid or duly
provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the holders on such Regular
Record Date and may be paid as provided in Section 2.03 of the Original
Indenture.

         Payments of interest on the 2033 Senior Notes will include interest
accrued to but excluding the respective Interest Payment Dates. Interest
payments for the 2033 Senior Notes shall be computed and paid on the basis of a
360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. In the event that any date on
which interest is payable on the 2033 Senior Notes is not a Business Day, then a
payment of the interest payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding
day that is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect
of any such delay), except that, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding
calendar year, such payment shall be made on the immediately preceding Business
Day, in each case with the same force and effect as if made on the date the
payment was originally payable.

         Payment of the principal and interest due at the Stated Maturity of the
2033 Senior Notes shall be made upon surrender of the 2033 Senior Notes at the
Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee. The principal of and interest on the 2033
Senior Notes shall be paid in such coin or currency of the United States of
America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and
private debts. Payments of interest (including interest on any Interest Payment
Date) will be made, subject to such surrender where applicable, at the option of
the Company, (i) by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto
as such address shall appear in the Security Register or (ii) by wire transfer
at such place and to such account at a banking institution in the United States
as may be designated in writing to the Trustee at least 15 days prior to the
date for payment by the Person entitled thereto.

SECTION 1.04. Denominations.

         The 2033 Senior Notes may be issued in denominations of $25, or any
integral multiple thereof.

                                       5

SECTION 1.05. Global Securities.

         The 2033 Senior Notes will be issued in the form of one or more Global
Securities registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee. Except under
the limited circumstances described below, 2033 Senior Notes represented by
Global Securities will not be exchangeable for, and will not otherwise be
issuable as, 2033 Senior Notes in definitive form. The Global Securities
described above may not be transferred except by the Depositary to a nominee of
the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another
nominee of the Depositary or to a successor Depositary or its nominee.

         Owners of beneficial interests in such Global Securities will not be
considered the holders thereof for any purpose under the Indenture, and no
Global Security representing a 2033 Senior Note shall be exchangeable, except
for another Global Security of like denomination and tenor to be registered in
the name of the Depositary or its nominee or to a successor Depositary or its
nominee. The rights of holders of such Global Securities shall be exercised only
through the Depositary.

         A Global Security shall be exchangeable for 2033 Senior Notes
registered in the names of Persons other than the Depositary or its nominee only
as provided by Section 2.11(c) of the Original Indenture. Any Global Security
that is exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be exchangeable
for 2033 Senior Notes registered in such names as the Depositary shall direct.

SECTION 1.06. Transfer.

         No service charge will be made for any registration of transfer or
exchange of 2033 Senior Notes, but payment will be required of a sum sufficient
to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection
therewith.

SECTION 1.07. Defeasance.

         The provisions of Sections 13.02 and 13.03 of the Original Indenture
will apply to the 2033 Senior Notes.

SECTION 1.08. Redemption at the Option of the Company.

         The 2033 Senior Notes will be redeemable, at the option of the Company,
in whole at any time or in part from time to time, on or after November 21, 2008
at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2033 Senior
Notes to be redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest on the 2033 Senior Notes
to be redeemed to, but excluding, the date of redemption.

         Notwithstanding Section 3.02 of the Original Indenture, the notice of
redemption with respect to the foregoing redemption need not set forth the
Redemption Price but only the manner of calculation thereof.

                                       6

The Company shall notify the Trustee of the Redemption Price with
respect to the foregoing redemption promptly after the calculation thereof. The
Trustee shall not be responsible for calculating said Redemption Price.

         If less than all of the 2033 Senior Notes are to be redeemed, the
Trustee shall select the 2033 Senior Notes or portions of the 2033 Senior Notes
to be redeemed by such method as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate. The
Trustee may select for redemption 2033 Senior Notes and portions of 2033 Senior
Notes in amounts of $25 and whole multiples of $25.

                                   ARTICLE II

                            MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SECTION 2.01. Recitals by the Company.

         The recitals in this Fifth Supplemental Indenture are made by the
Company only and not by the Trustee, and all of the provisions contained in the
Original Indenture in respect of the rights, privileges, immunities, powers and
duties of the Trustee shall be applicable in respect of the 2033 Senior Notes
and of this Fifth Supplemental Indenture as fully and with like effect as if set
forth herein in full.

SECTION 2.02. Ratification and Incorporation of Original Indenture.

         As supplemented hereby, the Original Indenture is in all respects
ratified and confirmed, and the Original Indenture and this Fifth Supplemental
Indenture shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.

SECTION 2.03. Executed in Counterparts.

         This Fifth Supplemental Indenture may be simultaneously executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, and such
counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.

                                       7

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each party hereto has caused this instrument to be
signed in its name and behalf by its duly authorized officers, all as of the day
and year first above written.

                                    METLIFE, INC.

                                    By: /s/ Anthony J. Williamson
                                        ---------------------------
                                        Name: Anthony J. Williamson
                                        Title: Senior Vice President and
                                        Treasurer

                                    J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                    NATIONAL ASSOCIATION

                                    By: /s/ Mary Fonti
                                        ---------------------------
                                        Name: Mary Fonti
                                        Title: Authorized Officer

                                       8

EXHIBIT A

                FORM OF 5.875% SENIOR NOTE DUE NOVEMBER 21, 2033

         THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE ORIGINAL
INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY ("DTC"), A NEW YORK
CORPORATION, TO METLIFE, INC. OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER,
EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF
CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE
OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS
REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER
USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS
THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.

         EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN SECTION 2.11 OF THE ORIGINAL INDENTURE,
THIS NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, ONLY TO ANOTHER NOMINEE
OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR TO A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR
DEPOSITARY.

                                      A-1

No. ____                                                     CUSIP No. 59156R405

                                  METLIFE, INC.
                               5.875% Senior Note
                              Due November 21, 2033

Principal Amount:                   $200,000,000

Regular Record Date:                with respect to each Interest Payment Date,
                                    the close of business on the preceding March
                                    15, June 15, September 15 or December 15, as
                                    the case may be

Original Issue Date:                November 21, 2003

Stated Maturity:                    November 21, 2033

Interest Payment Dates:             March 31, June 30, September 30, and
                                    December 31, commencing December 31, 2003

Interest Rate:                      5.875% per year

Authorized Denomination:            $25

         MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company," which term
includes any successor corporation under the Indenture referred to on the
reverse hereof), for value received, hereby promises to pay to ________, or
registered assigns, the principal sum of __________________________
($___________) on the Stated Maturity shown above, and to pay interest thereon
from the Original Issue Date shown above, or from the most recent Interest
Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, quarterly in
arrears on each Interest Payment Date as specified above, commencing on December
31, 2003, and on the Stated Maturity at the rate per year shown above until the
principal hereof is paid or made available for payment and on any overdue
principal and on any overdue installment of interest to the extent permitted by
law. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any
Interest Payment Date (other than an Interest Payment Date that is the Stated
Maturity) will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose
name this Note is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date
as specified above next preceding such Interest Payment Date, provided that any
interest payable at Stated Maturity will be paid to the Person to whom principal
is payable. Any such interest that is not so punctually paid or duly provided
for will forthwith cease to be payable to the holders on such Regular Record
Date and may be paid as provided in Section 2.03 of the Original Indenture.

         Payments of interest on this Note will include interest accrued to but
excluding the respective Interest Payment Dates. Interest payments for this Note
shall be computed and

                                      A-2

paid on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. In the
event that any date on which interest is payable on this Note is not a Business
Day, then payment of the interest payable on such date will be made on the next
succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment
in respect of any such delay), except that, if such Business Day is in the next
succeeding calendar year, payment shall be made on the immediately preceding
Business Day, in each case with the same force and effect as if made on the date
the payment was originally payable.

         Payment of the principal of and interest due at the Stated Maturity of
this Note shall be made upon surrender of this Note at the Corporate Trust
Office of the Trustee. The principal of and interest on this Note shall be paid
in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of
payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. Payment of
interest (including interest on an Interest Payment Date) will be made, subject
to such surrender where applicable, at the option of the Company, (i) by check
mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall
appear in the Security Register or (ii) by wire transfer at such place and to
such account at a banking institution in the United States as may be designated
in writing to the Trustee at least 15 days prior to the date for payment by the
Person entitled thereto.

         The Senior Notes (as defined on the reverse hereof) will be unsecured
obligations of the Company and will rank equally in right of payment with all of
the other unsecured, unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company from time to
time outstanding. The Senior Notes will rank senior to any subordinated
indebtedness of the Company.

         REFERENCE IS HEREBY MADE TO THE FURTHER PROVISIONS OF THIS NOTE SET
FORTH ON THE REVERSE HEREOF, WHICH FURTHER PROVISIONS SHALL FOR ALL PURPOSES
HAVE THE SAME EFFECT AS IF SET FORTH AT THIS PLACE.

         Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by
the Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit
under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

                                      A-3

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly
executed under its corporate seal.

                                      METLIFE, INC.

                                      By:  ____________________
                                           Name:
                                           Title:

Attest:

______________________
Name:
Title:

                             [Seal of MetLife, Inc.]

                          CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

         This is one of the 5.875% Senior Notes due November 21, 2033 referred
to in the within-mentioned Indenture.

                                      J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                      NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                                      as Trustee

                                      By: _________________________
                                          Authorized Officer

                                      A-4

(Reverse Side of Note)

         This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of senior notes of the
Company issued and issuable in one or more series under an Indenture dated as of
November 9, 2001 (the "Original Indenture"), as supplemented by the Fifth
Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 21, 2003 (the "Fifth Supplemental
Indenture," and together with the Original Indenture, the "Indenture"), between
the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (as successor to
Bank One Trust Company, N.A.), as trustee (the "Trustee," which term includes
any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all
indentures incidental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the
respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of
the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the Senior Notes issued thereunder
and of the terms upon which said Senior Notes are, and are to be, authenticated
and delivered. This Senior Note is one of the series designated on the face
hereof as 5.875% Senior Notes due November 21, 2033 (the "Senior Notes"),
initially limited in aggregate principal amount of $200,000,000 (or up to
$230,000,000 aggregate principal amount to the extent the Underwriters'
overallotment option pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement and the Pricing
Agreement is exercised); provided, however, that the aggregate principal amount
of the Senior Notes may be increased in the future, without the consent of the
holders of the Senior Notes, on the same terms and with the same CUSIP number as
the Senior Notes. Capitalized terms used herein for which no definition is
provided herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Indenture.

         This Note is exchangeable in whole or from time to time in part for
Senior Notes of this series in definitive registered form only as provided
herein and in the Indenture. If (i) at any time the Depositary notifies the
Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for this Note
or if at any time the Depositary shall no longer be registered or in good
standing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or other
applicable statute or regulation, and the Company does not appoint a successor
Depositary within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes
aware of such condition, as the case may be, or (ii) the Company in its sole
discretion determines that this Note shall be exchangeable for Senior Notes of
this series in definitive registered form and executes and delivers to the
Security Registrar a written order of the Company providing that this Note shall
be so exchangeable, this Note shall be exchangeable for Senior Notes of this
series in definitive registered form, provided that the definitive Senior Notes
so issued in exchange for this Note shall be in denominations of $25 and any
integral multiples, without coupons, and be of like aggregate principal amount
and tenor as the portion of this Note to be exchanged. Except as provided above,
owners of beneficial interests in this Note will not be entitled to have Senior
Notes registered in their names, will not receive or be entitled to physical
delivery of Senior Notes in definitive registered form and will not be
considered the holders thereof for any purpose under the Indenture. Neither the
Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent nor the Security Registrar shall have any
responsibility or liability for any aspect of records relating to or payments
made on account of beneficial ownership interests in this Note, or for
maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial
ownership interests.

                                      A-5

If an Event of Default with respect to the Senior Notes shall occur and
be continuing, the principal of the Senior Notes may be declared due and payable
in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the
Indenture.

         The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the
amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the
Company and the rights of the holders of the Senior Notes under the Indenture at
any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the holders of not
less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes at the
time Outstanding. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the holders
of specified percentages in principal amount of the Senior Notes at the time
Outstanding, on behalf of the holders of all Senior Notes, to waive compliance
by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past
defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver
by the holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and
upon all future holders of this Note and of any Senior Note issued upon the
registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether
or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.

         The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the
entire indebtedness of the Company pursuant to this Note and (b) restrictive
covenants and the related Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with
certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Note.

         The Senior Notes will be redeemable, at the option of the Company, in
whole at any time or in part from time to time, on or after November 21, 2008 at
a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes to
be redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest on the Senior Notes to be redeemed
to, but excluding, the date of redemption.

         Notwithstanding Section 3.02 of the Original Indenture, the notice of
redemption with respect to the foregoing redemption need not set forth the
Redemption Price but only the manner of calculation thereof.

         The Company shall notify the Trustee of the Redemption Price with
respect to the foregoing redemption promptly after the calculation thereof. The
Trustee shall not be responsible for calculating said Redemption Price.

         If less than all of the Senior Notes are to be redeemed, the Trustee
shall select the Senior Notes or portions of the Senior Notes to be redeemed by
such method as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate. The Trustee may select
for redemption Senior Notes and portions of Senior Notes in amounts of $25 and
whole multiples of $25.

         No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or
of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is
absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at
the time, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.

                                      A-6

As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein
set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security Register,
upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency
of the Company for such purpose, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written
instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company or the Security
Registrar and duly executed by, the holder hereof or his attorney duly
authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Senior Notes, of authorized
denominations and of like tenor and for the same aggregate principal amount,
will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. No service charge
shall be made for any such exchange or registration of transfer, but the Company
will require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental
charge payable in connection therewith.

         Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the
Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent and the Security Registrar of the Company
or the Trustee may deem and treat the Person in whose name this Note is
registered as the absolute owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this
Note be overdue and notwithstanding any notice of ownership or writing thereon
made by anyone other than the Security Registrar, and neither the Company nor
the Trustee nor any Paying Agent nor the Security Registrar shall be affected by
notice to the contrary.

         The Senior Notes are issuable only in registered form without coupons
in denominations of $25 and any integral multiple thereof. As provided in the
Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Senior Notes are
exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes of a
different authorized denomination, as requested by the holder surrendering the
same upon surrender of the Senior Note or Senior Notes to be exchanged at the
office or agency of the Company.

         No recourse shall be had for payment of the principal of or interest on
this Note, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect hereof, or
based on or in respect of the Indenture, against any incorporator, stockholder,
officer or director, past, present or future, as such, of the Company or of any
predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution,
statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or
otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the
consideration for the issuance hereof, expressly waived and released.

         Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by
the Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit
under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

         This Note shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the
internal laws of the state of New York.

                                      A-7

ABBREVIATIONS

         The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face
of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full
according to applicable laws or regulations:

TEN COM - as tenants in common         UNIF GIFT MIN ACT - Custodian under
                                       Uniform Gift to Minors Act

                                       __________________________
                                       (State)

TEN ENT - as tenants by the entireties

JT TEN - as joint tenants with right of
         survivorship and not as
         tenants in common

                    Additional abbreviations may also be used
                          though not on the above list.

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s) and transfer(s) unto

PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS, INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF
ASSIGNEE

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________
(please insert Social Security or other identifying number of assignee)

the within Note and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and
appointing

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________

agent to transfer said Note on the books of the Company, with full power of
substitution in the premises.

Dated:   ______________               _____________________________

                                      _____________________________
                                      NOTICE: The signature to this
                                      assignment must correspond with the
                                      name as written upon the face of
                                      the within instrument in every
                                      particular without alteration
                                      or enlargement, or any change
                                      whatever.

                                      A-8

EXHIBIT B

                          CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

         This is one of the 5.875% Senior Notes due November 21, 2033 referred
to in the within-mentioned Indenture.

                                         J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                         NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                                         as Trustee

                                         By: ___________________________
                                             Authorized Officer

                                       B-1

</EX-4.5>

<EX-4.6>
 3
 y74655exv4w6.txt
 EX-4.6: SIXTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE

Exhibit 4.6

                                 METLIFE, INC.,
                                     ISSUER

                                       AND

                J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                 (AS SUCCESSOR TO BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.)
                                     TRUSTEE

                               ------------------

                          SIXTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE

                          DATED AS OF NOVEMBER 24, 2003

                               ------------------

                                  $500,000,000

                               5.00% SENIOR NOTES

                              DUE NOVEMBER 24, 2013

TABLE OF CONTENTS(1)

                                   ARTICLE I

                    5.00% SENIOR NOTES DUE NOVEMBER 24, 2013

- ----------------------------
(1) This Table of Contents does not constitute part of the Sixth Supplemental
Indenture and shall not have any bearing upon the interpretation of any of its
terms or provisions.

                                       2

THIS SIXTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE is made as of the 24th day of
November, 2003, by and between METLIFE, INC., a Delaware corporation (the
"Company"), and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (as successor to
Bank One Trust Company, N.A.), a national banking corporation, as trustee (the
"Trustee"):

         WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore entered into an Indenture, dated as
of November 9, 2001 (the "Original Indenture") with the Trustee;

         WHEREAS, the Original Indenture is incorporated herein by this
reference and the Original Indenture, as supplemented by this Sixth Supplemental
Indenture, is herein called the "Indenture";

         WHEREAS, under the Original Indenture, a new series of senior notes may
at any time be established by the Board of Directors of the Company in
accordance with the provisions of the Original Indenture and the terms of such
series may be described by a supplemental indenture executed by the Company and
the Trustee;

         WHEREAS, the Company proposes to create under the Indenture a new
series of senior notes;

         WHEREAS, additional senior notes of other series hereafter established,
except as may be limited in the Original Indenture as at the time supplemented
and modified, may be issued from time to time pursuant to the Indenture as at
the time supplemented and modified; and

         WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Sixth Supplemental Indenture
a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.

         NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set
forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of
which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                    ARTICLE I

                    5.00% SENIOR NOTES DUE NOVEMBER 24, 2013

SECTION 1.01. Establishment.

         There is hereby established a new series of senior notes to be issued
under the Indenture, to be designated as the Company's 5.00% Senior Notes due
November 24, 2013 (the "2013 Senior Notes").

         There are to be authenticated and delivered 2013 Senior Notes,
initially limited in aggregate principal amount of $500,000,000, and no further
2013 Senior Notes shall be authenticated and delivered except as provided by
Section 2.05, 2.07, 2.11, 3.03 or 9.04 of the Original Indenture; provided,
however, that the aggregate principal amount of the 2013 Senior Notes may be
increased in the future, without the consent of the holders of the 2013

                                       3

Senior Notes, on the same terms and with the same CUSIP and ISIN numbers as the
2013 Senior Notes. The 2013 Senior Notes shall be issued in fully registered
form.

         The 2013 Senior Notes shall be issued in the form of one or more Global
Securities in substantially the form set out in Exhibit A hereto. The Depositary
with respect to the 2013 Senior Notes shall be The Depository Trust Company.

         The form of the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication for the 2013
Senior Notes shall be substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit B hereto.

         Each 2013 Senior Note shall be dated the date of authentication thereof
and shall bear interest from the date of original issuance thereof or from the
most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly
provided for.

SECTION 1.02. Definitions.

         The following defined terms used herein shall, unless the context
otherwise requires, have the meanings specified below. Capitalized terms used
herein for which no definition is provided herein shall have the meanings set
forth in the Original Indenture.

         "Interest Payment Date" means May 24 and November 24 of each year,
commencing May 24, 2004.

         "Original Issue Date" means November 24, 2003.

         "Regular Record Date" means, with respect to each Interest Payment
Date, the close of business on the preceding May 9 or November 9, as the case
may be.

         "Stated Maturity" means November 24, 2013.

SECTION 1.03. Payment of Principal and Interest.

         The principal of the 2013 Senior Notes shall be due at Stated Maturity.
The unpaid principal amount of the 2013 Senior Notes shall bear interest at the
rate of 5.00% per year until paid or duly provided for. Interest shall be paid
semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date, commencing May 24, 2004,
to the Person in whose name the 2013 Senior Notes are registered on the Regular
Record Date for such Interest Payment Date, provided that interest payable at
the Stated Maturity of principal will be paid to the Person to whom principal is
payable. Any such interest that is not so punctually paid or duly provided for
will forthwith cease to be payable to the holders on such Regular Record Date
and may be paid as provided in Section 2.03 of the Original Indenture.

         Payments of interest on the 2013 Senior Notes will include interest
accrued to but excluding the respective Interest Payment Dates. Interest
payments for the 2013 Senior Notes shall be computed and paid on the basis of a
360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. In the event that any date on
which interest is payable on the 2013 Senior

                                       4

Notes is not a Business Day, then a payment of the interest payable on such date
will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without any
interest or other payment in respect of any such delay), except that, if such
Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, such payment shall be made
on the immediately preceding Business Day, in each case with the same force and
effect as if made on the date the payment was originally payable.

         Payment of the principal and interest due at the Stated Maturity of the
2013 Senior Notes shall be made upon surrender of the 2013 Senior Notes at the
Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee. The principal of and interest on the 2013
Senior Notes shall be paid in such coin or currency of the United States of
America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and
private debts. Payments of interest (including interest on any Interest Payment
Date) will be made, subject to such surrender where applicable, at the option of
the Company, (i) by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto
as such address shall appear in the Security Register or (ii) by wire transfer
at such place and to such account at a banking institution in the United States
as may be designated in writing to the Trustee at least 15 days prior to the
date for payment by the Person entitled thereto.

SECTION 1.04. Denominations.

         The 2013 Senior Notes may be issued in denominations of $1,000, or any
integral multiple thereof.

SECTION 1.05. Global Securities.

         The 2013 Senior Notes will be issued in the form of one or more Global
Securities registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee. Except under
the limited circumstances described below, 2013 Senior Notes represented by
Global Securities will not be exchangeable for, and will not otherwise be
issuable as, 2013 Senior Notes in definitive form. The Global Securities
described above may not be transferred except by the Depositary to a nominee of
the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another
nominee of the Depositary or to a successor Depositary or its nominee.

         Owners of beneficial interests in such Global Securities will not be
considered the holders thereof for any purpose under the Indenture, and no
Global Security representing a 2013 Senior Note shall be exchangeable, except
for another Global Security of like denomination and tenor to be registered in
the name of the Depositary or its nominee or to a successor Depositary or its
nominee. The rights of holders of such Global Securities shall be exercised only
through the Depositary.

         A Global Security shall be exchangeable for 2013 Senior Notes
registered in the names of Persons other than the Depositary or its nominee only
as provided by Section 2.11(c) of the Original Indenture. Any Global Security
that is exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be exchangeable
for 2013 Senior Notes registered in such names as the Depositary shall direct.

                                       5

SECTION 1.06. Transfer.

         No service charge will be made for any registration of transfer or
exchange of 2013 Senior Notes, but payment will be required of a sum sufficient
to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection
therewith.

SECTION 1.07. Defeasance.

         The provisions of Sections 13.02 and 13.03 of the Original Indenture
will apply to the 2013 Senior Notes.

SECTION 1.08. Redemption at the Option of the Company.

         The 2013 Senior Notes will be redeemable, at the option of the Company,
in whole at any time or in part from time to time (a "Redemption Date"), at a
redemption price (the "Redemption Price") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of
the principal amount of the 2013 Senior Notes to be redeemed and (ii) an amount
equal to the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments for
principal and interest on the 2013 Senior Notes to be redeemed, not including
any portion of the payments of interest accrued as of such Redemption Date,
discounted to such Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day
year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate, plus 12.5 basis
points; plus in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the 2013 Senior Notes
to be redeemed to, but excluding, such Redemption Date.

         "Treasury Rate" means the rate per year equal to the semi-annual
equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using
a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its
principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption
Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding
the Redemption Date.

         "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security
selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to
the remaining term of the 2013 Senior Notes to be redeemed that would be
utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial
practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable
maturity to the remaining term of the 2013 Senior Notes.

         "Independent Investment Banker" means any of Banc of America Securities
LLC, Banc One Capital Markets, Inc. or Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated, as specified by the Company, and any successor firm or, if such
firm is unwilling or unable to select the Comparable Treasury Issue, an
independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the
Trustee after consultation with the Company.

         "Comparable Treasury Price" means with respect to any Redemption Date
for the 2013 Senior Notes (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer
Quotations for such

                                       6

Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury
Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than five such Reference
Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.

         "Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Banc of America Securities
LLC, Banc One Capital Markets, Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated and two other primary U.S. government securities dealers (each a
"Primary Treasury Dealer"), as specified by the Company; provided that (1) if
any of Banc of America Securities LLC, Banc One Capital Markets, Inc., Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated or any Primary Treasury Dealer as
specified by the Company shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the
Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer and (2) if the
Company fails to select a substitute within a reasonable period of time, then
the substitute will be a Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Trustee after
consultation with the Company.

         "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to the
Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by
the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue
(expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in
writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York
City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.

         Notwithstanding Section 3.02 of the Original Indenture, the notice of
redemption with respect to the foregoing redemption need not set forth the
Redemption Price but only the manner of calculation thereof.

         The Company shall notify the Trustee of the Redemption Price with
respect to the foregoing redemption promptly after the calculation thereof. The
Trustee shall not be responsible for calculating said Redemption Price.

         If less than all of the 2013 Senior Notes are to be redeemed, the
Trustee shall select the 2013 Senior Notes or portions of the 2013 Senior Notes
to be redeemed by such method as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate. The
Trustee may select for redemption 2013 Senior Notes and portions of 2013 Senior
Notes in amounts of $1,000 and whole multiples of $1,000.

                                   ARTICLE II

                            MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SECTION 2.01. Recitals by the Company.

         The recitals in this Sixth Supplemental Indenture are made by the
Company only and not by the Trustee, and all of the provisions contained in the
Original Indenture in respect of the rights, privileges, immunities, powers and
duties of the Trustee shall be

                                        7

applicable in respect of the 2013 Senior Notes and of this Sixth Supplemental
Indenture as fully and with like effect as if set forth herein in full.

SECTION 2.02. Ratification and Incorporation of Original Indenture.

         As supplemented hereby, the Original Indenture is in all respects
ratified and confirmed, and the Original Indenture and this Sixth Supplemental
Indenture shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.

SECTION 2.03. Executed in Counterparts.

         This Sixth Supplemental Indenture may be simultaneously executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, and such
counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.

                                       8

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each party hereto has caused this instrument to be
signed in its name and behalf by its duly authorized officers, all as of the day
and year first above written.

                                        METLIFE, INC.

                                        By: /s/ Anthony J. Williamson
                                            --------------------------------
                                            Name: Anthony J. Williamson
                                            Title: Senior Vice President and
                                            Treasurer

                                        J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                        NATIONAL ASSOCIATION

                                        By: /s/ Mary Fonti
                                            -------------------------------
                                            Name: Mary Fonti
                                            Title: Authorized Officer

                                       9

EXHIBIT A

                 FORM OF 5.00% SENIOR NOTE DUE NOVEMBER 24, 2013

         THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE ORIGINAL
INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY ("DTC"), A NEW YORK
CORPORATION, TO METLIFE, INC. OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER,
EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF
CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE
OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS
REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER
USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS
THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.

         EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN SECTION 2.11 OF THE ORIGINAL INDENTURE,
THIS NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, ONLY TO ANOTHER NOMINEE
OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR TO A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR
DEPOSITARY.

                                       A-1

No.____                                                    CUSIP No. 59156RAG3
                                                           ISIN No. US59156RAG39

                                  METLIFE, INC.
                                5.00% Senior Note
                              Due November 24, 2013

Principal Amount:         $500,000,000

Regular Record Date:      with respect to each Interest Payment Date, the close
                          of business on the preceding May 9 or November 9,
                          as the case may be

Original Issue Date:      November 24, 2003

Stated Maturity:          November 24, 2013

Interest Payment Dates:   May 24 and November 24, commencing May 24, 2004

Interest Rate:            5.00% per year

Authorized Denomination:  $1,000

         MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company," which term
includes any successor corporation under the Indenture referred to on the
reverse hereof), for value received, hereby promises to pay to _________, or
registered assigns, the principal sum of _________ ($_________) on the Stated
Maturity shown above, and to pay interest thereon from the Original Issue Date
shown above, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has
been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on each Interest
Payment Date as specified above, commencing on May 24, 2004, and on the Stated
Maturity at the rate per year shown above until the principal hereof is paid or
made available for payment and on any overdue principal and on any overdue
installment of interest to the extent permitted by law. The interest so payable,
and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (other
than an Interest Payment Date that is the Stated Maturity) will, as provided in
the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at
the close of business on the Regular Record Date as specified above next
preceding such Interest Payment Date, provided that any interest payable at
Stated Maturity will be paid to the Person to whom principal is payable. Any
such interest that is not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith
cease to be payable to the holders on such Regular Record Date and may be paid
as provided in Section 2.03 of the Original Indenture.

                                       A-2

Payments of interest on this Note will include interest accrued to but
excluding the respective Interest Payment Dates. Interest payments for this Note
shall be computed and paid on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve
30-day months. In the event that any date on which interest is payable on this
Note is not a Business Day, then payment of the interest payable on such date
will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without any
interest or other payment in respect of any such delay), except that, if such
Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, payment shall be made on
the immediately preceding Business Day, in each case with the same force and
effect as if made on the date the payment was originally payable.

         Payment of the principal of and interest due at the Stated Maturity of
this Note shall be made upon surrender of this Note at the Corporate Trust
Office of the Trustee. The principal of and interest on this Note shall be paid
in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of
payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. Payment of
interest (including interest on an Interest Payment Date) will be made, subject
to such surrender where applicable, at the option of the Company, (i) by check
mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall
appear in the Security Register or (ii) by wire transfer at such place and to
such account at a banking institution in the United States as may be designated
in writing to the Trustee at least 15 days prior to the date for payment by the
Person entitled thereto.

         The Senior Notes (as defined on the reverse hereof) will be unsecured
obligations of the Company and will rank equally in right of payment with all of
the other unsecured, unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company from time to
time outstanding. The Senior Notes will rank senior to any subordinated
indebtedness of the Company.

         REFERENCE IS HEREBY MADE TO THE FURTHER PROVISIONS OF THIS NOTE SET
FORTH ON THE REVERSE HEREOF, WHICH FURTHER PROVISIONS SHALL FOR ALL PURPOSES
HAVE THE SAME EFFECT AS IF SET FORTH AT THIS PLACE.

         Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by
the Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit
under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

                                       A-3

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly
executed under its corporate seal.

                                                     METLIFE, INC.

                                                     By:   ____________________
                                                           Name:
                                                           Title:

Attest:

   ________________
   Name:
   Title:

                             [Seal of MetLife, Inc.]

                          CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

         This is one of the 5.00% Senior Notes due November 24, 2013 referred to
in the within-mentioned Indenture.

                                                     J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                                     NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                                                     as Trustee

                                                     By:  ______________________
                                                          Authorized Officer

                                       A-4

(Reverse Side of Note)

         This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of senior notes of the
Company issued and issuable in one or more series under an Indenture dated as of
November 9, 2001 (the "Original Indenture"), as supplemented by the Sixth
Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 24, 2003 (the "Sixth Supplemental
Indenture," and together with the Original Indenture, the "Indenture"), between
the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (as successor to
Bank One Trust Company, N.A.), as Trustee (the "Trustee," which term includes
any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all
indentures incidental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the
respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of
the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the Senior Notes issued thereunder
and of the terms upon which said Senior Notes are, and are to be, authenticated
and delivered. This Senior Note is one of the series designated on the face
hereof as 5.00% Senior Notes due November 24, 2013 (the "Senior Notes"),
initially limited in aggregate principal amount of $500,000,000; provided,
however, that the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes may be
increased in the future, without the consent of the holders of the Senior Notes,
on the same terms and with the same CUSIP and ISIN numbers as the Senior Notes.
Capitalized terms used herein for which no definition is provided herein shall
have the meanings set forth in the Indenture.

         This Note is exchangeable in whole or from time to time in part for
Senior Notes of this series in definitive registered form only as provided
herein and in the Indenture. If (i) at any time the Depositary notifies the
Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for this Note
or if at any time the Depositary shall no longer be registered or in good
standing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or other
applicable statute or regulation, and the Company does not appoint a successor
Depositary within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes
aware of such condition, as the case may be, or (ii) the Company in its sole
discretion determines that this Note shall be exchangeable for Senior Notes of
this series in definitive registered form and executes and delivers to the
Security Registrar a written order of the Company providing that this Note shall
be so exchangeable, this Note shall be exchangeable for Senior Notes of this
series in definitive registered form, provided that the definitive Senior Notes
so issued in exchange for this Note shall be in denominations of $1,000 and any
integral multiples, without coupons, and be of like aggregate principal amount
and tenor as the portion of this Note to be exchanged. Except as provided above,
owners of beneficial interests in this Note will not be entitled to have Senior
Notes registered in their names, will not receive or be entitled to physical
delivery of Senior Notes in definitive registered form and will not be
considered the holders thereof for any purpose under the Indenture. Neither the
Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent nor the Security Registrar shall have any
responsibility or liability for any aspect of records relating to or payments
made on account of beneficial ownership interests in this Note, or for
maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial
ownership interests.

                                       A-5

If an Event of Default with respect to the Senior Notes shall occur and
be continuing, the principal of the Senior Notes may be declared due and payable
in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the
Indenture.

         The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the
amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the
Company and the rights of the holders of the Senior Notes under the Indenture at
any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the holders of not
less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes at the
time Outstanding. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the holders
of specified percentages in principal amount of the Senior Notes at the time
Outstanding, on behalf of the holders of all Senior Notes, to waive compliance
by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past
defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver
by the holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and
upon all future holders of this Note and of any Senior Note issued upon the
registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether
or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.

         The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the
entire indebtedness of the Company pursuant to this Note and (b) restrictive
covenants and the related Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with
certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Note.

         The Senior Notes will be redeemable, at the option of the Company, in
whole at any time or in part from time to time (a "Redemption Date"), at a
redemption price (the "Redemption Price") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of
the principal amount of the Senior Notes to be redeemed and (ii) an amount equal
to the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments for
principal and interest on the Senior Notes to be redeemed, not including any
portion of the payments of interest accrued as of such Redemption Date,
discounted to such Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day
year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate, plus 12.5 basis
points; plus in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the Senior Notes to be
redeemed to, but excluding, such Redemption Date.

         "Treasury Rate" means the rate per year equal to the semi-annual
equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using
a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its
principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption
Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding
the Redemption Date.

         "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security
selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to
the remaining term of the Senior Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at
the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in
pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the
remaining term of the Senior Notes.

                                       A-6

"Independent Investment Banker" means any of Banc of America Securities
LLC, Banc One Capital Markets, Inc. or Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated, as specified by the Company, and any successor firm or, if such
firm is unwilling or unable to select the Comparable Treasury Issue, an
independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the
Trustee after consultation with the Company.

         "Comparable Treasury Price" means with respect to any Redemption Date
for the Senior Notes (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference
Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than five such
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.

         "Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Banc of America Securities
LLC, Banc One Capital Markets, Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated and two other primary U.S. government securities dealers (each a
"Primary Treasury Dealer"), as specified by the Company; provided that (1) if
any of Banc of America Securities LLC, Banc One Capital Markets, Inc., Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated or any Primary Treasury Dealer as
specified by the Company shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the
Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer and (2) if the
Company fails to select a substitute within a reasonable period of time, then
the substitute will be a Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Trustee after
consultation with the Company.

         "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to the
Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by
the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue
(expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in
writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York
City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.

         Notwithstanding Section 3.02 of the Original Indenture, the notice of
redemption with respect to the foregoing redemption need not set forth the
Redemption Price but only the manner of calculation thereof.

         The Company shall notify the Trustee of the Redemption Price with
respect to the foregoing redemption promptly after the calculation thereof. The
Trustee shall not be responsible for calculating said Redemption Price.

         If less than all of the Senior Notes are to be redeemed, the Trustee
will select the Senior Notes or portions of Senior Notes to be redeemed by such
method as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate. The Trustee may select for
redemption Senior Notes and portions of Senior Notes in amounts of $1,000 and
whole multiples of $1,000.

         No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or
of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is
absolute and

                                       A-7

unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at the time,
place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.

         As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein
set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security Register,
upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency
of the Company for such purpose, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written
instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company or the Security
Registrar and duly executed by, the holder hereof or his attorney duly
authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Senior Notes, of authorized
denominations and of like tenor and for the same aggregate principal amount,
will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. No service charge
shall be made for any such exchange or registration of transfer, but the Company
will require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental
charge payable in connection therewith.

         Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the
Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent and the Security Registrar of the Company
or the Trustee may deem and treat the Person in whose name this Note is
registered as the absolute owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this
Note be overdue and notwithstanding any notice of ownership or writing thereon
made by anyone other than the Security Registrar, and neither the Company nor
the Trustee nor any Paying Agent nor the Security Registrar shall be affected by
notice to the contrary.

         The Senior Notes are issuable only in registered form without coupons
in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. As provided in the
Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Senior Notes are
exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes of a
different authorized denomination, as requested by the holder surrendering the
same upon surrender of the Senior Note or Senior Notes to be exchanged at the
office or agency of the Company.

         No recourse shall be had for payment of the principal of or interest on
this Note, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect hereof, or
based on or in respect of the Indenture, against any incorporator, stockholder,
officer or director, past, present or future, as such, of the Company or of any
predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution,
statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or
otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the
consideration for the issuance hereof, expressly waived and released.

         Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by
the Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit
under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

         This Note shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the
internal laws of the state of New York.

                                       A-8

ABBREVIATIONS

         The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face
of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full
according to applicable laws or regulations:

TEN COM - as tenants in common               UNIF GIFT MIN ACT - Custodian under
                                             Uniform Gift to Minors Act

                                             ___________________________________
                                             (State)
TEN ENT - as tenants by the entireties

JT TEN - as joint tenants with right of
         survivorship and not as
         tenants in common

                    Additional abbreviations may also be used
                          though not on the above list.

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s) and transfer(s) unto

PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS, INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF
ASSIGNEE

________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
(please insert Social Security or other identifying number of assignee)

the within Note and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and
appointing

________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________

agent to transfer said Note on the books of the Company, with full power of
substitution in the premises.

Dated:   ______________                      ___________________________________
                                             ___________________________________
                                             NOTICE: The signature to this
                                             assignment must correspond with the
                                             name as written upon the face of
                                             the within instrument in every
                                             particular without alteration or
                                             enlargement, or any change
                                             whatever.

                                      A-9

EXHIBIT B

                          CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

         This is one of the 5.00% Senior Notes due November 24, 2013 referred to
in the within-mentioned Indenture.

                                                 J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                                 NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as
                                                 Trustee

                                                 By: ___________________________
                                                         Authorized Officer

                                       B-1

</EX-4.6>

<EX-10.4>
 4
 y74655exv10w4.txt
 EX-10.4: FORM OF MANAGEMNET STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT

Exhibit 10.4

MANAGEMENT STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT

      MetLife, Inc., confirms that, on February 19, 2002, it granted you,
________, ___ stock options (your "Options"). Each Option entitles you to
purchase one share of the Company's common stock (the "Common Stock") for $30.35
per share (the "Exercise Price"). Your Options are subject to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement and of the MetLife, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan
(the "Plan"). The word "Section" refers to a Section in this Agreement. Any
other capitalized word used in this Agreement but not defined here is defined in
the Plan.

      1.  NORMAL TERM OF YOUR OPTIONS.  Except as provided in Sections 3 and 4:

      (a)   one-third of your Options will become exercisable on each of the
            first, second and third anniversaries of February 19, 2002;

      (b)   you may exercise your Options until the close of business on
            February 18, 2012; and

      (c)   you need not exercise all of your Options at one time.

No matter what else this Agreement says, under no circumstances may any of your
Options be exercised prior to April 7, 2002.

      2. METHOD OF EXERCISE AND PAYMENT. You may exercise any of your Options
that have become exercisable by notifying the Company, using procedures that
will be established for this purpose, and paying for those shares at the time
you exercise your Options. You may pay the Exercise Price in one or more of the
following ways: (a) in cash or its equivalent, (b) by exchanging shares of
Common Stock you already own (as long as those shares are not subject to any
pledge or other security interest), or (c) through an arrangement with the
broker designated by the Company in which the broker will use the proceeds of
the sale of a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock to pay the Exercise
Price. The combined value of all cash (or its equivalent) paid and the Fair
Market Value of any Common Stock tendered to the Company for exchange must have
a value as of the date they are tendered that is at least equal to the Exercise
Price. If you retain some or all of the shares after you exercise your Options,
you will receive evidence of ownership of those shares.

      3.  TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT OR DISABILITY.  For purposes of this
Section 3, your transfer between the Company and any of its Subsidiaries will
not be a termination of employment.

      (a) Disability. In the event of your Disability, your Options will become
exercisable just as they would have if you remained in active service, and they
may be exercised at any time until the close of business on February 18, 2012.
Any of your Options that are not exercised within that period will be forfeited.
Once this Section applies, Sections 3(b), (c), (e) and (f) will not apply to
your Options, even if you
 
subsequently return to active service or terminate employment with the Company
or any of its Subsidiaries for any reason.

      (b) Death. In the event that your employment with the Company or any of
its Subsidiaries terminates due to your death, all of your Options will become
fully exercisable as of the date of death and will remain so until the close of
business on [February 18, 2012. Any of your Options that are not exercised
within that period will be forfeited.

      (c) Approved Retirement. If your employment with the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries terminates due to your Approved Retirement, your Options will
become exercisable just as if you had not retired, and you may exercise your
Options at any time until the close of business on February 18, 2012. Any of
your Options that are not exercised within that period will be forfeited. In
addition to other events that constitute an Approved Retirement under the Plan,
your actual retirement on or after the early retirement date established under
any retirement plan maintained by the Company or a Subsidiary in which you
participate will be considered an Approved Retirement. "Bridge eligibility" is
not considered Approved Retirement.

      (d) Termination for Cause. In the event that your employment with the
Company or any of its Subsidiaries is terminated for Cause, all of your
unexercised Options will be forfeited immediately.

      (e) Certain Divestitures. If the Committee determines that your employment
with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries has terminated in connection with a
sale, divestiture, spin-off or other similar transaction involving a Subsidiary,
division or business segment or unit, the Committee may provide (1) that any or
all of your Options will become exercisable just as if you had continued in the
employ of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, and (2) that you may exercise
your Options at any time until the close of business on February 18, 2012, or
within three years after the termination of your employment, whichever occurs
first. Any of your Options that are not exercised within that period will be
forfeited.

      (f) Other Termination of Employment. Unless the Committee determines
otherwise, if your employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries terminates
for any reason other than those listed in paragraphs (b), (c), (d) or (e) of
this Section 3, including, for example, your voluntary termination of employment
or your termination by the Company without Cause, your Options that are
exercisable as of the date of termination will remain exercisable for a period
of 30 days or until the close of business on February 18, 2012, whichever period
is shorter. All of your Options that are not exercisable at the date of
termination will be forfeited immediately, as will any exercisable Option that
is not exercised within that period.

      (g) No Guarantee of Employment. This Agreement is not a contract of
employment and it is not a guarantee of employment for life or any period of
time. Nothing in this Agreement interferes with or limits in any way the right
of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to terminate your employment at any
time. This Agreement

2
 
does not give you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any of
its Subsidiaries or any other affiliate of the Company.

            4.  CHANGE OF CONTROL.

      (a) Accelerated Exercisability and Payment. Except as provided in Section
4(b), if a Change of Control occurs, all of your unexercised Options will become
exercisable immediately, regardless of the applicable exercise schedule.
However, the Committee may elect to redeem your Options for a cash payment equal
to the Change of Control Price less the Exercise Price, multiplied by the number
of exercisable Options that you have not yet exercised.

      (b) Alternative Award. Notwithstanding Section 4(a), your Options will not
become exercisable immediately, and they will not be subject to being redeemed
with a cash payment to you, if the Committee reasonably determines in good
faith, prior to the Change of Control, that your Options will be honored or
assumed, or new rights substituted for the outstanding Options (referred to as
an "Alternative Award") by your employer or an affiliate immediately after the
Change of Control. Any Alternative Award must:

      (1)   be based on stock which is traded on an established securities
            market, or that the Committee reasonably believes will be traded on
            an established securities market within 60 days after the Change of
            Control;

      (2)   provide you with rights substantially equivalent to or better than
            the rights applicable to your Options (including, but not limited
            to, an identical or better exercise schedule, and identical or
            better timing and methods of payment);

      (3)   have substantially equivalent economic value to your Options
            (determined at the time of the Change of Control); and

      (4)   provide that, in the event that your employment is involuntarily or
            constructively terminated after a Change of Control, any conditions
            imposed on your rights under an Alternative Award, including any
            restrictions on transfer or exercisability of any Alternative Award,
            will be waived or will lapse.

            For these purposes, a constructive termination is a termination of
            employment by you following a material reduction in your base salary
            or incentive compensation opportunity or a material reduction in
            your responsibilities, in each case without your consent.

        5. NONTRANSFERABILITY OF AWARDS. You may not sell, transfer, pledge,
assign or otherwise alienate or hypothecate any of your Options, other than by
will or by the laws of descent and distribution. All rights with respect to your
Options are exercisable during your lifetime only by you.

3
 
        6. BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION. You may name any beneficiary or
beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) who may then
exercise any right under this Agreement in the event of your death. Each stock
option beneficiary designation will revoke all prior stock option designations.
Beneficiary designations must be in a prescribed form and must be filed with the
Company during your lifetime. If you have not designated a beneficiary, your
rights under this Agreement will pass to and may be exercised by your surviving
spouse, if any, or otherwise by your estate.

      7. TAX WITHHOLDING. The Company may withhold, or require you to remit, an
amount sufficient to satisfy Federal, state, and local withholding tax
requirements relating to the exercise of your Options, and the Company may defer
payment of cash or the issuance of Common Stock until this requirement is
satisfied. You may satisfy this withholding requirement by:

      (a)   paying cash (or its equivalent) to the Company to cover the tax
            obligation;

      (b)   having Common Stock otherwise issuable upon the exercise of your
            Options withheld by the Company and the cash value of those shares
            applied to cover the tax obligation; or

      (c)   delivering previously acquired shares of Common Stock to the Company
            having a Fair Market Value as of the date of exercise equal to all
            or part of the tax obligation associated with the transaction, and
            cash equal to the balance of the tax obligation.

      8. ADJUSTMENT OF THE NUMBER OF OPTION SHARES. In the event of any Common
Stock dividend, Common Stock split, recapitalization (including, but not limited
to, the payment of an extraordinary dividend), merger, consolidation,
combination, spin-off, distribution of assets to stockholders (other than
ordinary cash dividends), exchange of shares, or other similar corporate change,
the number of shares of Common Stock subject to your Options and the Exercise
Price will be appropriately adjusted by the Committee as required by the Plan.
The Committee's determination in this regard will be conclusive.

      9. REQUIREMENTS OF LAW. The issuance of shares of Common Stock pursuant to
your Options is subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and to
any approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as
may be required. No shares of Common Stock will be issued upon exercise of any
of your Options if that issuance or exercise would result in a violation of
applicable law, including the federal securities laws and any applicable state
or foreign securities laws. Your Options are not intended to be incentive stock
options under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

      10. GOVERNING LAW; CHOICE OF FORUM. This Agreement will be construed in
accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of
the law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws. Any action
to enforce this Agreement or any action otherwise regarding this Agreement must
be brought in a court in the State of New York, to which jurisdiction the
Company and you consent.

4
 
      11.  INTERPRETATION; CONSTRUCTION.  Any determination or interpretation
by the Committee pursuant to this Agreement will be final and conclusive.  In
the event of a conflict between any term of this Agreement and the terms of
the Plan, the terms of the Plan control.

      12. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Agreement and the Plan represent the entire
agreement between you and the Company regarding your Options. No promises,
terms, or agreements of any kind regarding your Options that are not set forth
in this Agreement or in the Plan, or to which there is no reference in this
Agreement or the Plan, are part of this Agreement.

      13. AMENDMENTS. The Committee has the exclusive right to amend this
Agreement as long as the amendment is consistent with the Plan. The Company will
give written notice to you (or, in the event of your death, to your beneficiary,
surviving spouse or estate) of any amendment as promptly as practicable after
its adoption.

      14. AGREEMENT TO PROTECT CORPORATE PROPERTY. This grant of Options is
subject to your execution of the attached Agreement to Protect Corporate
Property. You must sign this Agreement and the Agreement to Protect Corporate
Property and return a signed copy of each to James Petrosini, Vice President,
Compensation, not later than April 30, 2002, or this Agreement and the Options
grant will be null and void. The Company may in its sole discretion grant an
extension of this deadline if warranted.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to
execute, and you have executed, this Agreement, each as of February 19, 2002.
                                    METLIFE, INC.

By:
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Name

                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Title

                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Signature

EMPLOYEE

                                    --------------------------------------------
                                    Name

                                    --------------------------------------------
                                    Signature

5

</EX-10.4>

<EX-10.7>
 5
 y74655exv10w7.txt
 EX-10.7: FORM OF DIRECTOR STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT

Exhibit 10.7

DIRECTOR STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT

MetLife, Inc. (the "Company"), confirms that, on April 23, 2002, it granted to
you 2,230 stock options (your "Options"). Each Option entitles you to purchase
one Share of the Company's common stock (the "Common Stock") for $33.64 per
Share (the "Exercise Price"). Your Options are subject to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement and the Company's 2000 Directors Stock Plan, as
amended (the "Plan"). Any defined term used in this Agreement but not defined
herein is defined in the Plan.

1.    NORMAL TERM OF YOUR OPTIONS.  Except as provided in Sections 3 and 6:

      (a)   your Options are exercisable on April 23, 2002;

      (b)   you may exercise your Options until April 23, 2012; and

      (c)   you need not exercise all of your Options at one time.

2.    METHOD OF EXERCISE AND PAYMENT.  You may exercise any of your Options
      that have become exercisable by notifying the Secretary of the Company
      of your election to do so and the number of Shares you have elected to
      purchase, and paying for those Shares at the time you exercise your
      Options.  You may pay the Exercise Price in one or more of the following
      ways:  (a) in cash or its equivalent, (b) by exchanging Shares of Common
      Stock you already own (as long as those Shares are not subject to any
      pledge or other security interest), or (c) through an arrangement with
      the broker designated by the Company in which the broker will use the
      proceeds of the sale of a sufficient number of Shares of Common Stock to
      pay the Exercise Price.  The combined value of all cash (or its
      equivalent) paid and the Fair Market Value of any Common Stock tendered
      to the Company for exchange must have a value as of the date they are
      tendered at least equal to the Exercise Price.  If you retain some or
      all of the Shares after you exercise your Options, you will receive
      evidence of ownership of those Shares.

3.    TERMINATION OF SERVICE. If you cease to serve as a Director of the
      company, you (or in the case of your death, your beneficiary or estate as
      determined by Section 5) may exercise any of your Options at any time
      until April 23, 2012.

4.    NONTRANSFERABILITY OF AWARDS. You may not transfer, pledge, assign,
      negotiate, or hypothecate any of your Options in any way, other than by
      will or by the laws of descent and distribution. All rights with respect
      to your Options are Exercisable during your lifetime only by you.
 
5.    BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION.  You may name any beneficiary or beneficiaries
      (who may be named contingently or successively) who may then exercise
      any right under this Agreement in the case of your death.  Each stock
      option beneficiary designation will revoke all prior stock option
      designations.   Beneficiary designations must be in a prescribed form
      and must be filed with the Company during your lifetime.  If you have
      not designated a beneficiary, your rights under this Agreement will pass
      to and may be exercised by your estate.

6.    ADJUSTMENT OF THE NUMBER OF OPTION SHARES.  In the event of any Share
      dividend, Share split, recapitalization, merger, consolidation,
      combination, spinoff, distribution of assets to stockholders (other than
      ordinary cash dividends), exchange of Shares, or other similar corporate
      change, the number of Shares of Common Stock subject to your options and
      the Exercise Price will be appropriately adjusted by the Governance and
      Finance Committee (the "Committee") as required by the Plan.   The
      Committee's determination in this regard will be conclusive.

7.    REQUIREMENTS OF LAW.  The issuance of Shares of Common Stock pursuant to
      your Options is subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations,
      and to any approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities
      exchanges as may be required.  No Shares of Common Stock will be issued
      upon exercise of any of your options if that issuance or exercise would
      result in a violation of applicable law, including the federal
      securities laws and any applicable state or foreign securities laws.
      Your Options are not intended to be incentive stock options under the
      Internal Revenue Code of 1986,as amended.

8.    GOVERNING LAW; CHOICE OF FORUM. This Agreement will be construed in
      accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of the law
      that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws. Any action to
      enforce this Agreement or any action otherwise regarding this Agreement
      must be brought in a court in the State of New York, to which jurisdiction
      the Company and you consent.

9.    INTERPRETATION; CONSTRUCTION.  Any determination or interpretation by
      the Committee pursuant to this Agreement will be final and conclusive.
      In the event of a conflict between any terms of this Agreement and the
      terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan control.

10.   ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Agreement and the Plan represent the entire
      agreement between you and the Company regarding your Options. No promises,
      terms, or agreements of any kind regarding your Options that are not set
      forth in this Agreement or the Plan, or to which there is no reference in
      this Agreement or the Plan, are part of this Agreement.

2
 
11.   AMENDMENTS. The Committee has the exclusive right to amend this Agreement
      as long as the amendment is consistent with the Plan. The Company will
      give written notice to you (or, in the event of your death, to your
      beneficiary or estate) of any amendment as promptly as practicable after
      its adoption.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to
execute, an you have executed, this Agreement, each as of April 23, 2002.

METLIFE, INC.

By:
                                 --------------------------------------------
                                   Robert H. Benmosche
                                   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

DIRECTOR

-----------------------------------------------
                              [NAME]

3

</EX-10.7>

<EX-10.41>
 6
 y74655exv10w41.txt
 EX-10.41: METLIFE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR OFFICERS

Exhibit 10.41

  THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING SECURITIES THAT HAVE
         BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED.

                 MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for Officers
              (as amended and restated effective November 1, 2003)

1.       Purpose. The purpose of the Plan is to provide an opportunity for
         Participants to delay receipt of certain compensation until a later
         date, at which time payment of the compensation will be made after
         adjustment for the simulated investment experience of such compensation
         from date of deferral.

2.       Plan Administration.

         2.1.     The Plan Administrator shall administer the Plan.

         2.2.     The Plan Administrator may establish, amend, and rescind rules
                  and regulations relating to the Plan, provide for conditions
                  necessary or advisable to protect the interest of the MetLife
                  Companies, construe all communications related to the Plan,
                  and make all other determinations it deems necessary or
                  advisable for the administration and interpretation of the
                  Plan.

         2.3.     Determinations, interpretations, and other actions made by the
                  Plan Administrator shall be final, binding, and conclusive for
                  all purposes and upon all individuals.

         2.4.     The Plan Administrator may prescribe forms as the sole and
                  exclusive means for Participants to take actions authorized or
                  allowed under the Plan. The Plan Administrator may issue
                  communications to Eligible Associates and Participants as it
                  deems necessary or appropriate in connection with the Plan
                  (including but not limited to communications explaining the
                  risks and potential benefits of the Investment Tracking
                  Funds). Subject to the provisions of Section 20, the Plan
                  Administrator may, in its sole discretion, adjust the value of
                  Deferred Compensation Accounts on a basis other than as
                  prescribed in Deferral Elections or Reallocation Elections,
                  including but not limited to the use of Investment Tracking
                  Funds other than those selected by the Participant.

         2.5.     Except to the extent prohibited by law, communication by the
                  Plan Administrator (and by an Eligible Associate or
                  Participant to the extent authorized by the Plan
                  Administrator) of any document or writing, including any
                  document or writing that must be executed by a party, may be
                  in an electronic form of communication.

         2.6.     The Plan Administrator may appoint such agents, who may be
                  officers or employees of a MetLife Company, as it deems
                  necessary or appropriate to assist it in administering the
                  Plan and may grant authority to such agents to execute
                  documents and take action on its behalf. The Plan
                  Administrator may consult such legal counsel, consultants, or
                  other professional as it deems desirable and may rely on any
                  opinion received from any such professional or from its agent.
                  All expenses incurred in the administration of the Plan shall
                  be paid by one or more of the MetLife Companies.
 
3.       Eligibility to Participate. Each Officer and 090 Employee shall be
         eligible to participate in this Plan; provided, however, that unless
         the Plan Administrator determines otherwise, no Officer or 090 Employee
         who receives a payment pursuant to Section 13 of this Plan (or similar
         provision in any other non-qualified deferred compensation plan in
         which the individual participated by virtue of employment with any
         MetLife Company) shall be eligible to participate in this Plan with
         regard to Compensation payable in any calendar year prior to the
         calendar year next beginning after the third anniversary of such
         payment pursuant to Section 13 is made.

4.       Deferral Elections.

         4.1.     Each calendar year at such time as is determined by the Plan
                  Administrator, each Eligible Associate may complete a Deferral
                  Election applicable to the Eligible Associate's Compensation
                  payable in the following calendar year and submit such
                  Deferral Election to the Plan Administrator. The Plan
                  Administrator shall prescribe the form(s) of Deferral
                  Election.

         4.2.     Each Deferral Election shall indicate (a) the percentage, in
                  increments of 5%, or maximum dollar amount of base salary
                  (which, for greater clarity, shall not include any payments
                  under any such plans contingent on a separation agreement,
                  release, or similar agreement) that would otherwise be paid
                  the receipt of which the Eligible Associate wishes to defer
                  into a Deferred Cash Compensation Account, which shall be no
                  greater than 75% of base salary; (b) the percentage, in
                  increments of 5%, or (except for payments under the Long Term
                  Performance Compensation Plan, International Long Term
                  Performance Compensation Plan, or payments to an 090 Employee)
                  maximum dollar amount of Cash Incentive Compensation, by plan
                  under which such Compensation may be payable, that would
                  otherwise be paid the receipt of which the Eligible Associate
                  wishes to defer into a Deferred Cash Compensation Account
                  (provided, however, that if the Participant expresses a
                  maximum dollar amount of Cash Incentive Compensation for
                  deferral and the amount of Cash Incentive Compensation
                  actually payable to the Participant is less than the maximum
                  dollar amount specified, the Deferral Election shall be deemed
                  to apply to the full amount of the Cash Incentive
                  Compensation); (c) the percentage, in increments of 5%, of
                  Stock Compensation that would otherwise be paid the receipt of
                  which the Eligible Associate wishes to defer into a Deferred
                  Stock Compensation Account; (d) the percentage, in increments
                  of 5%, of cash payments under the Long Term Performance
                  Compensation Plan which the Eligible Associate wishes to defer
                  into a Deferred Stock Compensation Account, (e) the Investment
                  Tracking Fund(s) which the Eligible Participant selects to
                  adjust the value of the Deferred Cash Compensation Account and
                  the value of the Matching Contribution Account, in increments
                  of 5%; (f) the date on which the Eligible Participant wishes
                  the payment of the Deferred Stock Compensation Account to
                  begin; (g) the date on which the Eligible Participant wishes
                  the payment of the Deferred Cash Compensation Account and
                  Matching Contribution Account to begin; (h) whether the
                  Deferred Compensation Accounts are to be paid in a single lump
                  sum or annual installments; and (i) if the Deferred
                  Compensation Accounts are to be paid in annual installments,
                  the number (not to exceed fifteen (15)) of such installments.
                  If, upon Employment Discontinuance (or upon the conclusion of
                  the Participant's receipt of severance payments), the

2
 
                  Participant is Retirement Eligible or will be deemed to be
                  Retirement Eligible upon attaining age 55, the Participant's
                  elections regarding Cash Incentive Compensation and/or
                  Deferred Stock Compensation shall be applied to any such
                  compensation otherwise payable after the Participant's
                  Employment Discontinuance.

         4.3.     Each Deferral Election that specifies any deferral of base
                  salary in terms of a maximum dollar amount rather than in
                  percentage terms must specify deferral of at least two hundred
                  dollars ($200) of base salary per pay period. Each Deferral
                  Election that specifies any deferral of Cash Incentive
                  Compensation in terms of a maximum dollar amount rather than
                  in percentage terms must specify deferral of at least five
                  thousand dollars ($5,000) of Cash Incentive Compensation per
                  year.

         4.4.     Each Deferral Election shall indicate the date(s) on which the
                  Eligible Associate wishes the payment of a Deferred
                  Compensation Account to begin by indicating either: (a) a
                  single date certain that is no earlier than January 1 of the
                  calendar year following the calendar year in which the third
                  anniversary of the latest date any Compensation subject to the
                  Deferral Election would have otherwise been paid; (b) the date
                  of the Eligible Associate's termination of employment with
                  Retirement Eligibility.

         4.5.     The Plan Administrator may, in its discretion, either reject
                  or reform any Deferral Election not consistent with (a) this
                  Section 4; (b) employer compliance with legal requirements
                  (including those regarding sufficient tax withholding and
                  those regarding payroll taxation for FICA or otherwise); or
                  (c) requirements for employee contributions or premium
                  payments from compensation under the terms of any plan.

         4.6.     Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Plan, no
                  Compensation payable to a Participant less than one-hundred
                  eighty (180) days after the first day of the second calendar
                  month following a hardship payment to the Participant under
                  SIP or other qualified deferred compensation plan in which the
                  individual participates by virtue of employment with any
                  MetLife Company shall be deferred under this Plan.

5.       Investment Tracking.

         5.1.     Except as provided in Section 2.4 of this Plan, the value of a
                  Participant's Deferred Stock Compensation Account, and only
                  the value of such Deferred Stock Compensation Account, shall
                  be adjusted using the MetLife Deferred Shares Fund as provided
                  in Section 6.1 of this Plan, on the same basis as if the value
                  of such Stock Compensation had been invested in MetLife Stock
                  for such period(s) of time determined by the Deferral Election
                  until it is payable.

         5.2.     The number of shares representing cash payments under the Long
                  Term Performance Compensation Plan deferred into a Deferred
                  Stock Compensation Account pursuant to the terms of Section
                  4.2(d) of this Plan shall be initially determined by dividing
                  the amount of the cash payment deferred by the Fair Market
                  Value of the MetLife Stock on the date such payment was
                  granted to the Participant under the terms of the Long Term
                  Performance Compensation Plan, and shall thereafter be subject
                  to Investment Tracking on the same terms as the balance of the
                  Deferred Stock Compensation Account under Section 5.1 of this
                  Plan.

3
 
         5.3.     Except as provided in Sections 2.4 and 5.1 of this Plan, the
                  value of each Participant's Deferred Cash Compensation Account
                  and Matching Contribution Account shall be adjusted to reflect
                  the simulated investment performance using the Investment
                  Tracking Funds selected by the Participant for purposes of
                  such valuation in the Deferral Election, and those selected by
                  the Participant in subsequent Reallocation Elections, on the
                  same basis as if the value of such Deferred Compensation
                  Accounts had been invested in such Investment Tracking Funds
                  for such period(s) of time determined by the Deferral Election
                  and any Reallocation Election until it is payable.

6.       Investment Tracking Funds. The methods of Investment Tracking described
         in this Section 6 shall be available for Deferral Elections and
         Reallocation Elections. If this Section 6 is amended, the Plan
         Administrator may require the Participant to make an appropriate change
         in the Participant's Investment Tracking or may unilaterally impose a
         method of Investment Tracking with regard to such parts of a
         Participant's Deferred Compensation Accounts affected by that
         amendment.

         6.1.     MetLife Deferred Shares Fund. Subject to Section 14.5 of this
                  Plan, value tracked in the MetLife Deferred Shares Fund shall
                  be accounted in number of tracking shares equal to the number
                  of shares of MetLife Stock deferred and adjusted to simulate
                  the effect of each and any of the following on the Stock
                  Compensation had it been paid in MetLife Stock: (a) dividend;
                  (b) stock dividend; (c) stock split; (d) MetLife, Inc.
                  recapitalization (including, but not limited, to the payment
                  of an extraordinary dividend), (e) merger, consolidation,
                  combination, or spin-off affecting MetLife, Inc.
                  capitalization; (f) distribution of MetLife, Inc. assets to
                  holders of MetLife Stock (other than ordinary cash dividends);
                  (g) exchange of shares, or (h) other similar corporate change.
                  Unless otherwise determined by the Plan Administrator, only
                  the value of a Participant's Deferred Stock Compensation
                  Account may be tracked in the MetLife Deferred Shares Fund.

         6.2.     Actively managed funds: Investment Tracking according to the
                  changes in value of shares or units, as applicable, and
                  simulated reinvested dividends and other distributions to
                  share/accountholders in:

                  6.2.1.   MetLife SIP Fixed Income Fund

                  6.2.2.   Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Fund

                  6.2.3.   Oakmark Fund (R)

                  6.2.4.   MetLife SIP Small Company Stock Fund

                  6.2.5.   Oakmark International Fund

         6.3.     Market index funds: Investment Tracking according to the
                  changes in value of the:

                  6.3.1.   S&P 500 (R) Index

                  6.3.2.   Russell 2000 (R) Index

                  6.3.3.   Nasdaq Composite (R) Index

                  6.3.4.   MSCI-EAFE (R) Index

                  6.3.5.   Lehman Brothers (R) Aggregate Bond Index

4
 
                  6.3.6.   Merrill Lynch US High Yield Master II Index

                  6.3.7.   MSCI EMF Index (sm)

7.       Reallocation Elections.

         7.1.     The Participant may change the Investment Tracking Funds used
                  to adjust either (a) the value of new contributions to his/her
                  Deferred Cash Compensation Account and credits to his/her
                  Matching Contribution Account, from the date(s) Compensation
                  is deferred rather than paid and any Matching Contributions
                  are credited, as the case may be; and/or (b) the value of the
                  Participant's existing Deferred Cash Compensation Account and
                  Matching Contribution Account.

         7.2.     Unless otherwise determined by the Plan Administrator, a
                  Reallocation Election shall be effective on the date it is
                  received by the Plan Administrator, or on the following
                  business day if it is received by the Plan Adminstrator at a
                  time when the Plan Administrator determines it is not
                  practicable or convenient to the operation of the Plan to
                  apply such Reallocation Election on the date it is received.
                  The number of Reallocation Elections by a Participant
                  regarding each of items (a) and (b) of Section 7.1,
                  respectively, shall not exceed six (6) in any calendar year.

8.       Matching Contribution. If a Participant makes contributions to SIP
         throughout a calendar year, the Participant's Matching Contribution
         Account shall be credited with the amount of matching contributions (if
         any) with which the Participant's SIP account would have been credited
         under the terms and provisions of such plan, in each case with relation
         to deferred Compensation in that calendar year and the Compensation not
         been deferred. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Matching Contributions
         shall be credited in favor of a Participant during the suspension of
         such Participant's deferrals pursuant to Section 4.6 of this Plan.

9.       Beneficiary Designation. The Plan Administrator shall prescribe the
         form by which each Eligible Associate and Participant may designate a
         beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or
         successively, and among whom payments received under this Plan may be
         split as indicated by the individual) for purposes of receiving payment
         of Deferred Compensation Accounts under this Plan after the death of
         such individual. Each designation will be effective only upon its
         receipt by the Plan Administrator during the life of the individual
         making the designation and shall revoke all prior beneficiary
         designations by that individual related to this Plan.

10.      Payment of Deferred Compensation Accounts.

         10.1.    Amount. Except as provided in Section 2.4 of this Plan, the
                  amount of payment(s) of each Deferred Compensation Account
                  shall reflect the value of those Deferred Compensation
                  Accounts through the date each payment of Deferred
                  Compensation Accounts is payable, as adjusted for Investment
                  Tracking. If payment of Deferred Compensation Accounts is to
                  be made in installments, then the amount of each installment
                  payment will be determined by dividing the value of each of
                  the Deferred Compensation Accounts at the time each payment is
                  due by the remaining number of installments in which the
                  Deferred Compensation Accounts is to be paid.

5
 
         10.2.    Form. Except as provided in Section 14.5 of this Plan, payment
                  of a Participant's Deferred Stock Compensation Account shall
                  be made in the form of shares of MetLife Stock. The form of
                  payment of all other Deferred Compensation Accounts shall be
                  cash.

         10.3.    Timing and Number of Payments.

                  10.3.1.  If a Participant dies on any date prior to completion
                           of all payments from a Participant's Deferred
                           Compensation Accounts, the unpaid portions of the
                           Participant's Deferred Compensation Accounts shall
                           become immediately payable in a lump sum.

                  10.3.2.  If the date on which payment of a Participant's
                           Deferred Compensation Accounts is to begin, as
                           specified in the Participant's Deferral Election,
                           occurs prior to the Participant's Employment
                           Discontinuance, then the Participant's Deferred
                           Compensation Accounts shall be payable beginning on
                           the date determined by the Participant's Deferral
                           Election and in the number of payments determined by
                           the Participant's Deferral Election; provided,
                           however, that if the Participant's Employment
                           Discontinuance occurs prior to the completion of all
                           such payments, then all remaining Deferred
                           Compensation Account shall be paid in a lump sum.

                  10.3.3.  If the date on which payment of a Participant's
                           Deferred Compensation Accounts is to begin, as
                           specified in the Participant's Deferral Election, has
                           not occurred prior to the Participant's Employment
                           Discontinuance, and Participant is Retirement
                           Eligible upon Employment Discontinuance (or upon the
                           conclusion of the Participant's receipt of severance
                           payments), then the Participant's Deferred
                           Compensation Accounts shall be payable beginning on
                           the date determined by the Participant's Deferral
                           Election and in the number of payments determined by
                           the Participant's Deferral Election.

                  10.3.4.  If the date on which payment of a Participant's
                           Deferred Compensation Accounts is to begin, as
                           specified in the Participant's Deferral Election, has
                           not yet occurred prior to the Participant's
                           Employment Discontinuance, and the Participant (a) is
                           not Retirement Eligible upon Employment
                           Discontinuance; (b) is, at Employment Discontinuance,
                           eligible to participate in a severance plan offered
                           by a MetLife Company; and (c) either will be deemed
                           to be Retirement Eligible upon attaining age 55 or
                           whose benefit under the Retirement Plan is otherwise
                           determined with reference to the reduction factors
                           for commencing benefit payments prior to normal
                           retirement age applicable to Retirement Plan
                           participants with twenty (20) or more years of
                           service, then the Participant's Deferred Compensation
                           Accounts shall be payable and in the number of
                           payments determined by the Participant's Deferral
                           Election beginning on the date determined by the
                           Participant's Deferral Election; provided, however,
                           that if the Participant's Deferral Election specified
                           payment upon Retirement Eligibility then the
                           Participant's Deferred Compensation Accounts shall be
                           payable upon the Participant's Employment
                           Discontinuance.

                  10.3.5.  If the date on which payment of a Participant's
                           Deferred Compensation Accounts is to begin, as
                           specified in the Participant's Deferral Election, has
                           not occurred prior to the Participant's Employment
                           Discontinuance, and neither Sections 10.3.3

6
 
                           nor 10.3.4 applies to the Participant, then the
                           Participant's Deferred Compensation Accounts shall be
                           payable in a lump sum upon the Participant's
                           Employment Discontinuance, notwithstanding the
                           Participant's Deferral Election.

                  10.3.6.  If, consistent with the terms of Section 10 other
                           than this Section 10.3.6, the Participant's Deferral
                           Election applies to Cash Incentive Compensation or
                           Stock Compensation payable after the Participant's
                           Employment Discontinuance, then the Participant's
                           Deferred Compensation Accounts shall be payable
                           beginning on the date determined by the Participant's
                           Deferral Election and in the number of payments
                           determined by the Participant's Deferral Election.

                  10.3.7.  Notwithstanding any of the other terms of this
                           Section 10.3, distribution of amounts from a
                           Participant's Matching Contribution Account shall not
                           be made beginning on any date earlier than the date
                           on which payments of Matching Contributions could
                           have been payable under the terms of SIP. To the
                           extent that the Participant's Matching Contribution
                           Account is not payable on the earliest date(s) that
                           the Participant's other Deferred Compensation
                           Accounts become payable, in each case by virtue of
                           this Section 10.3.7, the Matching Contribution
                           Account shall be paid in a lump sum.

                  10.3.8.  Notwithstanding any of the other terms of this
                           Section 10.3, except Section 10.3.7, to the extent a
                           Participant's Deferred Compensation Accounts are
                           payable pursuant to Section 12 or Section 13 of this
                           Plan, payment shall be made in a single lump sum.

                  10.3.9.  Notwithstanding any of the other terms of this
                           Section 10.3, if a Participant's Deferred
                           Compensation Accounts are otherwise payable upon
                           Employment Discontinuance, but as of that date the
                           Participant has been offered severance pay, then the
                           Participant's Deferred Compensation Accounts shall be
                           payable upon the later of (x) the Participant's date
                           of Employment Discontinuance and (y) the date the
                           final severance payment is made to the Participant by
                           a MetLife Company or an Affiliate. Notwithstanding
                           the foregoing, if this Section 10.3.9 applies, the
                           Plan Administrator may, in its sole discretion,
                           determine that the Deferred Compensation Accounts are
                           payable on any date after the Participant's date of
                           Employment Discontinuance.

                  10.3.10. Payment(s) of a Participant's Deferred Compensation
                           Accounts shall be made as soon as practicable after
                           they are payable, as determined by the Plan
                           Administrator.

         10.4.    To Whom Paid. Except as otherwise provided in this Section
                  10.4 of this Plan, all payments of a Participant's Deferred
                  Compensation Accounts will be made to the Participant. If a
                  Participant dies on any date prior to the date of the
                  completion of all such payments, all unpaid value in the
                  Participant's Deferred Compensation Accounts shall be paid to
                  the beneficiary designated for that purpose by the
                  Participant. If the Participant's designated beneficiary has
                  not survived the Participant, or the Participant has
                  designated no beneficiary for purposes of this Plan, such
                  payment will be made to the Participant's surviving spouse, if
                  any, or if the Participant has no surviving spouse to the
                  Participant's estate.

7
 
         10.5.    Withholding. Withholding of taxes and other items required by
                  law shall be made from each payment of a Participant's
                  Deferred Compensation Account or from other payments due to
                  the Participant from MetLife, Inc., any MetLife Company, or
                  any Affiliate.

11.      Loans and Assignments. The Plan shall make no loan, including any loan
         on account of any Deferred Compensation Account, to any Participant or
         any other person nor permit any Deferred Compensation Account to serve
         as the basis or security for any loan to any Participant or any other
         person. No Participant or any other person may sell, assign, transfer,
         pledge, commute, or encumber any Deferred Compensation Account or any
         other rights under this Plan.

12.      Hardship Accommodations.

         12.1.    Upon the written request of an Eligible Associate or
                  Participant, the Plan Administrator may, in its sole
                  discretion and in light of any facts or considerations it
                  deems appropriate, find that the Eligible Associate or
                  Participant has suffered an Unforeseeable Emergency. In light
                  of such a finding, the Plan Administrator may, to the extent
                  the Plan Administrator determines necessary for the Eligible
                  Associate or Participant to address the Unforeseeable
                  Emergency, (a) suspend the deferral of receipt of Compensation
                  by the Eligible Associate or Participant pursuant to a
                  Deferral Election; and/or (b) to the extent the Plan
                  Administrator finds, in its sole discretion, that such a
                  suspension of deferral is insufficient to address the
                  Participant's Unforeseeable Emergency, accelerate the payment
                  of all or a portion of the Participant's Deferred Compensation
                  Accounts. The Plan Administrator shall provide the Eligible
                  Associate or Participant with written notice of its
                  determinations in response to the Eligible Associate's or
                  Participant's request.

         12.2.    The total amount of deferrals suspended or payment advanced
                  shall not exceed the amount required to satisfy the financial
                  consequences of the Unforseeable Emergency and amounts equal
                  to the withholding required by Section 10.5, and shall not
                  exceed the total value of the Deferred Compensation Accounts
                  under the Plan. No accommodation pursuant to this Section 12
                  shall be implemented in manner or at a time when prohibited or
                  punishable by any applicable MetLife Company policy or law,
                  including but not limited to law regarding trading of
                  securities on inside information and the exemptions therefrom.

         12.3.    If the Eligible Associate or Participant participates in any
                  other deferred compensation plan by virtue of employment with
                  any MetLife Company, the Plan Administrator may coordinate the
                  operation of this Section 12 with the operation or similar
                  provisions of any such other plan, including but not limited
                  to reducing the value of deferrals in ascending order of the
                  value of deferrals in each plan beginning with the plan in
                  which the individual's deferrals have the lowest value.

         12.4.    In the event that an acceleration of payment from the
                  Participant's Deferred Compensation Accounts is made, (a) the
                  value of the Participant's Deferred Cash Compensation Account
                  shall be reduced, and (b) if the reduction in the value of the

8
 
                  Participant's Deferred Cash Compensation Account is less than
                  the payment made, the Plan Administrator may in its sole
                  discretion reduce the value of the Participant's Matching
                  Contribution Account and/or Deferred Stock Compensation
                  Account, in amounts determined by the Plan Administrator in
                  its discretion, equal to a total reduction equal to the
                  difference between the payments made and the value by which
                  the Participant's Deferred Cash Compensation Account was
                  reduced.

         12.5.    To the extent that the value of the Participant's Deferred
                  Cash Compensation Account or Matching Contribution Account is
                  reduced, the value tracked according to each Investment
                  Tracking Fund shall be reduced proportionate to the total
                  value of the Deferred Cash Compensation Account or Matching
                  Contribution Account, respectively, being tracked in that
                  Investment Tracking Fund.

13.      Accelerated Payment. A Participant shall, upon written request, be paid
         ninety per cent (90%) of the value of the Participant's Deferred
         Compensation Accounts but shall forfeit ten per cent (10%) of the value
         of the Participant's Deferred Compensation Accounts. Each participant
         receiving such a payment under this Section 13 shall be ineligible to
         participate in this Plan for such time as provided in Section 3 of this
         Plan. No payment pursuant to this Section 13 shall be made in manner or
         at a time when prohibited or punishable by any applicable MetLife
         Company policy or law, including but not limited to law regarding
         trading of securities on inside information and the exemptions
         therefrom.

14.      Change of Control.

         14.1.    The Plan Administrator shall transmit to each Eligible
                  Associate communications and documents necessary for each
                  Participant to complete a Change of Control Election
                  applicable to the Participant's Deferred Compensation
                  Accounts.

         14.2.    Each Change of Control Election shall indicate whether the
                  Participant wishes payment of Deferred Compensation Accounts
                  to be made under the circumstances described in Section 14.4
                  of this Plan.

         14.3.    Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, Section 2.3 of
                  this Plan shall no longer be applicable to any rights,
                  including accrued Deferred Compensation Accounts, existing in
                  favor of any Participant as of the date before the Change of
                  Control.

         14.4.    Upon the occurrence of both (a) a Change of Control and (b) a
                  Participant's Employment Discontinuance on or after the Change
                  of Control but before the second anniversary of the Change of
                  Control, payment of all Deferred Compensation Accounts shall
                  be made in a lump sum to the Participant if the Participant's
                  Change of Control Election specifies that payment shall be
                  made in such circumstances.

         14.5.    Upon a Change of Control, the value of a Participant's
                  Deferred Stock Compensation Account shall immediately be
                  determined using the Change of Control Value price of MetLife
                  Stock on the date of the Change of Control. Thereafter, the
                  value of the Participant's Deferred Stock Compensation Account
                  shall be adjusted, and the form of payment of the Deferred
                  Stock Compensation Account shall be in a form, each as
                  determined prior to the Change of Control by the Plan
                  Administrator on a basis the Plan Administrator determines is
                  reasonable in light of the Change of Control. If the

9
 
                  Plan Administrator makes no determination pursuant to the
                  foregoing prior to the Change of Control, after a Change of
                  Control the value of the Participant's Deferred Stock
                  Compensation Account shall be adjusted, and the form of
                  payment of the Deferred Stock Compensation Account shall be in
                  a form, each on a basis as is selected by the Participant from
                  among the same alternatives available at the time to the
                  Participant with regard to the Deferred Cash Compensation
                  Account.

15.      Nature of Liability. All Deferred Compensation Accounts accrued under
         this Plan on or after January 1, 2003 are unsecured obligations of
         MetLife, Inc. and any successor thereto, and are neither obligations,
         debts, nor liabilities of any other entity or party. This Plan and the
         liabilities created hereunder are unfunded. Investment Tracking, any
         other means for adjusting the value of Deferred Compensation Accounts,
         and any communication or documentation regarding this Plan or any
         Participant's Deferred Compensation Accounts are for recordkeeping
         purposes only and do not create any right, property, security, or
         interest in any assets of MetLife, Inc. or any other party. All
         Deferred Compensation Accounts accrued under this Plan on or after
         January 1, 2003 are subject to the claims of general creditors of
         MetLife, Inc; all Deferred Compensation Accounts accrued under this
         Plan prior to January 1, 2003 are subject to the claims of general
         creditors of the company liable for such Deferred Compensation
         Accounts. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any MetLife Company
         employing a Participant ceases to be an Affiliate, the Plan
         Administrator may determine on or before the date of the transaction in
         which the MetLife Company ceased to be an Affiliate (or afterward, with
         the consent of an officer of MetLife, Inc.), that the liabilities
         associated with some or all of the employees of that MetLife Company
         who are Participants shall transfer from MetLife, Inc. to that MetLife
         Company as of the date that MetLife Company ceases or ceased to be an
         Affiliate.

16.      No Guarantee of Employment; No Limitation on Employer Action. Nothing
         in this Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of any
         employer to establish the terms and conditions of employment of any
         individual, including but not limited to compensation and benefits, or
         to terminate the employment of any individual, nor confer on any
         individual the right to continue in the employ of any employer. Nothing
         in this Plan shall limit the right of any employer to establish any
         other compensation or benefit plan. No Deferred Compensation Account
         shall be treated as compensation for purposes of a Participant's right
         under any other plan, policy, or program, except as stated or provided
         in such plan, policy, or program. Nothing in this Plan shall be
         construed to limit, impair, or otherwise affect the right of any entity
         to make adjustments, reorganizations, or changes to its capital or
         business structure, or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate,
         sell, or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.

17.      Term of Plan. This Plan shall be effective in this restated form on
         November 1, 2003, as approved by the Plan Administrator in accordance
         with the terms of the Plan as amended and restated effective October
         22, 2002, and shall continue in effect unless and until it is
         terminated pursuant to its terms.

18.      Governing Law. The Plan shall be construed in accordance with and
         governed by New York law, without regard to principles of conflict of
         laws.

10
 
19.      Entire Plan; Third Party Beneficiaries. This Plan document is the
         entire expression of the Plan, and no other oral or written
         communication, other than documents authorized under this Plan and
         fulfilling its express terms, shall determine the terms of the Plan or
         the terms of any agreement between an Eligible Associate or Participant
         and a MetLife Company with regard to the Plan or Deferred Compensation
         Accounts. There are no third party beneficiaries to this Plan, other
         than Participants' respective beneficiaries designated under the terms
         of this Plan.

20.      Amendment and Termination. Except to the extent otherwise required by
         law, the Plan Administrator may amend, modify, suspend, or terminate
         this Plan at any time. Any such amendment or termination will not
         reduce the amount in Deferred Compensation Accounts accrued under this
         Plan prior to the execution of such amendment or termination. For
         further clarification, except as stated in the sentence above (or as
         provided in Section 14), amendments may otherwise be made to any and
         all provisions of the Plan, including but not limited to amendments
         affecting the time of distribution of Deferred Compensation Accounts,
         affecting forms of distribution of Deferred Compensation Accounts, or
         affecting any of the Investment Tracking Funds or any other means for
         adjusting the value of Deferred Compensation Accounts.

21.      Definitions. Capitalized terms in this Plan, and their forms, shall
         have the following meanings:

         21.1.    "Affiliate" shall mean any corporation, partnership, limited
                  liability company, trust or other entity which directly, or
                  indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is
                  controlled by, MetLife, Inc.

         21.2.    "Cash Incentive Compensation" shall mean compensation payable
                  in the form of cash under the Annual Variable Incentive
                  Compensation Plan, the Corporate Investments Incentive Plan,
                  the Real Estate Investments Incentive Plan, the Agricultural
                  Investments Incentive Plan, the Individual Regional Executive
                  Plan, the Institutional Regional Executive Plan, the
                  International Long Term Performance Compensation Plan, the
                  Long Term Performance Compensation Plan (and, in the case of
                  each incentive compensation plan, any successor plan(s)), or
                  payments of the nature of incentive compensation to an 090
                  Employee, but (for greater clarity) shall not include any
                  payments in lieu of compensation payable under any such plans
                  contingent on a separation agreement, release, or similar
                  agreement.

         21.3.    "Change of Control" shall mean the occurrence of any of:

                  21.3.1.  any Person acquires "beneficial ownership" (within
                           the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Securities
                           Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act")),
                           directly or indirectly, of securities of MetLife,
                           Inc. representing 25% or more of the combined Voting
                           Power of MetLife, Inc.'s securities;

                  21.3.2.  within any 24-month period, the persons who were
                           directors of MetLife, Inc. at the beginning of such
                           period (the "Incumbent Directors") shall cease to
                           constitute at least a majority of the Board of
                           Directors of MetLife, Inc. (the "Board") or the board
                           of directors of any successor to MetLife, Inc.;
                           provided, however, that any director elected or
                           nominated for election to the Board by a

11
 
                           majority of the Incumbent Directors then still in
                           office shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director
                           for purposes of this subsection 21.3.2;

                  21.3.3.  the stockholders of MetLife, Inc. approve a merger,
                           consolidation, share exchange, division, sale or
                           other disposition of all or substantially all of the
                           assets of MetLife, Inc. which is consummated (a
                           "Corporate Event"), and immediately following the
                           consummation of which the stockholders of MetLife,
                           Inc. immediately prior to such Corporate Event do not
                           hold, directly or indirectly, a majority of the
                           Voting Power of (1) in the case of a merger or
                           consolidation, the surviving or resulting
                           corporation, (2) in the case of a share exchange, the
                           acquiring corporation, or (3) in the case of a
                           division or a sale or other disposition of assets,
                           each surviving, resulting or acquiring corporation
                           which, immediately following the relevant Corporate
                           Event, holds more than 25% of the consolidated assets
                           of the MetLife, Inc. immediately prior to such
                           Corporate Event; or

                  21.3.4.  any other event occurs which the Board declares to be
                           a Change of Control.

         21.4.    "Change of Control Election" shall mean a written document
                  executed by the Eligible Associate specifying the Eligible
                  Associate's instructions regarding the matters addressed by
                  Section 14.4 of this Plan.

         21.5.    "Change of Control Value" shall mean the highest price per
                  share of MetLife Stock offered in conjunction with any
                  transaction resulting in a Change of Control (as determined in
                  good faith by the Plan Administrator if any part of the
                  offered price is payable other than in cash) or, in the case
                  of a Change of Control occurring solely by reason of a change
                  in the composition of the Board of Directors of MetLife, Inc.,
                  the highest Closing Value of the MetLife Stock on any of the
                  30 trading days immediately preceding the date on which a
                  Change of Control occurs. For this purpose, the "Closing
                  Value" shall mean, on any date, the closing prices of MetLife
                  Stock as reported in the principal consolidated transaction
                  reporting system for the New York Stock Exchange (or on such
                  other recognized quotation system on which the trading prices
                  of MetLife Stock are quoted at the relevant time) on such
                  date, and in the event that there are no MetLife Stock
                  transactions reported on such tape (or such other system) on
                  such date, Closing Value shall mean the closing price on the
                  immediately preceding date on which MetLife Stock transactions
                  were so reported.

         21.6.    "Compensation" shall mean base salary, Cash Incentive
                  Compensation, and Stock Compensation payable by MetLife, Inc.
                  or an Affiliate.

         21.7.    "Deferral Election" shall mean a written document executed by
                  the Eligible Associate specifying the Eligible Associate's
                  instructions regarding the matters addressed by Section 4 of
                  this Plan.

         21.8.    "Deferred Cash Compensation Account" shall mean a
                  record-keeping account established for the benefit of a
                  Participant in which is credited Compensation otherwise
                  payable in cash to a Participant, but accounted for to the
                  credit of the Participant under the terms of this Plan rather
                  than paid to the Participant as and when originally earned.

12
 
         21.9.    "Deferred Compensation Account" shall mean a Deferred Cash
                  Compensation Account, Deferred Stock Compensation Account, or
                  Matching Contribution Account (and, when used in the plural,
                  all such Deferred Compensation Accounts to the credit of a
                  Participant under the terms of this Plan). The value of each
                  Deferred Compensation Account shall be adjusted as provided in
                  this Plan.

         21.10.   "Deferred Stock Compensation Account" shall mean a
                  record-keeping account established for the benefit of a
                  Participant in which is credited Compensation either (a)
                  otherwise payable in MetLife Stock to a Participant, or (b)
                  otherwise payable in cash as an award under the Long Term
                  Performance Compensation Plan, but which the Participant has
                  elected to defer in a Deferred Stock Compensation Account
                  under Section 4.2(d) of this Plan, but accounted for to the
                  credit of the Participant under the terms of this Plan rather
                  than paid to the Participant as and when originally earned.

         21.11.   "Eligible Associate" shall mean an Officer or 090 Employee at
                  such times that Officer or 090 Employee is eligible to
                  participate in this Plan as provided in Section 3 of this
                  Plan.

         21.12.   "Employment Discontinuance" shall mean the termination of
                  employment with a MetLife Company or an Affiliate, other than
                  in connection with the transfer of employment to another
                  MetLife Company or any Affiliate.

         21.13.   "Fair Market Value" shall mean, on any date, the closing price
                  of MetLife Stock as reported in the principal consolidated
                  transaction reporting system for the New York Stock Exchange
                  (or on such other recognized quotation system on which the
                  trading prices of MetLife Stock are quoted at the relevant
                  time) on such date. In the event that there are no MetLife
                  Stock transactions reported on such tape (or such other
                  system) on such date, Fair Market Value shall mean the closing
                  price on the immediately preceding date on which MetLife Stock
                  transactions were so reported.

         21.14.   "Investment Tracking" shall mean the adjustment of value to
                  reflect simulated investment performance.

         21.15.   "Investment Tracking Funds" shall mean those funds and
                  vehicles described in Section 6 of this Plan.

         21.16.   "Matching Contributions" shall mean the matching contributions
                  described in Section 8 of this Plan.

         21.17.   "Matching Contribution Account" shall mean a record-keeping
                  account established for the benefit of a Participant in which
                  is credited Matching Contributions.

         21.18.   "MetLife Companies" shall mean MetLife Group, Inc.;
                  Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company; MetLife
                  Securities, Inc.; MetLife Bank, National Association; and
                  Edison Supply and Distribution, Inc.

         21.19.   "MetLife Stock" shall mean shares of common stock of MetLife,
                  Inc.

         21.20.   "Officer" shall mean each individual who is employed by a
                  MetLife Company paid from the United States in United States
                  currency and is either (a) an officer of any one or more
                  MetLife Companies; (b) an employee of any MetLife Company in
                  the same or an equivalent compensation grade level as officers
                  of that MetLife Company; or (c) an employee of any MetLife
                  Company who is eligible under the terms of the Long

13
 
                  Term Performance Compensation Plan or the International Long
                  Term Performance Compensation Plan, notwithstanding the
                  individuals' Employment Discontinuance, for future payment
                  under either such plan.

         21.21.   "Participant" shall mean each Eligible Associate who has had
                  compensation deferred by operation of a deferral election
                  under this Plan.

         21.22.   "Person" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in
                  Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as supplemented by
                  Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, and shall include any
                  group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b) under the Exchange
                  Act); provided, however, that "Person" shall not include (i)
                  MetLife, Inc. or any Affiliate of MetLife, Inc., (ii) the
                  MetLife Policyholder Trust (and any person(s) who would
                  otherwise be described herein solely by reason of having the
                  power to control the voting of the shares held by that trust),
                  or (iii) any employee benefit plan (including an employee
                  stock ownership plan) sponsored by MetLife, Inc. or any
                  Affiliate of MetLife, Inc.

         21.23.   "Plan" shall mean this MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for
                  Officers.

         21.24.   "Plan Administrator" shall mean the Plan Administrator of the
                  Retirement Plan, including any person to whom such office has
                  been delegated consistent with the Retirement Plan.

         21.25.   "Reallocation Election" shall mean a written document executed
                  by the Participant specifying the Participant's instructions
                  regarding the matters addressed by Section 7 of this Plan.

         21.26.   "Retirement Eligible" shall mean: (a) if the Participant
                  participates in the Retirement Plan, the Participant has met
                  the age and service criteria necessary to begin receiving
                  pension payments under the "traditional formula" in the
                  Retirement Plan immediately upon terminating service
                  (regardless of whether the Participant is actually eligible to
                  receive "traditional formula" pension payments), and (b) if
                  the Participant participates in any other retirement plan
                  offered by a MetLife Company or any Affiliate, the Participant
                  has met the age and service criteria necessary to begin
                  receiving pension payments immediately upon terminating
                  service.

         21.27.   "Retirement Plan" shall mean the Metropolitan Life Retirement
                  Plan for United States Employees.

         21.28.   "SIP" shall mean each and all of the Savings and Investment
                  Plan for Employees of Metropolitan Life and Participating
                  Affiliates, the Metropolitan Life Auxiliary Savings and
                  Investment Plan, and the Metropolitan Life Supplemental
                  Auxiliary Savings and Investment Plan (and/or any successor
                  plan(s)).

         21.29.   "Stock Compensation" shall mean compensation payable in the
                  form of shares of MetLife Stock, including awards in that form
                  under the Long Term Performance Compensation Plan.

         21.30.   "Unforeseeable Emergency" shall mean severe financial hardship
                  to the Participant resulting from a sudden and unexpected
                  illness or accident of the Participant or a dependent of the
                  Participant, loss of the Participant's property due to
                  casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable
                  circumstances arising as a result of

                                       14
 
                  events beyond the control of the Participant, in any case that
                  is not or can not be relieved by the Participant through
                  reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise,
                  liquidation of the Participant's assets (to the extent such
                  liquidation would not itself cause severe financial hardship),
                  and in any case solely to the extent consistent with the
                  grounds for action by the Plan Administrator under Section 12
                  of the Plan under law in light of the tax status of the Plan.

         21.31.   "Voting Power" shall mean such number of Voting Securities as
                  shall enable the holders thereof to cast all the votes which
                  could be cast in an annual election of directors of a company.

         21.32.   "Voting Securities" shall mean all securities entitling the
                  holders thereof to vote in an annual election of directors of
                  a company.

         21.33.   "090 Employee" shall mean each individual who is employed by a
                  MetLife Company paid from the United States in United States
                  currency, who is either (a) classified by the individual's
                  employer in compensation grade 090 and earned two-hundred
                  thousand dollars ($200,000) in annual total cash compensation
                  benefitable under the terms of SIP for the twelve (12) months
                  immediately preceding October 1 of the year prior to the year
                  subject to the Deferral Election; (b) an employee of any
                  MetLife Company who was formerly a participant in the
                  GenAmerica Executive Deferred Savings Plan, deferred
                  compensation under that plan, and has submitted a Deferral
                  Election under this Plan for each year the individual was
                  otherwise eligible to do so under this Plan; or (c) deemed to
                  be an 090 Employee by the Plan Administrator in its
                  discretion.

15
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Plan Administrator has executed this amended and
restated this MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for Officers, effective
November 1, 2003.

PLAN ADMINISTRATOR

/s/ James N. Heston
- --------------------------------------------------------
James N. Heston

Date: November 4, 2003
      --------------------------------------------------

Witness: /s/ Anna Miraglia
         -----------------------------------------------

16

</EX-10.41>

<EX-10.47>
 7
 y74655exv10w47.txt
 EX-10.47: AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO LEADERSHIP DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

Exhibit 10.47

AMENDMENT NUMBER TWO TO THE
                  METLIFE LEADERSHIP DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN
  (As amended and restated effective with respect to salary and Cash Incentive
 Compensation January 1, 2005, and with respect to Stock Compensation April 15,
                                      2005)

     The MetLife Leadership Deferred Compensation Plan is hereby amended,
effective December 31, 2008, as follows:

1.   A new Section 4.3 is hereby added to the Plan to read as follows:

     "With regard to Qualifying Employees, for purposes of Section 4.2 above, in
     order for an amount to be eligible for deferral under this plan and to
     validly be the subject of a Deferral Election the amount deferred must be
     determined by the Plan Administrator to be: (a) benefitable under the terms
     of SIP, or (b) an award under the terms of the 2005 Stock and Incentive
     Compensation Plan. The Plan Administrator may reform or interpret any
     Deferral Election as necessary to limit the amount deferred as provided
     under this Section 4.3."

     All subsequent subsections within Section 4 of the Plan shall be
     re-designated accordingly.

2.   Section 7.2 is hereby amended to read as follows:

     "Unless the Plan Administrator determines otherwise, a Reallocation
     Election shall be effective on the date it is received by the Plan
     Administrator, or on the following business day if it is received by the
     Plan Administrator at a time when the Plan Administrator determines it is
     not practicable or convenient to the operation of the Plan to apply such
     Reallocation Election on the date it is received. The number of
     Reallocation Elections by a Participant for (a) and (b) of Section 7.1 of
     this Plan, shall not exceed six (6) in any calendar year for each of (a)
     and (b) of Section 7.1; provided, however, that the number of such
     Reallocation Elections submitted by a Participant on a single day shall be
     aggregated as a single election for purposes of the limit expressed in this
     sentence."

3.   Section 22.15 is hereby amended to read as follows:

     ""Key Employee" shall mean at any given time, an employee subject to Code
     Section 416(i) as of September 30 of the prior calendar year as determined
     by the Plan Administrator."

4.   Section 22.20 is hereby amended to read as follows:

     ""MetLife Companies" shall mean MetLife Group, Inc.; Metropolitan Property
     and Casualty Insurance Company; MetLife Bank, National Association; and
     SafeGuard Health Plans, Inc.(of California)."

5.   A new Section 22.27 is hereby added to the Plan to read as follows:

1

""Qualifying Employee" shall mean each individual who is employed by a
     MetLife Company paid from the United States in United States currency, who
     is either (a) classified in compensation grade 090, 112 through 121 or 152
     through 161 and who earned annual total cash compensation (without regard
     to benefitability under the terms of SIP), for the twelve (12) months
     immediately preceding October 1 of the year prior to the year subject to
     the Deferral Election or in such twelve (12) month period otherwise
     designated by the Plan Administrator, in excess of the compensation limit
     under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code (as indexed annually for inflation)
     for the year the deferral election is filed; (b) serving in the first
     calendar year in the compensation grades noted above and found by the Plan
     Administrator in its discretion to have earned compensation in excess of
     the compensation limit under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code from any or all
     employers or principals in the prior calendar year (or in the second prior
     calendar year, should the Plan Administrator anticipate or determine that
     information on the individual's earnings in the prior calendar year that
     the Plan Administrator would find sufficiently reliable is not available);
     (c) an employee of any MetLife Company who was formerly a participant in
     the GenAmerica Executive Deferred Savings Plan, deferred compensation under
     that plan, and has submitted a Deferral Election under this Plan for each
     year the individual was otherwise eligible to do so under this Plan; or (d)
     deemed to be a Qualifying Employee by the Plan Administrator in its
     discretion."

All subsequent subsections within Section 22 of the Plan shall be re-designated
accordingly.

6.   Section 22.30 which contained the definition of "090 Employee" is deleted
     in its entirety. All instances where "090 Employee" appears in each Section
     of the Plan are hereby changed to "Qualifying Employee".

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Plan Administrator has caused this Amendment to be
adopted this 11th day of December, 2008.

PLAN ADMINISTRATOR

/s/ Margery Brittain
- -------------------------------------
Margery Brittain

ATTEST:

/s/ Bonita Haskins
- -------------------------------------

2

</EX-10.47>

<EX-10.48>
 8
 y74655exv10w48.txt
 EX-10.48: DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR OUTSIDE DIRECTORS

EXHIBIT 10.48

               THE METLIFE DEFERRED COMPENSATION
               PLAN FOR OUTSIDE DIRECTORS

                                         2004

IMPORTANT NOTICES

This Program Description provides an overview of the MetLife Deferred
Compensation Plan for Outside Directors (the "Plan"). It is also the official
plan document that legally governs the Plan. This plan document will govern in
every respect and instance.

This Program Description may be updated from time to time to implement changes
in the Plan. Fund performance data will be updated periodically. These updates
will constitute part of the Prospectus distributed with respect to the Plan.

The Plan Administrator may amend, alter or terminate the Plan in accordance with
its terms at any time and for any reason.

MetLife, Inc. will have the obligation to pay amounts deferred under the Plan
from and after January 1, 2003. MetLife, Inc.'s obligations have been registered
under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Since this is an unfunded plan,
your rights or claims against assets or property are no greater than those of a
general creditor (see "Liability" on page 8).

       This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities
     that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
                  The date of this Prospectus is December 2003.

                                                                          Page 2

PLAN AT-A-GLANCE

PURPOSE                    To provide eligible directors with the opportunity to
                           defer their compensation payable in cash, thereby
                           deferring payment of federal and most state income
                           taxes on that amount.

ELIGIBILITY                Directors of MetLife, Inc. who are not employees of
                           MetLife, Inc. or any of its affiliates.

ELECTION OPTIONS           -  Deferral amount

                           -  Investment tracking funds

                           -  Distribution date

                           -  Number of distribution payments

ENROLLMENT PERIOD          December 9, 2003 - December 31, 2003.

CHANGES TO DISTRIBUTION    You may change either or both the date of payment (to
DATE AND/OR NUMBER OF      a later date) and number of payments, but may do so
PAYMENTS                   only once for each year's deferrals and must do so no
                           later than 12 months prior to the date of payment you
                           originally selected.

INVESTMENT CREDITS         Your deferred compensation account will be credited
                           with gains and losses reflecting the performance of
                           the investment tracking funds you select.

CHANGES IN AMOUNTS         None allowed, except for hardship.
DEFERRED

INVESTMENT TRACKING        Limited to a total of six times per year for either
FUND CHANGES               future deferrals or existing account balances.

DISTRIBUTION

  -  NUMBER                Lump-sum payment or up to 15 annual installments.

  -  TIMING                Beginning upon earlier of 60 days after termination
                           of service as a director or on a designated future
                           date.

  -  ACCELERATED           Immediate lump-sum payment, 10% penalty.

  -  HARDSHIP              Immediate lump-sum payment (availability strictly
                           limited).

TAXES                      Deferred compensation is taxable as ordinary income
                           at the time of distribution.

                           Rollover to an IRA, qualified plan or non-qualified
                           plan is not permitted.

BENEFICIARY                Upon your death, any existing account balance will be
                           paid to your designated beneficiary in a lump sum.

PLAN FUNDING               The Plan is a non-qualified, unfunded plan. Your
                           account is maintained for record-keeping purposes
                           only.

                                                                          Page 3

METLIFE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR OUTSIDE DIRECTORS

The MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors (the "Plan") allows
eligible directors to defer receiving a portion of their annual retainer,
committee chair, and meeting fees payable in cash, thereby deferring payment of
federal and most state income taxes until a later date when the deferred
payments are received. Participation in the Plan is completely voluntary.

ELIGIBILITY

Members of the Board of Directors of MetLife, Inc. (the "Board") who are not
employees of MetLife, Inc. or any of its affiliates ("Non-Management Directors")
are eligible to participate. In this Program Description, "you" refers to a
director who is eligible to participate in the Plan.

HOW THE PLAN WORKS

Prior to the year in which your cash fees would be payable, you may designate
all or a portion of those fees for deferral. Deferrals begin with the first fees
payable in cash during a calendar year and end with the last fees payable during
the calendar year. Designations do not carry over from year to year; you must
make a new designation each year.

If you were elected to the Board before October 1 of a given year, you may
designate all or a portion of your cash fees payable in that calendar year by
submitting a deferral election before the earlier of (1) the first meeting for
which you earn fees that you attend; or (2) the thirtieth day after you become
eligible to participate in the Plan. If you choose to defer any of your cash
fees, you must defer at least $10,000.

To defer your compensation, you need to complete a deferral election form
specifying:

- -        The percentage of your cash fees you want deferred;

- -        The investment tracking funds that will be used to adjust the value of
         your deferred compensation account;

- -        A future distribution date; and

- -        The number of distribution payments.

The form must be submitted within the enrollment period.

The MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors is a non-qualified
plan that is unfunded and subject to the risks described in this document.
Amounts credited to an account are solely for record-keeping purposes. The Plan
is not subject to protection under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974 (ERISA). See also "Liability" on page 8.

                                                                          Page 4

Before making your elections, you may wish to consult a tax or personal
financial advisor.

All deferrals are subject to the terms of the Plan, which are contained in this
document.

TAXES

Deferred compensation is not subject to current taxation under federal and most
state income tax laws until payment is made to you.

DEFERRAL AMOUNTS

Annually, you may elect to defer all or a portion of your fees payable in cash
in the following year for services as a director of MetLife, Inc., including
retainer fees, meeting fees, and committee chair fees. If you choose to defer
any of your cash fees, you must defer at least $10,000.

Once you elect your deferral amount, you may not change it except for suspension
of deferrals in cases of extreme hardship as provided in the Plan.

DEFERRED COMPENSATION ACCOUNT

A deferred cash account in your name will be established for record-keeping
purposes. You will receive account statements quarterly.

Your account will be credited on the date on which your deferred cash fees are
payable.

INVESTMENT TRACKING FUNDS

Investment tracking funds are used as a device for adjusting the value of your
account based on fund performance.

Each investment tracking fund reflects the investment returns of the actual fund
or index, which are measured on a daily basis. Gains or losses will be credited
or debited from your account, in effect "mirroring" the performance of the
specified fund or index. Your deferrals will not actually be invested in the
funds. If the aggregate performance of the funds mirrored by the investment
tracking funds you choose is positive, the value of your account will increase;
if it is negative, the value of your account will decrease.

The Plan may be amended in accordance with its terms to eliminate or replace any
investment tracking fund at any time.

You can select for your account one or more of 13 investment tracking funds,
each of which mirrors the performance of one of the following actual funds or
indexes.

                                                                          Page 5

ACTIVELY MANAGED FUNDS

MetLife SIP Fixed Income Fund
Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Fund
Oakmark Fund(R)
MetLife SIP Small Company Stock Fund
Oakmark International Fund

SINGLE-STOCK FUND

MetLife Common Stock Fund

MARKET INDEXES

S&P 500(R)Index
Russell 2000(R)Index
Nasdaq Composite(R)Index
MSCI EAFE(R)Index
Lehman Brothers(R)Aggregate Bond Index
Merrill Lynch US High Yield Master II Index
MSCI EMF Index(SM)

Fund allocations must be made in multiples of 5%.

You may change your investment tracking funds - either with regard to future
deferrals or existing account - at any time during the year by contacting
Nonqualified Plan Services (NQPS) at (phone) (877) 855-6777, (fax) (314)
444-0428; however, you may make no more than six changes per year. You will
receive confirmation of your changes shortly after they are made. Allocations
into and out of the MetLife Common Stock Fund must be pre-cleared with the
MetLife Corporate Secretary in accordance with the MetLife Inside Trading
Policy.

See page 10 for information about the investment tracking funds.

THE DISTRIBUTION DATE

You may choose to have your distributions begin either (1) on a specific date no
less than three years after the year of deferral (for example: for 2004, the
date you will choose may not be earlier than 2008), or (2) upon the termination
of your service as a Non-Management Director of MetLife, Inc. If you choose to
receive your account on a specific date, your account will be paid to you at the
earlier of (a) the date you selected, and (b) within 60 days following the
termination of your service as a director.

Once you have designated a distribution date, you cannot change it except as
described below under "Changing the Distribution Date And/Or Number of
Payments."

NUMBER OF PAYMENTS

You may elect to receive your account balance in either a lump-sum payment or up
to 15 annual installments. Each annual installment will be a fraction of the
account balance with one being the numerator and the number of payments
remaining being the denominator. For example, if you elect to receive 10 annual
payments, the first payment is equal to 1/10th of the account balance; the
second payment is equal to 1/9th of the account balance; and so on until final
payment is made.

                                                                          Page 6

FORM OF PAYMENTS

All payments will be made in cash.

TAXATION OF PAYMENTS

Payments are subject to deductions in accordance with federal, state and local
tax laws and regulations. Rollover to an IRA, qualified plan or non-qualified
plan is not permitted.

CHANGING THE DISTRIBUTION DATE AND/OR NUMBER OF PAYMENTS

You may make changes only once for each year's deferrals, at which time you may
change either or both: (1) the date you have selected to receive payment of your
deferred compensation; and/or (2) the number of payments you have chosen to
receive, so long as:

- -        such changes are made at the same time at least 12 months before the
         original date selected for payment; and

- -        if you select a new date for payment, that date must be later than the
         original date selected for payment.

OTHER PLAN FEATURES

PAYMENT TO BENEFICIARIES

If you die before commencement or completion of distributions, the balance in
your account will be paid as a single lump sum to your beneficiary. If you have
not designated a beneficiary, or your beneficiary dies before you do, your
account will be paid to your surviving spouse or, if you are not married at the
time, to your estate. A domestic partner is not considered a surviving spouse
under the Plan.

You may designate an individual, a trustee or your estate as your beneficiary,
and you may change your beneficiary at any time. Your beneficiary designation
will apply to current and all prior year deferrals under the Plan.

You may designate your beneficiary(ies) during each annual enrollment period. If
you wish to change your beneficiary designations during the year, contact NQPS
at (877) 855-6777. NQPS will send you a form on which you can make your new
beneficiary elections.

LOANS

No loans may be taken from your account.

                                                                          Page 7

HARDSHIP EXCEPTIONS

In cases of extreme hardship, the Plan Administrator may suspend deferrals or
make payments to you, reducing the value of your account. However, the total
amount suspended and advanced cannot exceed the amount required to satisfy the
financial consequences of the hardship and tax withholding requirements.

ACCELERATED DISTRIBUTION

You may take a lump-sum distribution of your account at any time. However, you
will be charged a 10% penalty by the Plan Administrator.

LIABILITY

Deferrals under the Plan are unfunded and unsecured obligations of MetLife, Inc.
Your rights are those of a general creditor of MetLife, Inc.

ASSIGNMENT

No assignment or pledge of the right to receive the payment of amounts deferred
or any other rights under the Plan may be made.

                            INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

                                                                          Page 8

CHANGE OF CONTROL PROTECTION

You will have the opportunity to choose to have your deferred compensation
account paid to you if your service as a Non-Management Director ends within two
years of a change of control of MetLife, Inc.(*) Payment would be made shortly
after your service ends, and this election would take precedence over your usual
deferral payment election. You will have the opportunity to make this election
only once for your entire deferred compensation account.

PLAN ADMINISTRATOR

The Plan is administered by a Plan Administrator who may establish, amend or
rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan. The Plan Administrator of
this Plan is also the Plan Administrator of the Metropolitan Life Retirement
Plan for U.S. Employees. The Employee Benefits Committee of the Metropolitan
Life Insurance Company appoints the Plan Administrator of the Retirement Plan,
who serves until such time as the Committee appoints a new Plan Administrator.

The Plan Administrator may amend, modify, suspend, or terminate the Plan at any
time and for any reason, except as otherwise required by law. The Plan
Administrator, however, may not amend, modify or terminate the Plan in a way
that will reduce the

- ----------
* "Change of Control" shall mean the occurrence of any of:

a.   any Person acquires "beneficial ownership" (within the meaning of Rule
     13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange
     Act")), directly or indirectly, of securities of MetLife, Inc. representing
     25% or more of the combined Voting Power of MetLife, Inc.'s securities;

b.   within any 24-month period, the persons who were directors of MetLife, Inc.
     at the beginning of such period (the "Incumbent Directors") shall cease to
     constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of MetLife, Inc.
     (the "Board") or the board of directors of any successor to MetLife, Inc.;
     provided, however, that any director elected or nominated for election to
     the Board of Directors of MetLife, Inc. by a majority of the Incumbent
     Directors then still in office shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director
     for purposes of this subsection 21.3.2;

c.   the stockholders of MetLife, Inc. approve a merger, consolidation, share
     exchange, division, sale or other disposition of all or substantially all
     of the assets of MetLife, Inc. which is consummated (a "Corporate Event"),
     and immediately following the consummation of which the stockholders of
     MetLife, Inc. immediately prior to such Corporate Event do not hold,
     directly or indirectly, a majority of the Voting Power of (1) in the case
     of a merger or consolidation, the surviving or resulting corporation, (2)
     in the case of a share exchange, the acquiring corporation, or (3) in the
     case of a division or a sale or other disposition of assets, each
     surviving, resulting or acquiring corporation which, immediately following
     the relevant Corporate Event, holds more than 25% of the consolidated
     assets of the MetLife, Inc. immediately prior to such Corporate Event; or

d.   any other event occurs which the Board of Directors of MetLife, Inc.
     declares to be a Change of Control.

For purposes of the definition of Change of Control: 1) "Person" shall have the
meaning ascribed to such term in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as
supplemented by Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, and shall include any
group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b) under the Exchange Act); provided,
however, that "Person" shall not include (i) MetLife, Inc. or any Affiliate of
MetLife, Inc., (ii) the MetLife Policyholder Trust (and any person(s) who would
otherwise be described herein solely by reason of having the power to control
the voting of the shares held by that trust), or (iii) any employee benefit plan
(including an employee stock ownership plan) sponsored by MetLife, Inc. or any
Affiliate of MetLife, Inc.; 2) "Voting Power" shall mean such number of Voting
Securities as shall enable the holders thereof to cast all the votes which could
be cast in an annual election of directors of a company; 3) "Voting Securities"
shall mean all securities entitling the holders thereof to vote in an annual
election of directors of a company; and 4) "Affiliate" shall mean any
corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust or other entity which
directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is
controlled by, MetLife, Inc.

                                                                          Page 9

amount that has been accrued in your deferred compensation account prior to the
effective date of the amendment, modification or termination.

The determinations and interpretations of the Plan made by the Plan
Administrator shall be final, binding, and conclusive for all purposes under the
Plan. The Plan Administrator may prescribe forms for participants to take action
authorized or allowed under the Plan and may appoint agents and consult legal
counsel and other professionals to assist in administration of the Plan. The
Plan Administrator may, in his or her sole discretion, adjust the value of a
deferred compensation account on a basis other than as prescribed in deferral or
reallocation elections, including but not limited to the use of investment
tracking funds other than those selected by the participant.

INVESTMENT TRACKING FUNDS - ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

Each investment tracking fund mirrors the performance of the actual fund or
index it respectively tracks. Following are descriptions and performance data
for the actual funds and indexes.

There is no guarantee that any of the funds will achieve its objectives or
increase in value. Unless you choose the investment tracking fund for the
MetLife SIP Fixed Income Fund, your deferrals may lose value. Each actively
managed fund has investment management fees and/or other expenses associated
with it. The descriptions below are derived from information provided by the
funds or other sources deemed to be reliable.

ACTIVELY MANAGED FUNDS

METLIFE SIP FIXED INCOME FUND: This fund is an individually managed separate
account available under a Metropolitan Life Insurance Company group annuity
contract. The fund seeks to achieve the highest possible current income
consistent with the preservation of capital and predictable growth through a
stable interest rate by investing in Guaranteed Interest Contract Alternatives
or similar contracts.

LORD ABBETT BOND DEBENTURE FUND: This fund (the Lord Abbett Bond Debenture
Portfolio of the Met Investor Series Trust) is a mutual fund investment choice
available under various variable insurance contracts issued by Metropolitan Life
Insurance Company and its affiliates. The fund seeks to provide high current
income and the opportunity for capital appreciation to produce a high total
return. Under normal circumstances, the fund invests at least 80% of its net
assets in debt securities. The fund normally invests substantially all of its
assets in high-yield and investment-grade debt securities. It may invest in
convertible securities. Up to 80% of the fund's assets may be invested in
high-yield/high-risk debt securities ("junk bonds"). At least 20% of the fund's
assets must be invested in any combination of investment-grade debt securities,
U.S. Government securities and cash equivalents. The fund may also invest up to
20% of its net assets in equity securities of large cap companies. The fund may
also invest up to 20% of its net assets in foreign debt and equity securities.
(1,3)

                                                                         Page 10

OAKMARK FUND(R): This fund is a mutual fund and seeks to achieve long-term
capital appreciation following a value style by investing primarily in the
common stocks of U.S. companies.

METLIFE SIP SMALL COMPANY STOCK FUND: This fund is an individually managed
separate account available under a Metropolitan Life Insurance Company group
annuity contract. The fund seeks to achieve long-term growth of capital by
investing in the stocks of smaller U.S. companies with strong growth potential
and to outperform the Russell 2000(R) Growth Index. This index measures the
performance of Russell 2000 companies with higher price-to-book ratios and
higher forecasted growth values.(2)

OAKMARK INTERNATIONAL FUND: This fund is a mutual fund and seeks to achieve
long-term capital appreciation following a value style by investing primarily in
the common stocks of non-U.S. companies in mature and less-developed markets.
There are no limits on the geographic asset distribution, but the fund does not
expect to invest more than 5% of its assets in securities of companies in
emerging markets.(3)

MARKET INDEXES

S&P 500(R)INDEX: This index includes some of the 500 largest capitalized stocks
in the U.S. and is one of the most widely recognized used benchmarks of U.S.
equity performance. Stocks that are not included among the 500 largest are
included in the index for diversification purposes.

RUSSELL 2000(R)INDEX: This index measures stock performance of 2,000 smaller
U.S. companies with market capitalization under $1.3 billion.(2)

NASDAQ COMPOSITE(R)INDEX: The Nasdaq Composite Index measures all Nasdaq
domestic and international-based common-type stocks listed on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. The Nasdaq Composite includes over 4,000 companies. (3, 4)

MSCI EAFE(R)INDEX: The Morgan Stanley Capital International Europe, Australasia,
Far East Index is a benchmark of developed stock market performance, excluding
the United States and Canada.(3)

LEHMAN BROTHERS(R) AGGREGATE BOND INDEX: A benchmark index comprised of the
Lehman Brothers Government/Credit Bond Index, the Lehman Brothers
Mortgage-Backed Securities Index, the Lehman Brothers Asset-Backed Securities
Index and the Lehman Brothers Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities Index. Fixed
income securities in the index include debt obligations issued or guaranteed by
the U.S. government or its agencies and instrumentalities, debt issued or
guaranteed by U.S. corporations, foreign companies, municipalities, asset-backed
government and international agencies and mortgage-backed securities.

                                                                         Page 11

MERRILL LYNCH US HIGH YIELD MASTER II INDEX: The Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield
Master II Index tracks the performance of below investment-grade U.S.
dollar-denominated corporate bonds publicly issued in the U.S. domestic market.
(1)

MSCI EMF INDEX(SM): The MSCI EMF (Emerging Markets Free) Index is designed to
measure equity market performance in global emerging markets. As of April 2002,
the MSCI EMF Index consisted of the following 26 emerging market country
indices: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, Czech Republic, Egypt,
Hungary, India, Indonesia, Israel, Jordan, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco,
Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Russia, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand,
Turkey and Venezuela.(3)

SINGLE-STOCK FUND

METLIFE COMMON STOCK FUND: The performance of this fund will depend on the price
of MetLife, Inc. common stock, which is affected by market conditions and other
factors, such as declared dividends. Like other individual stock funds, the
MetLife Common Stock Fund is anticipated to have a relatively high risk profile.
The performance of this fund includes the value of reinvested dividends, if any.

- ----------

(1) Lower rated high-yield, high-risk securities generally involve more credit
risk. These securities also may be subject to greater market price fluctuations
than lower yielding higher rated debt.

(2) Investments in small capitalization and emerging growth companies involve
greater than average risk. Such securities may have limited marketability and
the issues may have limited product lines, markets and financial resources. The
value of such investments may fluctuate more widely than investments in larger,
more established companies.

(3)International stocks contain additional risks that are not associated with
U.S. domestic issues, such as changes in currency exchange rates, different
governmental regulations, economic conditions and accounting standards.

(4)This index is comprised to a significant degree in technology issues. The
technology industry can be significantly affected by obsolescence, short product
cycles, falling profits and prices, and competition from new market
participants. A choice that is weighted in one sector is more volatile than
those that diversify across many industry sectors.

                                                                         Page 12

HISTORIC FUND & INDEX PERFORMANCE BY CALENDAR YEAR
                            As of September 30, 2003

Past performance is not a guarantee of future results. Note: Unit values
fluctuate and amounts received upon distribution may be more or less than
deferrals and any matching contributions.

- ----------

(1) MetLife SIP Fixed Income Fund has declared that its rate for 2003 is 5.00%.
Both the MetLife SIP Fixed Income Fund and Small Company Stock Fund are
individually managed separate accounts available under Metropolitan Life
Insurance Company group annuity contracts. All performance is shown net of
investment management fees and other expenses.

(2) The Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Fund (Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Portfolio of
the Met Investors Series Trust) is a mutual fund investment choice available
under various variable insurance contracts issued by Metropolitan Life Insurance
Company and its affiliates. The Loomis Sayles High Yield Bond Portfolio of the
Metropolitan Series Fund was merged into the Lord Abbett Bond Debenture
Portfolio after the close of business on April 26, 2002. Performance for the
Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Portfolio includes performance of the Loomis Sayles
High Yield Bond Portfolio prior to April 27, 2002, and performance of the Lord
Abbett Debenture Portfolio after April 26, 2002. All performance is shown net of
the Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Portfolio's investment management fees and other
expenses.

(3) The Oakmark Fund and the Oakmark International Fund are mutual funds. All
performance is shown net of investment management fees and other expenses.

(4) Performance data for all years are based on the records of Nonqualified Plan
Services (NQPS), except 2001, which is from a public source.

(5) Performance data for 2002 is based on the records of NQPS. All other data
are from public sources.

(6) Performance data are based on the records of NQPS.

(7) Performance data are based on information from a public source.

(8) Performance data obtained from MetLife, Inc. 2000 performance is shown from
April 5, 2000, the date of the Initial Public Offering. The performance data
provided here for all periods presented includes the reinvestment of dividends.

                                                                         Page 13

PROSPECTUS INFORMATION

In connection with the obligations of MetLife, Inc. under the Plan, the
following constitute the prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10(a) of
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended:

1.   The information set forth in this Program Description;

2.   Any other written documents delivered to participants updating or revising
     the information in item 1 above. Those documents will contain a legend
     indicating that they constitute a part of the prospectus covering the
     obligations being offered as permitted by the Plan;

3.   Each of the following documents filed by MetLife, Inc. with the Securities
     and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"), which are incorporated by
     reference in this prospectus:

     a)   MetLife, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
          31, 2002;

     b)   All other reports filed by MetLife, Inc. with the Commission pursuant
          to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
          amended, since December 31, 2002; and

     c)   All documents subsequently filed by MetLife, Inc. pursuant to Sections
          13(a), 13(c), 14 and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
          amended, prior to the filing of a post-effective amendment which
          indicates that all securities offered have been sold or which
          de-registers all securities then remaining unsold.

You may obtain a copy of the above filings described in items 1 and 2, at no
cost, by calling Nonqualified Plan Services at 1-877-855-6777. Filings described
in item 3 and any other documents MetLife, Inc. provides to its shareholders may
be obtained, at no cost, at www.metlife.com (by clicking on Investor Relations)
or by calling 1-800-649-3593. You may also request copies of any of the above
documents by writing to the MetLife Corporate Secretary, 1 Madison Avenue, New
York, NY 10010.

                                                                         Page 14

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Plan Administrator has executed this amended and
restated this MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors,
effective December 9, 2003.

PLAN ADMINISTRATOR

/s/ James N. Heston
- -------------------------
James N. Heston

Date: 12/12/03
- -------------------

Witness: /s/ Teresa Porochnia
         ----------------------------

                                                                         Page 15

</EX-10.48>

<EX-10.53>
 9
 y74655exv10w53.htm
 EX-10.53: NON-MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

exv10w53 

Exhibit 10.53

The MetLife Non-Management Director 
Deferred Compensation Plan 

Program Description and Plan Document 
December 2008

Important Notices 

This Program Description provides an overview of the MetLife Non-Management
Director Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Plan ). It is also the official plan
document that legally governs the Plan. This Plan document will govern in
every respect and instance, and replaces and supersedes prior Plan documents.

This Program Description may be updated from time to time to implement changes
in the Plan. Fund performance data will be updated periodically. These
updates will constitute part of the Prospectus distributed with respect to the
Plan.

The Plan Administrator may amend, alter or terminate the Plan in accordance
with its terms at any time and for any reason.

The Plan was effective on January 1, 2005, and the Plan will continue in effect
until it is amended, suspended, or terminated according to its terms.

This Plan was designed to replace the MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for
Outside Directors and Article VII of the MetLife, Inc. 2000 Directors Stock
Plan, respectively, beginning with 2005 compensation deferrals; earlier
deferrals will remain governed by the earlier plans.

MetLife, Inc. will have the obligation to pay amounts deferred under the Plan.
MetLife, Inc. s obligations are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended. Since this is an unfunded plan, your rights or claims against assets
or property are no greater than those of a general unsecured creditor of
MetLife, Inc.

Your deferrals may gain or lose value over time; see  Investment Tracking For
Your Deferred Cash Accounts  and  MetLife Deferred Stock Accounts  below.
Shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock paid under the Plan may be shares of
treasury common stock, authorized but unissued common stock, or shares obtained
on the open market.

This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities 
that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 
The date of this document is December 2008. 

Page 2  

MetLife Non-Management Director Deferred Compensation Plan 
Plan At-a-Glance 

Purpose 

To provide eligible directors with the opportunity to defer their cash and
MetLife Stock compensation, thereby deferring payment of federal and most state
income taxes on such compensation. 

Eligibility 

Directors of MetLife, Inc. who are not employees of MetLife, Inc. or any of its
affiliates. 

Election Options 

Deferral amount 

Investment tracking funds (for cash deferrals) 

Distribution date 

Number of distribution payments 

Annual Enrollment  
Period for Incumbent  Directors 

Eligible Directors will be notified of the annual enrollment in the calendar
year before deferrals begin. 

Enrollment Period  
for New Directors 

Newly-appointed directors may make a deferral election for fees payable in the
calendar year in which they are elected, but must generally do so by the
 earlier of : 

the day before the first Directors meeting after appointment or, 

the 30 th  day after appointment. 

Investment Tracking 

The value of your deferred cash compensation accounts will fluctuate daily
based on the performance of the investment tracking funds and indices you
select. 

Investment Tracking  
Fund Changes 

Limited to a total of six times per year for future deferrals and existing
account balances. 

Changes in Amounts  
Deferred 

None allowed, except for hardship. 

Form of Distribution 

Your deferred cash compensation will be paid in cash at the end of the deferral
period. Your deferred awards of MetLife Stock will be paid in the form of such
stock, with imputed reinvested dividends, at the end of the deferral period. 

Distribution: 

Number 

Lump-sum payment or up to 15 annual installments. 

Timing 

Beginning upon earlier of 60 days after termination of service as a director or
on a designated future date. 

Hardship 

Immediate lump-sum payment (availability strictly limited). 

Changes to
Distribution Date
and/or Number of
Payments 

You may change the distribution date to a date at least five years later than
the date you originally selected, and/or change the number of payments. Your
change will only be effective if you submit your request no later than one year
before the earlier of the end of your service as a director or the distribution
date you originally selected. 

Taxes 

Deferred compensation is taxable as ordinary income at the time of distribution. 

Rollover to an IRA, qualified plan or nonqualified plan is not permitted. 

Beneficiary 

Upon your death, any existing account balances will be paid to your designated
beneficiary or beneficiaries in a lump sum. 

Plan Funding 

The Plan is a nonqualified, unfunded plan. Your accounts are maintained for
recordkeeping purposes only. 

Page 3  

MetLife Non-Management Director Deferred Compensation Plan 

The MetLife Non-Management Director Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) allows eligible
directors to defer receiving a portion of their fees payable in cash or shares of MetLife, Inc.
common stock ( MetLife Stock ) for services in 2005 and thereafter, thereby deferring payment of
federal and most state income taxes until a later date when the deferred payments are received.
Participation in the Plan is completely voluntary.

The Plan is a nonqualified plan that is unfunded and subject to the risks described in this
document. Amounts credited to an account are solely for recordkeeping purposes. The Plan is not
subject to protection under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA).

Eligibility 

Members of the Board of Directors of MetLife, Inc. (the  Board ) who are not employees of MetLife,
Inc. or any of its affiliates ( Non-Management Directors ) are eligible to participate. In this
Program Description,  you  refers to a director who is eligible to participate in the Plan.

Making a Deferral Election 

Incumbent Directors    Prior to each year in which you receive fees for services you provide as a
Non-Management Director, you may defer all or a portion of the fees payable as compensation for
such services. Designations do not carry over from year to year; you must make a new designation
each year.

New Directors    In general, you may defer all or a portion of your fees for services in the
calendar year you are appointed to the Board by submitting a deferral election by the  earlier of :

the day before the first Directors meeting following your appointment or, 

the thirtieth (30 th ) day after your appointment. 

If a Directors meeting occurs before the thirtieth (30 th ) day after your appointment and
before you have filed a deferral election, then, at the discretion of the Plan Administrator, you
may defer a prorated portion of your fees. The proration will be determined according to the
number of scheduled meetings for the year of your appointment. You must submit your deferral
election no later than the thirtieth (30 th ) day after your appointment.

All Directors 

To defer your cash compensation, you need to complete a deferral election form specifying:

The percentage of your cash fees you want deferred into a Deferred Cash Account (if you
choose to defer any of your cash fees, your deferral must equal at least $10,000); 

The investment tracking funds that will be used to adjust the value of that Deferred Cash
Account; and 

Page 4  

A future distribution date and number of payments for that Deferred Cash Account (paid in
cash). 

To defer your MetLife Stock compensation, you need to complete a deferral election form specifying:

The percentage of your MetLife Stock fees you want deferred into a MetLife Deferred Stock
Account; and 

The future distribution date and number of payments for your MetLife Deferred Stock
Account. 

Your deferral election form must be submitted during the enrollment period. If you submit an
election form that does not specify when payment is to be made, payment will be made upon the
termination of your service as a Non-Management Director. If you submit an election form that does
not specify the number of installments in which payment should be made, payment will be made in a
single lump sum.

Before making your elections, you may wish to consult a tax or personal financial advisor regarding
all of the ramifications of deferral of compensation under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and
all other requirements under law for deferral of income taxation ( Legal Deferral Requirements ).

All deferrals are subject to the terms of this Plan.

Income Taxes 

Deferred compensation is not subject to current taxation under federal and most state income tax
laws at the time it is deferred. However, income and self-employment taxes will be due at the
time payment is made. Consult your financial advisor with any questions regarding how and when
you should make payment of your tax obligations arising from payments under the Plan. Note that
amounts payable under the Plan may not be rolled-over into an IRA, qualified plan or another
nonqualified plan.

Neither MetLife, Inc. nor any of its affiliates will be entitled to claim a tax deduction for any
compensation (plus earnings) the payment of which is deferred under the terms of this Plan until
the taxable period in which the payments are includible in the taxable income of a participant.
The deduction can be claimed only in the amount that such income is included in such participant s
income.

Deferral Amounts 

During the annual enrollment period, you may elect to defer all or a portion of your fees payable
in the following year for services as a director of MetLife, Inc. If you choose to defer any of
your cash fees, you must defer at least $10,000.

Once you elect your deferral amount, you may not change it. You may, however, suspend deferrals in
cases of extreme hardship as provided in the Plan. See  Hardship Exceptions,  below.

Page 5  

Deferred Compensation Accounts 

If you defer any or all of your cash compensation, a Deferred Cash Account in your name for that
year s deferrals will be established for recordkeeping purposes. If you defer any of your MetLife
Stock compensation, a MetLife Deferred Stock Account in your name for that year s deferrals will be
established for recordkeeping purposes. You will receive account statements annually.

Your accounts will be credited effective on the date on which your fees would have been payable had
you not elected to defer receipt of such fees.

Investment Tracking For Your Deferred Cash Accounts 

Investment tracking funds are used as a device for adjusting the value of your Deferred Cash
Accounts, from the time contributions are made until the time payments are made from your Deferred
Cash Accounts, based on fund performance.

Each investment tracking fund reflects the investment returns of the actual fund or index,
including any management fees and/or other expenses that apply to the actual fund. Returns are
measured each day the relevant stock exchange is open. Your account will fluctuate based on the
fund s performance (gains or losses) in effect  mirroring  the performance of the specified fund or
index, determined on a Total Return basis.  Total Return  reflects the change (plus or minus) in
price or value, plus dividends (if any) on a reinvested basis. Your deferred cash account will not
actually be invested in the funds. If the aggregate performance of the funds mirrored by the
investment tracking funds you choose is positive, the value of your account will increase; if it is
negative, the value of your account will decrease.

You may change your investment tracking funds   either with regard to future deferrals or your
existing account   at any time during the year by accessing the Plan s website or by calling the
participant service center. However, you may make no more than six changes per year. For this
purpose, all changes submitted on the same day will count as a single change. You can elect to
track your account against one or more of the investment tracking funds, and fund allocations must
be made in multiples of 5%. If you have provided your e-mail address, you will receive
confirmation of your changes shortly after they are made.

Under MetLife s Insider Trading Policy, active Directors are required to obtain pre-clearance from
the MetLife Corporate Secretary before transferring funds into or out of the MetLife Common Stock
Fund or changing the percentage of future deferred fees that will be allocated to the MetLife
Common Stock Fund.

Detailed information about the available investment tracking funds will be provided to you. This
will include descriptions and historic performance. The Plan Administrator may change, eliminate
or replace any investment tracking fund or index at any time. When the Plan Administrator has
determined to make a change, you will be informed and you will be given an opportunity to change
your investment tracking selections to the extent they are affected by the change.

Page 6  

MetLife Deferred Stock Accounts 

Your MetLife Deferred Stock Accounts will reflect the number of shares of MetLife Stock you
deferred, plus imputed reinvested dividends (on the same basis as such dividends are paid on actual
shares of MetLife Stock).

The value of your MetLife Deferred Stock Account will depend on the price of MetLife Stock, which
is affected by market conditions and other factors, such as declared dividends. As a result, the
value of your MetLife Deferred Stock Account is anticipated to have a relatively high risk profile.

Your MetLife Deferred Stock Accounts will be appropriately adjusted (as determined by the
Governance Committee of the Board, or its successor) in the event of any MetLife Stock dividend,
MetLife Stock split, recapitalization (including, but not limited, to the payment of an
extraordinary dividend), merger, consolidation, combination, or spin-off affecting MetLife, Inc.
capitalization, distribution of MetLife, Inc. assets to holders of MetLife Stock (other than
ordinary cash dividends), exchange of shares, or other similar corporate change.

The performance of MetLife Deferred Stock Account will be identical to that of the MetLife Common
Stock Fund, and is labeled the  MetLife Deferred Shares Fund  in the  Total Return Historic Fund  
Index Performance by Calendar Year  chart.

Distribution Dates 

For each of your Deferred Cash Accounts and your MetLife Deferred Stock Accounts, you may choose to
have your distributions begin either (1) on a specific date no less than three years after the year
of deferral, or (2) upon the termination of your service as a Non-Management Director of MetLife,
Inc. (the date of your termination of service will be determined in accordance with Legal Deferral
Requirements). If you choose to receive your account on a specific date, your account will be paid
to you on the earlier of (a) the date you selected, or (b) on the date of the termination of your
service as a director.

Once you have designated a distribution date, you cannot change it except as described below under
 Changing the Distribution Date And/Or Number of Payments. 

Number of Payments 

You may elect to receive each of your account balances in either a lump-sum payment or up to 15
annual installments. For each of your Deferred Cash Accounts, each annual installment will be a
fraction of the account s cash value with one being the numerator and the number of payments
remaining being the denominator. For each of your MetLife Deferred Stock Accounts, each annual
installment will be a fraction of the number of shares of MetLife Stock represented in the account,
with one being the numerator and the number of payments remaining being the denominator and
disregarding any fraction of a share until the last installment. For example, if you elect to
receive 10 annual payments, the first payment is equal to 1/10 th  of the account; the
second payment is equal to 1/9 th  of the account; and so on until final payment is made.
For purposes of Legal Deferral Requirements, any payment option selected under this plan will be
considered to be a single payment form of benefit.

Page 7  

Form of Payments 

All payments from your Deferred Cash Accounts (including portions invested in the MetLife Common
Stock Fund) will be made in cash. All payments from your MetLife Deferred Stock Account will be
made in MetLife Stock, except that fractional shares will be paid in cash at the Closing Price of
MetLife Stock on the date of payment. * 

Changing the Distribution Date And/Or Number of Payments 

For each of your Deferred Cash Account and your MetLife Deferred Stock Account for a given year,
you may make changes only once, at which time you may change either or both: (1) the date you have
selected to receive payment of your deferred compensation to a date at least five (5) years later
than your original selection; and/or (2) the number of payments you have chosen to receive (your
change may increase or decrease the number of payments). You must make all changes to any
particular account at the same time;  provided, however , that your changes are only
effective if you submit them no later than one year before the earlier of the original date you had
selected for payment or the date your service as a Non-Management Director ends, and otherwise will
not be effective .  All changes will be effective to the extent consistent with Legal Deferral
Requirements.

Payment to Beneficiaries 

If you die before your distributions begin or are completed, the balance in your accounts will be
paid as a single lump sum to your beneficiary. If you have not designated a beneficiary, or your
beneficiary (or beneficiaries) die(s) before you do, the balance in your accounts will be paid to
your estate.

You may designate an individual, entity, trustee, or your estate as your beneficiary, and you may
change your beneficiary at any time. Each beneficiary designation will apply to all of your
deferrals under the Plan, and will supersede your previous beneficiary designations. Unless or
until you submit a new beneficiary designation form, your last beneficiary designation (if any)
under the MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors (or, if you have not designated
a beneficiary under that plan, the beneficiary you have designated under the MetLife, Inc. 2000
Directors Stock Plan, if any) will apply under this Plan.

You may update or designate your beneficiary(ies) during each annual enrollment period. If you
wish to change your beneficiary designations during the year you may do so by accessing the Plan
recordkeeper s website or by calling the Participant Service Center.

* 
       
      Closing Price  means the closing price of a share of
MetLife Stock as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting
system for the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other recognized quotation
system on which the trading prices of shares of MetLife Stock are quoted at the
relevant time) on such date. In the event that there are no transactions of
MetLife Stock reported on such tape (or such other system) on such date,
Closing Price shall mean the closing price on the immediately preceding date on
which MetLife Stock transactions were so reported. 

Page 8  

Loans 

No loans may be taken from your accounts.

Hardship Exceptions 

In cases of extreme hardship, and consistent with Legal Deferral Requirements for deferral of
income taxation, the Plan Administrator may suspend deferrals or make payments to you, reducing the
value of your account. However, the total amount suspended and advanced cannot exceed the amount
required to satisfy the financial consequences of the hardship and tax withholding requirements.

Unfunded, Unsecured Obligations of MetLife, Inc. 

Deferrals under the Plan are unfunded and unsecured obligations of MetLife, Inc. Your rights are
those of a general unsecured creditor of MetLife, Inc. The Plan is intended to be designed and
administered in complete accordance with Legal Deferral Requirements, but in no event will MetLife,
Inc., any affiliate, or the Plan be liable for any taxes, penalties, or other losses on account of
the Plan or its administration failing to comply with Legal Deferral Requirements. The total
amount of deferrals under the Plan will depend on participant elections. There are no fees charged
to you for participation in the Plan.

Assignment 

No assignment, hypothecation, or pledge of the right to receive the payment of amounts deferred or
any other rights under the Plan may be made. The Plan does not provide for the creation of a lien
on any account.

Qualified Domestic Relations Orders ( QDROs ) 

Deferred compensation will be distributed or attached to the extent required by a QDRO.

Plan Administrator 

The Plan is administered by a Plan Administrator who may establish, amend or rescind rules and
regulations relating to the Plan. The Plan Administrator of this Plan is also the Plan
Administrator of the Metropolitan Life Retirement Plan for U.S. Employees. The Plan Administrator
acts through an individual who is an employee of an affiliate of MetLife, Inc. and an officer of
one or more affiliates of MetLife, Inc. The Employee Benefits Committee of the Metropolitan Life
Insurance Company appoints the Plan Administrator of the Retirement Plan, who serves until such
time as the Committee appoints a new Plan Administrator.

To the extent consistent with law, including Legal Deferral Requirements, the Plan Administrator
may amend, modify, suspend, or terminate the Plan at any time and for any reason. The Plan
Administrator may not amend, modify or terminate the Plan in a way that will reduce the amount that
has been accrued in your deferred compensation account prior to the effective date of the
amendment, modification or termination.

The determinations and interpretations of the Plan made by the Plan Administrator shall be final,
binding, and conclusive for all purposes under the Plan. The Plan Administrator may

Page 9  

prescribe forms for participants to take action authorized or allowed under the Plan and may
appoint agents and consult legal counsel and other professionals to assist in administration of the
Plan. The Plan Administrator may, in his or her discretion, adjust the value of a deferred
compensation account on a basis other than as prescribed in deferral or reallocation elections,
including but not limited to the use of investment tracking funds other than those selected by the
participant. The Plan Administrator will administer any claims under the Plan by following Section
503 of ERISA, any applicable regulations, and any other procedures the Plan Administrator adopts.

The Plan Administrator may reject or reform a deferral election on any lawful basis, and may
conform any provision of the Plan to Legal Deferral Requirements. Where consistent with such
requirements, the Plan Administrator may pay deferred compensation regardless of the participant s
election for payment at another time.

Additional Information 

Additional information about the Plan will be provided to you from time to time. To the extent
that information is part of a prospectus for the Plan, it will include a notice to that effect.

Page 10  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this MetLife Non-Management Director Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and
restated effective January 1, 2005, is approved.

PLAN ADMINISTRATOR 

/s/ Margery Brittain 

Margery Brittain  

Date: 
     December 9, 2008 

Witness:   
     /s/ Bonita Haskins 

Page 11  

</EX-10.53>

<EX-10.58>
 10
 y74655exv10w58.txt
 EX-10.58: AMENDMENT #1 TO AUXILIARY PENSION PLAN

Exhibit 10.58

                              AMENDMENT # 1 TO THE

                         METLIFE AUXILIARY PENSION PLAN
               (As amended and restated effective January 1, 2008)

     The MetLife Auxiliary Pension Plan is hereby amended, effective October 1,
2008, as follows:

1. Part I, Article 2, Section 2.2 of the Plan is hereby amended by adding the
following after subsection (d):

"(e) holds the title of Chief Auditor, Treasurer, Tax Director, Corporate
Secretary or Chief Actuary of the Company or is subject to the Company's
mandatory retirement policy."

The left-justified language that followed subsection (d) prior to this amendment
(and that now appears after new subsection (e) as added by this amendment), will
be maintained without change

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Amendment to be adopted in
its name and behalf this 24th day of October, 2008, by its officer thereunto
duly authorized.

                                        METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY

By: /s/ Margery Brittain
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Margery Brittain, Plan Administrator

ATTEST:

/s/ Bonita Haskins
- -------------------------------------

1

</EX-10.58>

<EX-10.59>
 11
 y74655exv10w59.txt
 EX-10.59: AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO THE AUXILIARY PENSION PLAN

Exhibit 10.59

AMENDMENT NUMBER TWO TO THE
                         METLIFE AUXILIARY PENSION PLAN
               (As amended and restated effective January 1, 2008)

     The MetLife Auxiliary Pension Plan is hereby amended, except as expressly
provided in any provision below, effective December 31, 2008, as follows:

1. Part I, Article 2, Section 2.2 (c) of the Plan is hereby amended effective
January 1, 2008, to read as follows:

"(c) is listed on Appendix A attached hereto and updated from time to time by
the Plan Administrator."

2. Part I Article 4, Section 4.3 of the Plan is hereby amended by adding a new
subsection (c) to read as follows:

"(c) A Commissioned Employee who becomes a Participant in this Plan after
     attaining both age 60 and Benefit Eligibility will have benefits
     distributed to him/her as soon as administratively practicable after the
     October 1st of the year following the fifth anniversary of the date on
     which he/she commenced participation in this Plan."

The remaining paragraphs in Section 4.3 of the plan shall be re-designated
accordingly.

3. Part I, Article 4, Section 4.7, the first paragraph of the Section, preceding
subsection (a) is hereby amended as follows:

"Except as described in (a) through (e) immediately below, Grandfathered
Benefits shall be payable in the same form(s) and at the same times as benefits
are payable under the Retirement Plan. The specific provisions that govern
payment and calculation of Grandfathered benefits can be found in Part II of
this Plan."

4. Part I, Article 4A, Section 4A.3, the second paragraph is hereby amended to
read as follows:

"A form requesting that Grandfathered Benefits under this Plan be paid in the
form of an Alternative Distribution must be made in accordance with the
requirements of this paragraph. The form must be submitted by the Participant to
the Committee no later than the day before the Participant's Retirement date.
For Participants who are separating from service with the Company or an Employer
before they are Benefit Eligible, the form requesting an Alternative
Distribution must be submitted by the Participant to the Committee no later than
12 months before the Distribution Date indicated on the election form. All
requests must be in writing, signed by the Participant, and follow the format
prescribed by the Committee. On the request form the Participant must also
designate (i) the mode of payment requested and (ii) the Participant's
Retirement or Distribution Date. A request form shall be deemed submitted by the
Participant to the Committee on the day that such form is received by the
Committee. Prior to the Participant's Retirement date, the request form can be
revoked by the Participant. Any

1

revocation must be in writing and comply with the procedures of the Committee. A
request form submitted by the Participant shall become irrevocable and binding
as to all elections and designations made by the Participant as of the
Retirement date. In the event that a Participant's request form is not filed
before his/her Retirement date, the Participant's Grandfathered Benefits will be
paid in the same form as the benefits paid to the Participant under the
Retirement Plan. For Participants who separate from service before they are
Benefit Eligible, the request form shall become irrevocable and binding, as to
all elections and designations, 12 months before the Distribution Date."

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Amendment to be adopted in
its name and behalf this 12th day of December, 2008, by its officer
thereunto duly authorized.

                                        METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY

By: /s/ Margery Brittain
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Margery Brittain, Plan Administrator

ATTEST:

/s/ Bonita Haskins
- -------------------------------------

2

Appendix A

             LIST OF ADDITIONAL INDIVIDUALS COVERED UNDER THIS PLAN
                              AS OF JANUARY 1, 2008

The following additional individuals are grandfathered as Participants under
Section 2.2 of this Plan:

     Anthony E. Amodeo
     Oliver N. Greeves
     Sibyl C. Jacobson
     Leonard S. Kasendorf
     William D. Kerrigan
     Alan E. Lazarescu
     Richard J. Leist
     Fred Magaletta
     John F. Rao
     Felix Schirripa
     Anthony F. Trani

3

</EX-10.59>

<EX-10.69>
 12
 y74655exv10w69.txt
 EX-10.69: AMENDMENT NO. 18 TO THE MPTA

Exhibit 10.69

                          AMENDMENT NUMBER EIGHTEEN TO
             THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS

THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS (the "Plan") is hereby
amended as follows, effective as of the dates set forth below:

     1.   Effective May 30, 2008, the Plan is hereby amended by adding the
          following sentence at the end of the first paragraph of subsection
          1.4.19 to read as follows:

          "'Service' shall also mean the whole number of the Employee's
          completed years of employment with the following entity or any of its
          affiliates immediately prior to the closing of the acquisition of all
          or a portion of the stock or assets of such entity by the Company,
          Subsidiary or an Affiliate, as reflected in the records of such
          acquired entity immediately prior to such closing:

               (i)  EverBank Reverse Mortgage, LLC."

     2.   Effective September 1, 2008, the Plan is hereby amended by restating
          the final sentence of the first paragraph of subsection 1.4.19 to read
          as follows:

          "'Service' shall also mean the whole number of the Employee's
          completed years of employment with the following entities or any of
          such entities' affiliates immediately prior to the closing of the
          acquisition of all or a portion of the stock or assets of such
          entities by the Company, Subsidiary or an Affiliate, as reflected in
          the records of such acquired entities immediately prior to such
          closing:

               (i)  EverBank Reverse Mortgage, LLC

               (ii) First Horizon Home Loans, an operating division of First
                    Tennessee Bank National Association."

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this amendment to be executed by an
officer thereunto duly authorized on the date noted below the officer's
signature.

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY

By: /s/ Debra Capolarello
    ---------------------------------
Name/Title: Debra Capolarello SVP
            -------------------------
Date:  8-13-08
      -------------------------------
Witness: /s/ Lucida Bullard
         ----------------------------

</EX-10.69>

<EX-10.70>
 13
 y74655exv10w70.txt
 EX-10.70: AMENDMENT NO. 19 TO THE MPTA

Exhibit 10.70

AMENDMENT NUMBER NINETEEN TO
             THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS

THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS (the "Plan") is hereby
amended as follows, effective as of the dates set forth below:

     1.   Section 10.3 of the Plan is hereby amended by deleting "or 2007" each
          time it appears therein and replacing it in each such instance with ",
          2007, 2008 or 2009."

     2.   This amendment shall be effective as of January 1, 2008.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this amendment to be executed by an
officer thereunto duly authorized on the date noted below the officer's
signature.

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY

By: /s/ Lynne E. DiStasio
    ---------------------------------
Name/Title: Lynne E. DiStasio, V.P.
            -------------------------
Date:  12/8/08
      -------------------------------

Witness: /s/ Lucida Plummer
         ----------------------------

</EX-10.70>

<EX-10.71>
 14
 y74655exv10w71.txt
 EX-10.71: AMENDMENT NO. 20 TO THE MPTA

Exhibit 10.71

AMENDMENT NUMBER TWENTY TO
             THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS

THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS (the "Plan") is hereby
amended as follows, effective as of the dates set forth below:

     1.   Section 1.4.21 of the Plan is hereby amended by adding the following
          new subsidiary at the end of the list therein and to be lettered
          accordingly:

          "SafeGuard Health Plans, Inc., a California Corporation."

     2.   The Plan is hereby amended by restating the final sentence of the
          first paragraph of subsection 1.4.19 to read as follows:

          "'Service' shall also mean the whole number of the Employee's
          completed years of employment with the following entities or any of
          such entities' affiliates immediately prior to the closing of the
          acquisition of all or a portion of the stock or assets of such
          entities by the Company, Subsidiary or an Affiliate, as reflected in
          the records of such acquired entities immediately prior to such
          closing:

          (i)  EverBank Reverse Mortgage, LLC

          (ii) First Horizon Home Loans, an operating division of First
               Tennessee Bank National Association

          (iii) SafeGuard Health Plans, Inc., a California Corporation."

     3.   This amendment shall be effective as of January 1, 2009.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Subsidiary below (solely with respect to
paragraph 1 above) have caused this amendment to be executed by an officer
thereunto duly authorized on the date noted below the officer's signature.

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY     SAFEGUARD HEALTH PLANS, INC.
                                        A CALIFORNIA CORPORATION

By: /s/ Lynne E. DiStasio               By: /s/ Michael Schwartz
    ---------------------------------       ------------------------------------
Name/Title: Lynne E. DiStasio, VP       Name/Title: Michael Schwartz, President
            -------------------------               ----------------------------
Date: 12/8/08                           Date: December 16, 2008
      -------------------------------         ----------------------------------

Witness: /s/ Lucida Plummer             Witness: /s/ Illegible
         ----------------------------            -------------------------------

</EX-10.71>

<EX-10.72>
 15
 y74655exv10w72.txt
 EX-10.72: AMENDMENT NO. 21 TO THE MPTA

Exhibit 10.72

AMENDMENT NUMBER TWENTY-ONE TO
             THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS

THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS (the "Plan") is hereby
amended as follows, effective as of the dates set forth below:

     1.   Section 1.4.05(b)(1) of the Plan is hereby amended by adding the
          following phrase at the end thereof to read as follows:

          "; provided, however, that the transfer of any Employee from MetLife
          Group, Inc. to Texas Life Insurance Company pursuant to the Stock
          Purchase Agreement for the sale of the stock of Cova Corporation to
          Wilton Re U.S. Holdings, Inc. or a wholly owned subsidiary thereof
          shall be considered a Discontinuance of Employment but only if (i) the
          sale of the stock of Cova Corporation to Wilton Re U.S. Holdings, Inc.
          or a wholly owned subsidiary thereof closes before April 1, 2009 and
          (ii) such Employee is employed by Texas Life Insurance Company
          continuously from the date of the transfer through the date of the
          closing of the above-referenced sale."

     2.   This amendment shall be effective for the period of December 1, 2008
          through June 30, 2009 at which time the provision in paragraph 1 above
          shall cease to have effect.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this amendment to be executed by an
officer thereunto duly authorized on the date noted below the officer's
signature.

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY

By: /s/ Lynne E. DiStasio
    -----------------------------------------
Name/Title: Lynne E. DiStasio, Vice-President
            ---------------------------------
Date: Dec. 18, 2008
      ---------------------------------------

Witness: /s/ Lucida Plummer
         ------------------------------------

</EX-10.72>

<EX-12.1>
 16
 y74655exv12w1.htm
 EX-12.1: STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

EX-12.1 

Exhibit 12.1

MetLife, Inc. 
Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 17
 y74655exv21w1.htm
 EX-21.1: SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

EX-21.1 

Exhibit 21.1

METLIFE,
INC.  
As of December 31, 2008

Wholly-Owned Active Subsidiaries 1  

23RD STREET INVESTMENTS, INC. (DE) 
85 BROAD STREET LLC (CT) 
334 MADISON EURO INVESTMENTS, INC. (DE) 
500 GRANT STREET GP LLC (DE) 
500 GRANT STREET ASSOCIATES LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (CT) 
ALTERNATIVE FUEL I, LLC (DE) 
BEST MARKET S.A. (ARGENTINA) 
BOND TRUST ACCOUNT A (MA) 
CITYPOINT HOLDINGS II LIMITED (UK) 
COMPANIA PREVISIONAL METLIFE S.A. (BRAZIL) 
CONVENT STATION EURO INVESTMENTS FOUR COMPANY (UK) 
CORPORATE REAL ESTATE HOLDINGS, LLC (DE) 
CORRIGAN TLP LLC (DE) 
COVA CORPORATION (MO) 
COVA LIFE MANAGEMENT COMPANY (DE) 
CRB CO., INC. (MA) 
ECONOMY FIRE   CASUALTY COMPANY (IL) 
ECONOMY PREFERRED INSURANCE COMPANY (IL) 
ECONOMY PREMIER ASSURANCE COMPANY (IL) 
ENTERPRISE GENERAL INSURANCE AGENCY, INC. (DE) 
ENTRECAP REAL ESTATE II LLC (DE) 
EXETER REASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD. (BERMUDA) 
EURO CL INVESTMENTS, LLC (DE) 
EURO TI INVESTMENTS LLC (DE) 
EURO TL INVESTMENTS LLC (DE) 
FEDERAL FLOOD CERTIFICATION CORP (TX) 
FIRST METLIFE INVESTORS INSURANCE COMPANY (NY) 
FUNDACION METLIFE MEXICO, A.C. (MEXICO) 
GA HOLDING CORP. (MA) 
GENAMERICA CAPITAL I (DE) 
GENAMERICA FINANCIAL, LLC (MO) 
GENAMERICA MANAGEMENT CORPORATION (MO) 
KRISMAN, INC. (MO) 
GENERAL AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (MO) 
GREENWICH STREET INVESTMENTS, L.L.C. (DE) 
GREENWICH STREET CAPITAL OFFSHORE FUND, LTD (VIRGIN ISLANDS) 
GREENWICH STREET INVESTMENTS, L.P. (DE) 
HEADLAND-PACIFIC PALISADES, LLC (CA) 
HEADLAND PROPERTIES ASSOCIATES (CA) 
HOUSING FUND MANAGER, LLC (DE) 
HYATT LEGAL PLANS, INC. (DE) 
HYATT LEGAL PLANS OF FLORIDA, INC. (FL) 
HPZ ASSETS LLC (DE) 
MET1 SIEFORE, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO)

1  
       
     Does not include real estate joint ventures and
partnerships of which MetLife, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries is an investment
partner. 

MET2 SIEFORE, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO) 
MET3 SIEFORE BASICA, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO) 
MET4 SIEFORE, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO) 
MET5 SIEFORE, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO) 
META SIEFORE ADICIONAL, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO) 
MET AFJP S.A. (ARGENTINA) 
MET P C MANAGING GENERAL AGENCY, INC. (TX) 
MET INVESTORS ADVISORY, LLC (DE) 
METLIFE ADMINISTRADORA DE FUNDOS MULTIPATROCINADOS LTDA. (BRAZIL) 
METLIFE ADVISERS, LLC (MA) 
METLIFE AFORE, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 
METLIFE ASSOCIATES LLC (DE) 
METLIFE ASSURANCE LIMITED (UK) 
METLIFE AUTO   HOME INSURANCE AGENCY, INC. (RI) 
METLIFE BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (USA) 
METLIFE BRASIL PARTICIPACOES LTDA. (BRAZIL) 
METLIFE CANADA/ METVIE CANADA (CANADA) 
METLIFE CANADIAN PROPERTY VENTURES LLC (NY) 
METLIFE CAPITAL CREDIT L.P. (DE) 
METLIFE CAPITAL, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (DE) 
METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST III (DE) 
METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST IV (DE) 
METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST X (DE) 
METLIFE CHILE ADMINISTRADORA DE MUTUOS HIPOTECARIOS S.A. (CHILE) 
METLIFE CHILE INVERSIONES LIMITADA (CHILE) 
METLIFE CHILE SEGUROS DE VIDA S.A. (CHILE) 
METLIFE CREDIT CORP.(DE) 
METLIFE DIRECT CO.,LTD.(JAPAN) 
METLIFE EUROPEAN HOLDINGS, INC. (UK) 
METLIFE EUROPE LIMITED (IRELAND) 
METLIFE EXCHANGE TRUST I (DE) 
METLIFE FUNDING, INC. (DE) 
METLIFE GENERAL INSURANCE AGENCY OF MASSACHUSETTS, INC.(MA) 
METLIFE GENERAL INSURANCE AGENCY OF TEXAS, INC. (DE) 
METLIFE GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED (AUSTRALIA) 
METLIFE GLOBAL, INC. (DE) 
METLIFE GLOBAL OPERATIONS SUPPORT CENTER PRIVATE LIMITED(INDIA) 
METLIFE GROUP, INC. (NY) 
METLIFE HOLDINGS, INC. (DE) 
METLIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF CONNECTICUT (CT) 
METLIFE INSURANCE LIMITED (AUSTRALIA) 
METLIFE INSURANCE LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM) 
METLIFE INSURANCE AND INVESTMENT TRUST (AUSTRALIA) 
METLIFE INSURANCE S.A./NV (BELGIUM) 
METLIFE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS, INC. (DE) 
METLIFE INVESTMENT ADVISORS COMPANY, LLC (DE) 
METLIFE INVESTMENTS ASIA LIMITED (HONG KONG) 
METLIFE INVESTMENT FUNDS SERVICES LLC (NJ) 
METLIFE INVESTMENT FUNDS MANAGEMENT LLC (NJ) 
METLIFE INVESTMENTS LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM) 
METLIFE INVESTMENTS PTY LIMITED (AUSTRALIA) 
METLIFE INVESTORS DISTRIBUTION COMPANY (MO) 
METLIFE INVESTORS GROUP, INC. (DE) 
METLIFE INVESTORS FINANCIAL AGENCY, INC. (TX) 
METLIFE INVESTORS INSURANCE COMPANY (MO) 
METLIFE INVESTORS USA INSURANCE COMPANY (DE) 
METLIFE LATIN AMERICA ASESORIAS E INVERSIONES LIMITADA (CHILE)

METLIFE LIMITED (HONG KONG) 
METLIFE LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM) 
METLIFE MEXICO CARES, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 
METLIFE MEXICO S.A. (MEXICO) 
METLIFE MEXICO SERVICIOS, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 
METLIFE PENSIONS TRUSTEES LIMITED (UK) 
METLIFE PENSIONES MEXICO S.A. (MEXICO) 
METLIFE PLANOS ODONTOLOGICOS LTDA. (BRAZIL) 
METLIFE PRIVATE EQUITY HOLDINGS, LLC (DE) 
METLIFE PROPERTY VENTURES CANADA ULC(CANADA) 
METLIFE PROPERTIES VENTURES, LLC (DE) 
METLIFE REAL ESTATE CAYMAN COMPANY (CAYMAN ISLANDS) 
METLIFE REINSURANCE COMPANY OF CHARLESTON (SC) 
METLIFE REINSURANCE COMPANY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (SC) 
METLIFE REINSURANCE COMPANY OF VERMONT (VT) 
METLIFE RETIREMENT SERVICES LLC (NJ) 
METLIFE SAENGMYOUNG INSURANCE COMPANY LTD. (SOUTH KOREA)- 
(also known as MetLife Insurance Company of Korea Limited) 
METLIFE SECURITIES, INC. (DE) 
METLIFE SEGUROS DE RETIRO S.A. (ARGENTINA) 
METLIFE SEGUROS DE VIDA S.A. (ARGENTINA) 
METLIFE SERVICES EAST PRIVATE LIMITED (INDIA) 
METLIFE SERVICES LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM) 
METLIFE SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS, LLC (DE) 
METLIFE SERVICES (SINGAPORE)PTE LIMITED (AUSTRALIA) 
METLIFE SOLUTIONS PTE. LTD. (SINGAPORE) 
METLIFE STANDBY I, LLC (DE) 
METLIFE TAIWAN INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED (TAIWAN) 
METLIFE TOWER RESOURCES GROUP, INC. (DE) 
METLIFE TOWARZYSTWO UBEZPIECZEN NA ZYCIE POLSKA AKCYJNA (POLAND) 
METLIFE WORLDWIDE HOLDINGS, INC. (DE) 
METPARK FUNDING, INC. (DE) 
METROPOLITAN CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI) 
METROPOLITAN CONNECTICUT PROPERTIES VENTURES, LLC (DE) 
METROPOLITAN DIRECT PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI) 
METROPOLITAN GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY (RI) 
METROPOLITAN GROUP PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI) 
METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (NY) 
METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF HONG KONG LIMITED (HONG KONG) 
METROPOLITAN LIFE SEGUROS DE VIDA S.A. (URUGUAY) 
METROPOLITAN LLOYDS, INC. (TX) 
METROPOLITAN LIFE SEGUROS E PREVID NCIA PRIVADA S.A. (BRAZIL) 
METROPOLITAN MARINE WAY INVESTMENTS LIMITED (CANADA) 
METROPOLITAN PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI) METROPOLITAN REALTY MANAGEMENT, INC. (DE) 
METROPOLITAN REINSURANCE COMPANY (U.K.) LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM) 
METROPOLITAN TOWER LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (DE) 
METROPOLITAN TOWER REALTY COMPANY, INC.(DE) 
MEX DF PROPERTIES, LLC (DE) 
MEZZANINE INVESTMENT LIMITED PARTNERSHIP-BDR (DE) 
MEZZANINE INVESTMENT LIMITED PARTNERSHIP-LG (DE) 
MIDTOWN HEIGHTS, LLC (DE) 
MISSOURI REINSURANCE (BARBADOS), INC. (BARBADOS) 
MLA COMERCIAL, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 
MLA SERVICIOS, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 
ML CAPACITACION COMERCIAL S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 
MLIC ASSET HOLDINGS, LLC. (DE)

MSV IRVINE PROPERTY, LLC (DE) 
MTC FUND I, LLC (DE) 
MTC FUND II, LLC (DE) 
MTC FUND III, LLC (DE) 
MTL LEASING, LLC (DE) 
NATILOPORTEM HOLDINGS, INC. (DE) 
NEW ENGLAND LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (MA) 
NEW ENGLAND SECURITIES CORPORATION (MA) 
NEWBURY INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED (BERMUDA) 
ONE FINANCIAL PLACE CORPORATION (DE) 
ONE MADISON INVESTMENTS (CAYCO) LIMITED (CAYMAN ISLANDS) 
PANTHER VALLEY, INC. (NJ) 
PARK TWENTY THREE INVESTMENTS COMPANY (UNITED KINGDOM) 
PARTNERS TOWER, L.P. (DE) 
PILGRIM ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS OPPORTUNITY FUND I, LLC (DE) 
PILGRIM INVESTMENTS HIGHLAND PARK, LLC (DE) 
PLAZA DRIVE PROPERTIES LLC (DE) 
PLAZA LLC (CT) 
PREFCO IX REALTY LLC (CT) 
PREFCO X HOLDINGS LLC (CT) 
PREFCO XIV HOLDINGS LLC (CT) 
PREFCO DIX-HUIT LLC (CT) 
PREFCO FOURTEEN LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (CT) 
PREFCO TEN LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (CT) 
PREFCO TWENTY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (CT) 
PREFCO VINGT LLC (CT) 
SAFEGUARD DENTAL SERVICES, INC. (DE) 
SAFEGUARD HEATLH ENTERPRISES, INC. (DE) 
SAFEGUARD HEALTH PLANS, INC. (CA) 
SAFEGUARD HEALTH PLANS, INC. (FL) 
SAFEGUARD HEALTH PLANS, INC. (NV) 
SAFEGUARD HEALTH PLANS, INC. (TX) 
SAFEHEALTH LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (CA) 
SERVICIOS ADMINISTRATIVOS GEN, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 
SPECIAL MULTI-ASSET RECEIVABLES TRUST (DELAWARE) 
TEN PARK SPC (CAYMAN ISLANDS) 
TEXAS LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (TX) 
THE PROSPECT COMPANY (DE) 
THORNGATE, LLC (DE) 
TH TOWER LEASING, LLC (DE) 
TH TOWER NGP, LLC (DE) 
THE BUILDING AT 575 LLC (DE 
TIC EUROPEAN REAL ESTATE LP, LLC (DE) 
TLA HOLDINGS LLC (DE) 
TOWER SQUARE SECURITIES, INC. (CT) 
TRAL   CO.(CT) 
TRANSMOUNTAIN LAND   LIVESTOCK COMPANY (MT) 
TRAVELERS INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENTS LTD. (CAYMAN ISLANDS) 
TRIBECA DISTRESSED SECURITIES, L.L.C. (DE) 
WALNUT STREET SECURITIES, INC. (MO) 
WHITE OAK ROYALTY COMPANY (OK)

METLIFE, INC. 
As of December 31, 2008 

Companies of which MetLife, Inc. directly or indirectly has actual ownership (for its own account)
of 10% through 99% of the total  outstanding voting stock 2 

PILGRIM ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS OPPORTUNITY FUND III ASSOCIATES, LLC (67%) (CT) 
LONG TERM CARE PARTNERS, LLC (50%) (DE) 
METLIFE INDIA INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED (26%) (INDIA) 
METROPOLITAN LLOYDS INSURANCE COMPANY OF TEXAS 3  (TX) 
ST. JAMES FLEET INVESTMENTS TWO LIMITED (34%)(CAYMAN ISLANDS)

2  
       
     Does not include real estate joint ventures and
partnerships of which MetLife, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries is an investment
partner. 

3  
       
     Affiliate 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 18
 y74655exv23w1.htm
 EX-23.1: CONSENT OF DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

EX-23.1 

Exhibit 23.1

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-147180,
333-147180-01, 333-147180-02, 333-147180-03, 333-147180-04 and 333-147180-05 on Form S-3 and
333-148024, 333-139384, 333-139383, 333-139382, 333-139380, 333-121344, 333-121343, 333-121342,
333-102306, 333-101291, 333-59134 and 333-37108 on Form S-8 of our report on the consolidated
financial statements and financial statement schedules of MetLife, Inc., and subsidiaries (the
 Company ) dated February 26, 2009 (which expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an
explanatory paragraph regarding changes in the Company s method of accounting for certain assets
and liabilities to a fair value measurement approach as required by accounting guidance adopted on
January 1, 2008, and its method of accounting for deferred acquisition costs and for income taxes
as required by accounting guidance adopted on January 1, 2007) and our report on the effectiveness
of the Company s internal control over financial reporting dated
February 26, 2009, appearing in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2008.

/s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP

New York, New York 
February 26, 2009

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 19
 y74655exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1: CERTIFICATION

EX-31.1 

Exhibit 31.1

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, C. Robert Henrikson, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of MetLife, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15(d)-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which
this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date:
February 27, 2009

/s/ C. Robert Henrikson

C. Robert Henrikson 
Chairman, President and 
 Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 20
 y74655exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2: CERTIFICATION

EX-31.2 

Exhibit 31.2

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, William J. Wheeler, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of MetLife, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15(d)-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which
this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date: 
February 27, 2009

/s/
William J. Wheeler

William J. Wheeler 
Executive Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 21
 y74655exv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1: CERTIFICATION

EX-32.1 

Exhibit 32.1

SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED STATES CODE

I, C. Robert Henrikson, certify that (i) MetLife, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2008 (the  Form 10-K ) fully complies with the requirements of Section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and (ii) the information contained in the
Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of MetLife, Inc.

Date: February 27, 2009

/s/
C. Robert Henrikson

C. Robert Henrikson 
Chairman, President and  
Chief Executive Officer 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to
MetLife, Inc. and will be retained by MetLife, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 22
 y74655exv32w2.htm
 EX-32.2: CERTIFICATION

EX-32.2 

Exhibit 32.2

SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED STATES CODE

I, William J. Wheeler, certify that (i) MetLife, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2008 (the  Form 10-K ) fully complies with the requirements of Section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and (ii) the information contained in the
Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of MetLife, Inc.

Date: February 27, 2009

/s/
William J. Wheeler

William J. Wheeler 
Executive Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to
MetLife, Inc. and will be retained by MetLife, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.2>

COVER
 25
 filename25.htm

COVER 

MetLife, Inc. 
1095 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, NY 10036 
212 578-2211

Miriam B. Fine 
Assistant General Counsel 
Law Department 
Tel 212 578-0423 Fax 212 251-1653

February 27, 2009

VIA EDGAR   
Securities and Exchange Commission 
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington D.C. 20549

Dear Sir or Madam:

On behalf of MetLife, Inc. (the  Company ), transmitted herewith is the Company s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 (the  Form 10-K ).

As discussed in Note 1 to the Company s consolidated financial statements contained in the
Form 10-K, the consolidated financial statements reflect a change in the method of accounting for
certain assets and liabilities to a fair value measurement approach as required by accounting
guidance adopted on January 1, 2008, and a change in the method of accounting for deferred
acquisition costs and for income taxes as required by accounting guidance adopted on January 1,
2007.

Sincerely, 

/s/ Miriam B. Fine

Miriam B. Fine  

Attachment

