<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20120228_10-K_edgar_data_1099219_0001193125-12-085720_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>84151555</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>2416332</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>22195978</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>17565811</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>26888336</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>13032483</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>444</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>43</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-12-085720.hdr.sgml : 20121231

<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20120228170943

<PRIVATE-TO-PUBLIC>

ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-12-085720

CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K

PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		324

CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20111231

FILED AS OF DATE:		20120228

DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20121130


FILER:


	COMPANY DATA:	

		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			METLIFE INC

		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001099219

		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	LIFE INSURANCE [6311]

		IRS NUMBER:				134075851

		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE

		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231



	FILING VALUES:

		FORM TYPE:		10-K

		SEC ACT:		1934 Act

		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-15787

		FILM NUMBER:		12648458



	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		1095 AVENUE OF AMERICAS

		CITY:			NEW YORK

		STATE:			NY

		ZIP:			10036

		BUSINESS PHONE:		212-578-5500



	MAIL ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		1095 AVENUE OF AMERICAS

		CITY:			NEW YORK

		STATE:			NY

		ZIP:			10036




</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-12-085720.txt : 20121231

10-K
 1
 d302570d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

FORM 10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549    
         
   Form 10-K        (Mark One)    
 
    For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011    
   or       
 
   For the transition period
from                     to                    
       Commission file number 001-15787        MetLife, Inc.        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
       
     (212) 578-2211        (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)        Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:        

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange on which registered     

Common Stock, par value $0.01  
     
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
  Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, par value $0.01  
     
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
  6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B, par value $0.01  
     
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
  Common Equity Units  
     
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
  5.875% Senior Notes  
     
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
  5.375% Senior Notes  
     
  Irish Stock Exchange   
 
  5.25% Senior Notes  
     
  Irish Stock Exchange   
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None    
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any,
every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to submit and post such files).    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K
(  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or
any amendment to this  Form 10-K.        
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer,
or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):   

Large accelerated filer       
      
    Accelerated filer         
 
    Non-accelerated filer      (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)   
      
    Smaller reporting company         
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes         No        
  The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant at
June 30, 2011 was approximately $46 billion. At February 21, 2012, 1,060,330,384 shares of the registrant s common stock were outstanding.       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE        Part III of
this Form 10-K incorporates by reference certain information from the registrant s definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 24, 2012, to be filed by the registrant with the Securities and
Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after the year ended December 31, 2011.        

Table of Contents  

      Table of Contents    

Page     Number   

Part I   

Item 1.   
        
   Business   

4  

Item 1A.   
        
   Risk Factors   

32  

Item 1B.   
        
   Unresolved Staff Comments   

71  

Item 2.   
        
   Properties   

71  

Item 3.   
        
   Legal Proceedings   

72  

Item 4.   
        
   Mine Safety Disclosures   

72  

Part II   

Item 5.   
        
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

72  

Item 6.   
        
   Selected Financial Data   

74  

Item 7.   
        
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

77  

Item 7A.   
        
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

192  

Item 8.   
        
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

203  

Item 9.   
        
   Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

439  

Item 9A.   
        
   Controls and Procedures   

439  

Item 9B.   
        
   Other Information   

441  

Part III   

Item 10.   
        
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

442  

Item 11.   
        
   Executive Compensation   

442  

Item 12.   
        
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

442  

Item 13.   
        
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   

445  

Item 14.   
        
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services   

445  

Part IV   

Item 15.   
        
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   

446  

Signatures     

447  

Exhibit Index     

E-1  
       
     EX-3.1     
   EX-3.2         EX-3.3         EX-3.4  
      EX-3.5         EX-3.6         EX-4.1(a)  
      EX-4.45         EX-4.82         EX-10.10
        EX-10.11         EX-10.35         EX-10.45
        EX-10.46         EX-10.47         EX-10.48
        EX-10.49         EX-10.58         EX-10.66
        EX-10.67         EX-10.74         EX-10.75
        EX-10.76         EX-10.80         EX-10.81
        EX-10.88         EX-10.89         EX-10.90
        EX-10.93         EX-10.94         EX-12.1
        EX-21.1         EX-23.1         EX-31.1  
      EX-31.2         EX-32.1        EX-32.2 
      EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT    
   EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT        EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT        EX-101
 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT        EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
   EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
         1   

Table of Contents  

    As used in this Form 10-K,  MetLife,  the
 Company,   we,   our  and  us  refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999, its subsidiaries and affiliates.    
   Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements    
  This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations, may contain or incorporate by reference information that includes or is based upon forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements give
expectations or forecasts of future events. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as  anticipate,   estimate,   expect, 
 project,   intend,   plan,   believe  and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements
relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, trends in operations and
financial results.      Any or all forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by
inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many such factors will be important in determining the actual future results of MetLife, Inc., its subsidiaries and affiliates. These statements are based on current expectations
and the current economic environment. They involve a number of risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied
in the forward-looking statements. Risks, uncertainties, and other factors that might cause such differences include the risks, uncertainties and other factors identified in MetLife, Inc. s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (the  SEC ). These factors include: (1) difficult conditions in the global capital markets; (2) concerns over U.S. fiscal policy and the trajectory of the national debt of the U.S., as well as rating agency downgrades
of U.S. Treasury securities; (3) uncertainty about the effectiveness of governmental and regulatory actions to stabilize the financial system, the imposition of fees relating thereto, or the promulgation of additional regulations;
(4) increased volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, which may affect our ability to seek financing or access our credit facilities; (5) impact of comprehensive financial services regulation reform on us;
(6) economic, political, legal, currency and other risks relating to our international operations, including with respect to fluctuations of exchange rates; (7) exposure to financial and capital market risk, including as a result of the
disruption in Europe and possible withdrawal of one or more countries from the Euro zone; (8) changes in general economic conditions, including the performance of financial markets and interest rates, which may affect our ability to raise
capital, generate fee income and market-related revenue and finance statutory reserve requirements and may require us to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in value of specified assets; (9) potential liquidity and other
risks resulting from our participation in a securities lending program and other transactions; (10) investment losses and defaults, and changes to investment valuations; (11) impairments of goodwill and realized losses or market value
impairments to illiquid assets; (12) defaults on our mortgage loans; (13) the defaults or deteriorating credit of other financial institutions that could adversely affect us; (14) our ability to address unforeseen liabilities, asset
impairments, or rating actions arising from acquisitions or dispositions, including our acquisition of American Life Insurance Company and Delaware American Life Insurance Company (collectively,  ALICO ) and to successfully integrate and
manage the growth of acquired businesses with minimal disruption; (15) uncertainty with respect to the outcome of the closing agreement entered into with the United States Internal Revenue Service in connection with the acquisition of ALICO;
(16) the dilutive impact on our stockholders resulting from the settlement of common equity units issued in connection with the acquisition of ALICO or otherwise; (17) MetLife, Inc. s primary reliance, as a holding company, on
dividends from its subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and the applicable regulatory restrictions on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends; (18) downgrades in our claims paying ability, financial strength or credit
ratings; (19) ineffectiveness of risk management policies and procedures; (20) availability and effectiveness of reinsurance or indemnification arrangements, as well as default or failure of counterparties to perform;
(21) discrepancies between actual claims experience and assumptions used in setting prices for our products and establishing the liabilities for our obligations for future policy benefits and claims; (22) catastrophe losses;
(23) heightened competition, including   
         2   

Table of Contents  

with respect to pricing, entry of new competitors, consolidation of distributors, the development of new products by new and existing competitors, distribution of amounts available under U.S.
government programs, and for personnel; (24) unanticipated changes in industry trends; (25) changes in assumptions related to investment valuations, deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements, value of business acquired
or goodwill; (26) changes in accounting standards, practices and/or policies; (27) increased expenses relating to pension and postretirement benefit plans, as well as health care and other employee benefits; (28) exposure to losses
related to variable annuity guarantee benefits, including from significant and sustained downturns or extreme volatility in equity markets, reduced interest rates, unanticipated policyholder behavior, mortality or longevity, and the adjustment for
nonperformance risk; (29) deterioration in the experience of the  closed block  established in connection with the reorganization of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company; (30) adverse results or other consequences from litigation,
arbitration or regulatory investigations; (31) inability to protect our intellectual property rights or claims of infringement of the intellectual property rights of others; (32) discrepancies between actual experience and assumptions used
in establishing liabilities related to other contingencies or obligations; (33) regulatory, legislative or tax changes relating to our insurance, banking, international, or other operations that may affect the cost of, or demand for, our
products or services, or increase the cost or administrative burdens of providing benefits to employees; (34) the effects of business disruption or economic contraction due to disasters such as terrorist attacks, cyberattacks, other
hostilities, or natural catastrophes, including any related impact on our disaster recovery systems, cyber- or other information security systems and management continuity planning; (35) the effectiveness of our programs and practices in
avoiding giving our associates incentives to take excessive risks; and (36) other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in MetLife, Inc. s filings with the SEC.   
  MetLife, Inc. does not undertake any obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if MetLife,
Inc. later becomes aware that such statement is not likely to be achieved. Please consult any further disclosures MetLife, Inc. makes on related subjects in reports to the SEC.   
   Note Regarding Reliance on Statements in Our Contracts    
  See  Exhibit Index   Note Regarding Reliance on Statements in Our Contracts  for information regarding
agreements included as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.      .   
         3   

Table of Contents  

      Part I    
     Item 1.    Business       
  As used in this Form 10-K,  MetLife,  the  Company,   we,   our  and
 us  refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999, its subsidiaries and affiliates.      With a more than 140-year history, we have grown to become a leading global provider of insurance, annuities and employee benefit programs, serving 90 million customers in over 50 countries. Through
our subsidiaries and affiliates, we hold leading market positions in the United States, Japan, Latin America, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East. Over the past several years, we have grown our core businesses, as well as successfully executed
on our growth strategy. This has included completing a number of transactions that have resulted in the acquisition and, in some cases, divestiture of certain businesses while also further strengthening our balance sheet to position MetLife for
continued growth.      MetLife is organized into six segments: Insurance Products, Retirement Products, Corporate
Benefit Funding and Auto   Home (collectively,  U.S. Business ), and Japan and Other International Regions (collectively,  International ). In addition, the Company reports certain of its results of operations in
Corporate   Other, which includes MetLife Bank, National Association ( MetLife Bank ) and other business activities. On November 21, 2011, MetLife, Inc. announced that it will be reorganizing its business into three broad
geographic regions: The Americas; Europe, the Middle East and Africa ( EMEA  and Asia, and creating a global employee benefits business to better reflect its global reach. While the Company has initiated certain changes in response to
this announcement, including the appointment of certain executive leadership into some of the roles designed for the reorganized structure, management continued to evaluate the performance of the operating segments under the existing segment
structure as of December 31, 2011. In addition, management continues to evaluate the Company s segment performance and allocated resources and may adjust such measurements in the future to better reflect segment profitability.   
  In December 2011, MetLife Bank and MetLife, Inc. entered into a definitive agreement to sell most of the depository
business of MetLife Bank. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2012, subject to certain regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. Additionally, in January 2012, MetLife, Inc. announced it is exiting the
business of originating forward residential mortgages (together with MetLife Bank s pending actions to exit the depository business, including the aforementioned December 2011 agreement, the  MetLife Bank Events ). Once MetLife Bank
has completely exited its depository business, MetLife, Inc. plans to terminate MetLife Bank s Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) insurance, putting MetLife, Inc. in a position to be able to deregister as a bank holding
company. See    U.S. Regulation   Financial Holding Company Regulation.  The Company continues to originate reverse mortgages and will continue to service its current mortgage customers. See Note 2 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.      In November 2011, the Company entered into an agreement to sell its
insurance operations in the Caribbean region, Panama and Costa Rica (the  Caribbean Business ). The sale is expected to close in the second quarter of 2012 subject to regulatory approval and other customary closing conditions. See Note 2
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      On November 1, 2010 (the  Acquisition
Date ), MetLife, Inc. completed the acquisition of American Life Insurance Company ( American Life ) from AM Holdings LLC (formerly known as ALICO Holdings LLC) ( AM Holdings ), a subsidiary of American International Group,
Inc. ( AIG ), and Delaware American Life Insurance Company ( DelAm ) from AIG (American Life, together with DelAm, collectively,  ALICO ) (the  Acquisition ). ALICO s fiscal year-end is November 30.
Accordingly, the Company s consolidated financial statements reflect the assets and liabilities of ALICO as of November 30, 2011 and 2010, and the operating results of ALICO for the year ended November 30, 2011 and the one month ended
November 30, 2010. The assets, liabilities and operating results relating to the Acquisition are included in the Japan and Other International Regions segments. Prior year results have been adjusted to conform to the current year presentation
of segments. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         4   

Table of Contents  

   In the U.S., we provide a variety of insurance and
financial services products   including life, dental, disability, auto and homeowners insurance, guaranteed interest and stable value products, and annuities   through both proprietary and independent retail distribution
channels, as well as at the workplace. This business serves approximately 60,000 group customers, including over 90 of the top one hundred FORTUNE 500      companies, and provides protection and retirement solutions to millions of individuals.   
  Outside the U.S., we operate in Japan and over 50 countries within Latin America, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle
East. MetLife is the largest life insurer in Mexico and also holds leading market positions in Japan, Poland, Chile and Korea. This business provides life insurance, accident and health insurance, credit insurance, annuities, endowment and
retirement   savings products to both individuals and groups. We believe our international operations will grow more quickly than our U.S. Business in the future.   
  Operating revenues derived from any customer did not exceed 10% of consolidated operating revenues in any of the last
three years. Financial information, including revenues, expenses, operating earnings, and total assets by segment, is provided in Note 22 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Operating revenues and operating earnings are
performance measures that are not based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ). See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  for
definitions of such measures.      For financial information related to revenues, total assets, and goodwill
balances by geographic region, see Note 7 and Note 22 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  We are one of the largest institutional investors in the U.S. with a $522 billion general account portfolio
invested primarily in investment grade corporate bonds, structured finance securities, commercial and agricultural mortgage loans, U.S. Treasury and agency securities, as well as real estate and corporate equity. Over the past several years, we
have taken a number of actions to further diversify and strengthen our general account portfolio.      Our
well-recognized brand, leading market positions, competitive and innovative product offerings and financial strength and expertise should help drive future growth and enhance shareholder value, building on a long history of fairness, honesty and
integrity. Over the course of the next several years, we will pursue the following objectives to achieve our goals:       

Global Presence             

Focus on targeted, disciplined global growth of our businesses        

Leverage our broad and diverse set of distribution channels and products        

Become a more customer-centric organization       

Brand            

Extend the reach of our widely recognized brand to access customers in key markets       

Financial Strength            

Build on our strong risk management and investment expertise        

Focus on margin improvement and return on equity expansion       

Maintain balance between growth, profitability and risk       

Focus on pursuing growth that will add value to the Company and achieve return on equity in excess of our long-term cost of capital 

Take a portfolio view of the business and invest capital in core markets       
         5   

Table of Contents  

Talent             

Further our commitment to a diverse, high performance workplace        
   U.S. Business         Overview         Insurance Products    
  Our Insurance Products segment offers a broad range of protection products and services aimed at serving the financial
needs of our customers throughout their lives. These products are sold to individuals and corporations, as well as other institutions and their respective employees. We have built a leading position in the U.S. group insurance market through
long-standing relationships with many of the largest corporate employers in the U.S., and we are one of the largest issuers of individual life insurance products in the U.S. Our Insurance Products segment is organized into three distinct
businesses: Group Life, Individual Life and Non-Medical Health.      Our Group Life insurance products and
services include variable life, universal life, and term life products. We offer group insurance products as employer-paid benefits or as voluntary benefits where all or a portion of the premiums are paid by the employee. These group products and
services also include employee paid supplemental life and are offered as standard products or may be tailored to meet specific customer needs.      Our Individual Life insurance products and services include variable life, universal life, term life and whole life products. Additionally, through our broker-dealer affiliates, we offer a full range of
mutual funds and other securities products. The elimination of transactions from activity between the segments within U.S. Business occurs within Individual Life.   
  The major products within both Group Life and Individual Life are as follows:   
   Variable Life.   Variable life products provide insurance coverage through a contract
that gives the policyholder flexibility in investment choices and, depending on the product, in premium payments and coverage amounts, with certain guarantees. Most importantly, with variable life products, premiums and account balances can be
directed by the policyholder into a variety of separate account investment options or directed to the Company s general account. In the separate account investment options, the policyholder bears the entire risk of the investment results. We
collect specified fees for the management of the investment options. The policyholder s cash value reflects the investment return of the selected investment options, net of management fees and insurance-related and other charges. In some
instances, third-party money management firms manage these investment options. With some products, by maintaining a certain premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse
investment experience.       Universal Life.   Universal life products provide
insurance coverage on the same basis as variable life, except that premiums, and the resulting accumulated balances, are allocated only to the Company s general account. Universal life products may allow the insured to increase or decrease the
amount of death benefit coverage over the term of the contract and the owner to adjust the frequency and amount of premium payments. We credit premiums to an account maintained for the policyholder. Premiums are credited net of specified expenses.
Interest is credited to the policyholder s account at interest rates we determine, subject to specified minimums. Specific charges are made against the policyholder s account for the cost of insurance protection and for expenses. With some
products, by maintaining a certain premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse investment experience.   
   Term Life.  Term life products provide a guaranteed benefit upon the death of the insured for
a specified time period in return for the periodic payment of premiums. Specified coverage periods range from one year to   
         6   

Table of Contents  

30 years, but in no event are they longer than the period over which premiums are paid. Death benefits may be level over the period or decreasing. Decreasing coverage is used principally to
provide for loan repayment in the event of death. Premiums may be guaranteed at a level amount for the coverage period or may be non-level and non-guaranteed. Term insurance products are sometimes referred to as pure protection products, in that
there are typically no savings or investment elements. Term contracts expire without value at the end of the coverage period when the insured party is still living.   
   Whole Life.   Whole life products provide a guaranteed benefit upon the death of the
insured in return for the periodic payment of a fixed premium over a predetermined period. Premium payments may be required for the entire life of the contract period, to a specified age or period, and may be level or change in accordance with a
predetermined schedule. Whole life insurance includes policies that provide a participation feature in the form of dividends. Policyholders may receive dividends in cash or apply them to increase death benefits, increase cash values available upon
surrender or reduce the premiums required to maintain the contract in-force. Because the use of dividends is specified by the policyholder, this group of products provides significant flexibility to individuals to tailor the product to suit their
specific needs and circumstances, while at the same time providing guaranteed benefits.      Our Non-Medical
Health products and services include dental insurance, group short- and long-term disability, individual disability income, long-term care ( LTC ), critical illness and accidental death   dismemberment coverages. Other products
and services include employer-sponsored auto and homeowners insurance provided through the Auto   Home segment and prepaid legal plans. We also sell administrative services-only ( ASO ) arrangements to some employers. The major
products in this area are:       Dental.   Dental products provide insurance and
ASO plans that assist employees, retirees and their families in maintaining oral health while reducing out-of-pocket expenses and providing superior customer service. Dental plans include the Preferred Dentist Program and the Dental Health
Maintenance Organization.       Disability.   Disability products provide a benefit
in the event of the disability of the insured. In most instances, this benefit is in the form of monthly income paid until the insured reaches age 65. In addition to income replacement, the product may be used to provide for the payment of
business overhead expenses for disabled business owners or mortgage payment protection. This is offered on both a group and individual basis.       Long-term Care.   LTC products provide protection against the potentially high costs of LTC services. They generally pay benefits to insureds who need assistance with activities of daily
living or have a cognitive impairment. Although we discontinued the sale of these products in 2010, we continue to support our existing policyholders.       Retirement Products       Our Retirement Products segment
offers a variety of variable and fixed annuities that are primarily sold to individuals and employees of corporations and other institutions. The major products in this area are:   
   Variable Annuities.   Variable annuities provide for both asset accumulation and asset
distribution needs. Variable annuities allow the contractholder to make deposits into various investment options in a separate account, as determined by the contractholder. The risks associated with such investment options are borne entirely by the
contractholder, except where guaranteed minimum benefits are involved. In certain variable annuity products, contractholders may also choose to allocate all or a portion of their account to the Company s general account and are credited with
interest at rates we determine, subject to certain minimums. In addition, contractholders may also elect certain minimum death benefit and minimum living benefit guarantees for which additional fees are charged and where asset allocation
restrictions may apply.       Fixed Annuities.   Fixed annuities provide for both
asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Fixed annuities do not allow the same investment flexibility provided by variable annuities, but provide guarantees   
         7   

Table of Contents  

related to the preservation of principal and interest credited. Deposits made into deferred annuity contracts are allocated to the Company s general account and are credited with interest at
rates we determine, subject to certain minimums. Credited interest rates are guaranteed not to change for certain limited periods of time, ranging from one to 10 years. Fixed income annuities provide a guaranteed monthly income for a specified
period of years and/or for the life of the annuitant.       Corporate Benefit Funding    
  Our Corporate Benefit Funding segment includes an array of annuity and investment products, including guaranteed interest
products and other stable value products, income annuities, and separate account contracts for the investment management of defined benefit and defined contribution plan assets. This segment also includes certain products to fund postretirement
benefits and company, bank or trust owned life insurance used to finance non-qualified benefit programs for executives. The major products in this area are:   
   Stable Value Products.   We offer general account guaranteed interest contracts, separate
account guaranteed interest contracts, and similar products used to support the stable value option of defined contribution plans. We also offer private floating rate funding agreements that are used for money market funds, securities lending cash
collateral portfolios and short-term investment funds.       Pensions Closeouts.  We
offer general account and separate account annuity products, generally in connection with the termination of defined benefit pension plans, both in the U.S. and the United Kingdom ( U.K. ). We also offer partial risk transfer
solutions that allow for partial transfers of pension liabilities and annuity products that include single premium buyouts.       Torts and Settlements.   We offer innovative strategies for complex litigation settlements, primarily structured settlement annuities.   
   Capital Markets Investment Products.   Products offered include funding agreements,
Federal Home Loan Bank advances and funding agreement-backed commercial paper.       Other
Corporate Benefit Funding Products and Services.   We offer specialized life insurance products designed specifically to provide solutions for non-qualified benefit and retiree benefit funding purposes.   
   Auto   Home       Our Auto   Home segment includes personal lines property and casualty insurance offered directly to employees at their employer s worksite, as well as to individuals through a variety of
retail distribution channels, including independent agents, property and casualty specialists, direct response marketing and the individual distribution sales group. Auto   Home primarily sells auto insurance, which represented 67% of
Auto   Home s total net earned premiums in 2011. Homeowners and other insurance represented 33% of Auto   Home s total net earned premiums in 2011. The major products in this area are:   
   Auto Coverages.   Auto insurance policies provide coverage for private passenger
automobiles, utility automobiles and vans, motorcycles, motor homes, antique or classic automobiles and trailers. Auto   Home offers traditional coverage such as liability, uninsured motorist, no fault or personal injury protection, as well
as collision and comprehensive.       Homeowners and Other
Coverages.   Homeowners  insurance policies provide protection for homeowners, renters, condominium owners and residential landlords against losses arising out of damage to dwellings and contents from a wide variety of perils, as
well as coverage for liability arising from ownership or occupancy. Other insurance includes personal excess liability (protection against losses in excess of amounts covered by other liability insurance policies), and coverage for recreational
vehicles and boat owners. Most of Auto   Home s homeowners  policies are traditional insurance policies for dwellings, providing protection for loss on a  replacement cost  basis. These policies also provide additional
coverage for reasonable, normal living expenses incurred by policyholders that have been displaced from their homes.   
         8   

Table of Contents  

   In 2011, Auto   Home s business was concentrated in New York,
Massachusetts and Illinois, as measured by the percentage of total direct earned premiums, of 12%, 8% and 7%, respectively, followed by Florida with 6%, and Connecticut and Texas, each with 5%.   
    Sales Distribution        U.S. Business markets our products and services through various distribution groups. Our life insurance and retirement products targeted to individuals are sold via sales forces, comprised of MetLife
employees, in addition to third-party organizations. Our group life, non-medical health and corporate benefit funding products are sold via sales forces primarily comprised of MetLife employees. Personal lines property and casualty insurance
products are directly marketed to employees at their employer s worksite. Auto   Home products are also marketed and sold to individuals by independent agents and property and casualty specialists through a direct response channel and
the individual distribution sales group. MetLife sales employees work with all distribution groups to better reach and service customers, brokers, consultants and other intermediaries.   
   Individual Distribution       Our individual distribution sales group targets the large middle-income market, as well as affluent individuals, owners of small businesses and executives of small- to medium-sized companies. We have also
been successful in selling our products in various multi-cultural markets.      Insurance Products are sold
through our individual distribution sales group and also through various third-party organizations utilizing two models. In the coverage model, wholesalers sell to high net worth individuals and small- to medium-sized businesses through independent
general agencies, financial advisors, consultants, brokerage general agencies and other independent marketing organizations under contractual arrangements. In the point of sale model, wholesalers sell through financial intermediaries, including
regional broker-dealers, brokerage firms, financial planners and banks.      Retirement Products are sold through
our individual distribution sales group and also through various third-party organizations such as regional broker-dealers, New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) brokerage firms, financial planners and banks.   
  The individual distribution sales group is comprised of three channels: the MetLife distribution channel, a career agency
system, the New England financial distribution channel, a general agency system, and MetLife Resources, a career agency system.      The MetLife distribution channel had approximately 5,000 MetLife agents under contract in 50 agencies at December 31, 2011. The career agency sales force focuses on the large middle-income and
affluent markets, including multi-cultural markets. We support our efforts in multi-cultural markets through targeted advertising, specially trained agents and sales literature written in various languages.   
  The New England Financial distribution channel included approximately 35 general agencies providing support to 2,100
general agents and a network of independent brokers throughout the U.S. at December 31, 2011. The New England Financial distribution channel targets high net worth individuals, owners of small businesses and executives of small- to
medium-sized companies.      MetLife Resources, a focused distribution channel of MetLife, markets retirement,
annuity and other financial products on a national basis through approximately 540 MetLife agents and independent brokers at December 31, 2011. MetLife Resources targets the nonprofit, educational and healthcare markets.   
  We market and sell Auto   Home products through independent agents, property and casualty specialists, a direct
response channel and the individual distribution sales group. In recent years, we have increased the number of independent agents appointed to sell these products.   
         9   

Table of Contents  

    Group Distribution    
  Insurance Products distributes its group life and non-medical health products and services through a sales force that is
segmented by the size of the target customer. Marketing representatives sell either directly to corporate and other group customers or through an intermediary, such as a broker or consultant. Voluntary products are sold through the same sales
channels, as well as by specialists for these products. Employers have been emphasizing such voluntary products and, as a result, we have increased our focus on communicating and marketing to such employees in order to further foster sales of those
products. At December 31, 2011, the group life and non-medical health sales channels had approximately 350 marketing representatives.      Retirement Products markets its retirement, savings, investment and payout annuity products and services to sponsors and advisors of benefit plans of all sizes. These products and services are offered to
private and public pension plans, collective bargaining units, nonprofit organizations, recipients of structured settlements and the current and retired members of these and other institutions.   
  Corporate Benefit Funding products and services are distributed through dedicated sales teams and relationship managers
located in 11 offices around the country. In addition, the retirement   benefits funding organization works with individual distribution and group life and non-medical health distribution areas to better reach and service customers,
brokers, consultants and other intermediaries.      Auto   Home is a leading provider of personal lines
property and casualty insurance products offered to employees at their employer s worksite. At December 31, 2011, approximately 2,400 employers offered MetLife Auto   Home products to their employees.   
  Group marketing representatives market personal lines property and casualty insurance products to employers through a
variety of means, including broker referrals and cross-selling to group customers. Once permitted by the employer, MetLife commences marketing efforts to employees. Employees who are interested in the auto and homeowners products can call a
toll-free number to request a quote to purchase coverage and to request payroll deduction over the telephone. Auto   Home has also developed proprietary software that permits an employee in most states to obtain a quote for auto insurance
through Auto   Home s internet website.      We have entered into several joint ventures and other
arrangements with third parties to expand the marketing and distribution opportunities of group products and services. We also seek to sell our group products and services through sponsoring organizations and affinity groups. In addition, we also
provide life and dental coverage to federal employees.       International    
    Overview        International provides life insurance, accident and health insurance, credit insurance, annuities, endowment and retirement   savings products to both individuals and groups. We focus on markets
primarily within Japan, Latin America, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East. We operate in international markets through subsidiaries and affiliates. See  Risk Factors   Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could
Negatively Affect Our Profitability,   Risk Factors   Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect
Those Operations or Our Profitability,   Risk Factors   Difficult Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy Generally May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations and These Conditions May
Not Improve in the Near Future,  and  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.        Japan       Our Japan operation is comprised of the business
acquired in the Acquisition. Our Japan operation is among the largest foreign life insurers in Japan and ranks sixth in the Japanese life insurance industry measured by total   
         10   

Table of Contents  

premiums according to the Statistics of Life Insurance in Japan 2010. It provides life insurance products which include whole life, term life, variable life and universal life products. Our Japan
operation also provides accident and health insurance, fixed and variable annuities and endowment products. These products are offered to both individuals and groups. Its products are distributed through a multi-distribution platform consisting of
captive agents, independent agents, brokers, bancassurance, and direct marketing ( DM ).       Other
International Regions        Latin America.   We operate in 22 countries in Latin America, with
the largest operations in Mexico, Chile and Argentina. Our Mexican operation is the largest life insurance company in Mexico in both the individual and group businesses according to Asociaci n Mexicana de Instituciones de Seguro, a Mexican
industry trade group which provides rankings for insurance companies. Our Chilean operation is the largest annuity company in Chile, based on market share according to Superintendencia Valores y Seguros, the Chilean insurance regulator. Our Chilean
operation also offers individual life insurance and group insurance products. We also actively market individual life insurance, group insurance products and credit life coverage in Argentina, but the nationalization of the pension system
substantially reduced our presence in Argentina. The business environment in Argentina has been, and may continue to be, affected by governmental and legal actions which impact our results of operations. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information on the pending disposition of the Caribbean Business.       Asia
Pacific.   We operate in four countries in Asia Pacific with wholly-owned operations in Korea, Hong Kong and Australia. Our Korean operation has significant sales of variable universal life and annuity products. Our Hong Kong operation
has significant sales of variable universal life and endowment products. Our Australia operation has significant sales of credit insurance and group life products. We also operate through a joint venture in China, the results of which are reflected
in net investment income and are not consolidated in our financial results. As discussed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company sold its 50% interest in its former joint venture in Japan in the second
quarter of 2011.       Europe and the Middle East.   We operate in 35 countries in Europe and the
Middle East with our largest operations in Poland, the U.K., France, and the United Arab Emirates, as well as through a consolidated joint venture in India. Our Poland operation is a leading provider of life insurance, accident and health insurance,
and credit insurance. It is consistently ranked as a top three company in net profits according to  Rzeczpospolita  financial daily. Our U.K. operation provides life insurance, accident and health insurance and variable annuities in
its home market and throughout Europe. Our operation in France provides life insurance, accident and health insurance and credit insurance. In the Middle East, we provide life insurance, accident and health insurance, credit insurance, annuities,
endowment and retirement   savings products.        Sales Distribution     
  International markets its products and services through a multi-distribution strategy which varies by geographic region.
The various distribution channels include: agency, bancassurance, DM, brokerage and e-commerce. In developing countries, agency covers the needs of the emerging middle class with primarily traditional products (e.g., endowment and accident and
health). In more developed and mature markets, agents, while continuing to serve their existing customers to keep pace with their developing financial needs, also target upper middle class and high net worth customer bases with a more sophisticated
product set including more investment-sensitive products, such as universal life, mutual fund and single premium deposits.      In the bancassurance channel, International leverages partnerships that span all regions. In addition, DM has extensive and far reaching capabilities in all regions. The DM operations deploy both
broadcast marketing approaches (e.g. direct response TV, web-based lead generation) and traditional DM techniques such as telemarketing. Japan represents our largest DM market.   
         11   

Table of Contents  

    Japan    
  Japan s multi-channel distribution strategy consists of captive agents, independent agents, brokers, bancassurance,
and DM. While face-to-face channels continue to be core to Japan s business, other channels, including bancassurance and DM, have become a critical part of Japan s distribution strategy. Our Japan operation has maintained its position in
bancassurance due to its strong distribution relationship with Japan s mega banks, trust banks and various regional banks, as well as with the Japan Post. The DM channel is supported by an industry-leading marketing platform, state-of-the-art
call center infrastructure and its own campaign management system.      Our Japan operation has approximately
5,500 captive agents, 10,500 independent agents, 100 bancassurance relationships, including Japan Post, and 200 DM sponsors.       Other International Regions        Latin
America.   Latin America s key distribution channels include captive agents, DM, bancassurance, large multinational brokers and small-and medium-sized brokers, direct and group sales forces (mostly for group policies without broker
intermediation), and worksite marketing. The region has an exclusive and captive agency distribution network with more than 2,500 agents also selling a variety of individual life, accident and health, and pension products. In the DM channel, we work
with more than 50 sponsors and have a network of more than 1,600 telesales representatives selling mainly accident and health and individual life products. We currently work with over 3,000 active brokers with registered sales of group and
individual life, accident and health, group medical, dental and pension products. Worksite marketing in Mexico has over 2,200 agents.       Asia Pacific.   Asia Pacific distribution strategies differ by country but generally utilize a combination of captive agents, bancassurance relationships and DM. Agency sales are achieved
through a force of approximately 8,500 agents and managers (which includes approximately 1,700 agents and managers related to our joint venture in China) and a growing force of independent general agents. Bancassurance sales are currently reliant
upon a significant regional strategic partnership along with a number of smaller partnerships in each market. Throughout the region, our Asia Pacific operation leverages its expertise in DM operations management to conduct its own campaigns and
provide those DM capabilities to third-party sponsors.      While not a significant part of the region s
overall business, sales of group life and pension business are primarily achieved through independent brokers and an employee sales force.       Europe and the Middle East.   Our operation in Central and Eastern Europe ( CEE ) has a multi-channel distribution strategy, which includes significant face to face channels,
built on a strong captive agency force of more than 3,400 agents, and relationships with more than 90 active independent brokers and third-party multi-level agency networks. Our CEE operation also has a group/corporate business direct sales force of
more than 70 and distribution relationships with more than 100 banks, and other financial and non-financial institutions, as well as a fast growing DM channel. The primary method of distribution is captive and third party agency and captive direct
sales forces, with a growing presence in bank, other financial and non-financial institutions, and DM.   
  Our operation in Western Europe also has a multi-channel distribution strategy, including DM, brokerage, banks and
financial institutions. Our U.K. operation has built a strong position in the U.K. independent advisor sector and other third-party distributors with a focus on variable and fixed term annuities. Our U.K operation also has a growing group risk
business serving small and medium sized enterprise employers and an agency sales force of approximately 600 agents which distributes accident and health and term life products.   
  In the Middle East, our products are distributed via a variety of channels including approximately 17,700 agents,
bancassurance, brokers and DM. Agency distribution is our primary distribution channel; we have the largest captive network in the Middle East. Bancassurance is a growing channel with approximately 90 relationships, and approximately 260
programs providing access to millions of bank customers.   
         12   

Table of Contents  

    Corporate   Other    
  Corporate   Other contains the excess capital not allocated to the segments, external integration costs,
internal resource costs for associates committed to acquisitions, and various start-up and run-off entities. Additionally, Corporate   Other includes interest expense related to the majority of our outstanding debt, expenses associated with
certain legal proceedings, the financial results of MetLife Bank and income tax audit issues. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Corporate   Other also includes the elimination of intersegment amounts, which
generally relate to intersegment loans, which bear interest rates commensurate with related borrowings.   
  MetLife Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York and is subject to
regulation, examination and supervision primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ), and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ( CFPB ), and secondarily by the FDIC, the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve Board ) and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the  FRB of NY  and, collectively with the Federal Reserve Board, the   Federal Reserve ).   
   Policyholder Liabilities       We establish, and carry as liabilities, actuarially determined amounts that are calculated to meet our policy obligations when a policy matures or is surrendered, an insured dies or becomes disabled or
upon the occurrence of other covered events, or to provide for future annuity payments. Amounts for actuarial liabilities are computed and reported in the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP. For more details on Policyholder
Liabilities see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates   Liability for Future Policy Benefits  and  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Policyholder Liabilities.       Pursuant to state insurance laws and country regulators, MetLife, Inc. s insurance subsidiaries establish statutory reserves, reported as liabilities, to meet their obligations on their respective
policies. These statutory reserves are established in amounts sufficient to meet policy and contract obligations, when taken together with expected future premiums and interest at assumed rates. Statutory reserves and actuarial liabilities for
future policy benefits generally differ based on accounting guidance.      The New York Insurance Law and
regulations require certain MetLife entities to submit to the New York Superintendent of Insurance or other state insurance departments, with each annual report, an opinion and memorandum of a  qualified actuary  that the statutory
reserves and related actuarial amounts recorded in support of specified policies and contracts, and the assets supporting such statutory reserves and related actuarial amounts, make adequate provision for their statutory liabilities with respect to
these obligations. See    U.S. Regulation   Insurance Regulation   Policy and Contract Reserve Adequacy Analysis.       Insurance regulators in many of the non-U.S. countries in which MetLife operates require certain MetLife entities to prepare a sufficiency analysis of the reserves posted in the locally required
regulatory financial statements, and to submit that analysis to the regulatory authorities. See    International Regulation.        Underwriting and Pricing         Underwriting     
  Underwriting generally involves an evaluation of applications for Insurance Products, Retirement Products, Corporate
Benefit Funding, and Auto   Home by a professional staff of underwriters and actuaries, who determine the type and the amount of risk that we are willing to accept. International offers the products described above, with the exception of
property and casualty insurance. They also offer credit insurance and accident and health products. We employ detailed underwriting policies, guidelines and procedures designed to assist the underwriter to properly assess and quantify risks before
issuing policies to qualified applicants or groups, which are consistent for both the U.S. Business and International.   
         13   

Table of Contents  

   Insurance underwriting considers not only an applicant s medical
history, but also other factors such as financial profile, foreign travel, vocations and alcohol, drug and tobacco use. Group underwriting generally evaluates the risk characteristics of each prospective insured group, although with certain
voluntary products and for certain coverages, members of a group may be underwritten on an individual basis. We generally perform our own underwriting; however, certain policies are reviewed by intermediaries under guidelines established by us.
Generally, we are not obligated to accept any risk or group of risks from, or to issue a policy or group of policies to, any employer or intermediary. Requests for coverage are reviewed on their merits and generally a policy is not issued unless the
particular risk or group has been examined and approved by our underwriters.      The underwriting conducted by
our remote underwriting offices and intermediaries, as well as our corporate underwriting office, are subject to periodic quality assurance reviews to maintain high-standards of underwriting and consistency. Such offices are also subject to periodic
external audits by reinsurers with whom we do business.      We have established senior level oversight of the
underwriting process that facilitates quality sales and serves the needs of our customers, while supporting our financial strength and business objectives. Our goal is to achieve the underwriting, mortality and morbidity levels reflected in the
assumptions in our product pricing. This is accomplished by determining and establishing underwriting policies, guidelines, philosophies and strategies that are competitive and suitable for the customer, the agent and us.   
  Auto   Home s underwriting function has six principal aspects: evaluating potential worksite marketing
employer accounts and independent agencies; establishing guidelines for the binding of risks; reviewing coverage bound by agents; underwriting potential insureds, on a case by case basis, presented by agents outside the scope of their binding
authority; pursuing information necessary in certain cases to enable Auto   Home to issue a policy within our guidelines; and ensuring that renewal policies continue to be written at rates commensurate with risk.   
  Subject to very few exceptions, agents in each of the U.S. Business distribution channels have binding authority for
risks which fall within its published underwriting guidelines. Risks falling outside the underwriting guidelines may be submitted for approval to the underwriting department; alternatively, agents in such a situation may call the underwriting
department to obtain authorization to bind the risk themselves. In most states, we generally have the right within a specified period (usually the first 60 days) to cancel any policy.   
    Pricing        Pricing reflects our corporate underwriting standards, which are consistent for both U.S. Business and International. Product pricing is based on the expected payout of benefits calculated through the use
of assumptions for mortality, morbidity, expenses, persistency and investment returns, as well as certain macroeconomic factors, such as inflation. Investment-oriented products are priced based on various factors, which may include investment
return, expenses, persistency and optionality. For certain investment oriented products in the U.S. and certain business sold internationally, pricing may include prospective and retrospective experience rating features. Prospective experience
rating involves the evaluation of past experience for the purpose of determining future premium rates and all prior year gains and losses are borne by us. Retrospective experience rating also involves the evaluation of past experience for the
purpose of determining the actual cost of providing insurance for the customer, however, the contract includes certain features that allow us to recoup certain losses or distribute certain gains back to the policyholder based on actual prior
years  experience.      Rates for group life, non-medical health, and medical health products are based on
anticipated results for the book of business being underwritten. Renewals are generally reevaluated annually or biannually and are repriced to reflect actual experience on such products. Products offered by Corporate Benefit Funding are priced
frequently and are very responsive to bond yields, and such prices include additional margin in periods of market uncertainty. This business is predominantly illiquid, because a majority of the policyholders have no contractual rights to cash values
and no options to change the form of the product s benefits.   
         14   

Table of Contents  

   Rates for individual life insurance products are highly regulated and must
be approved by the regulators of the jurisdictions in which the product is sold. Generally such products are renewed annually and may include pricing terms that are guaranteed for a certain period of time. Fixed and variable annuity products are
also highly regulated and approved by the respective regulators. Such products generally include penalties for early withdrawals and policyholder benefit elections to tailor the form of the product s benefits to the needs of the opting
policyholder. We periodically reevaluate the costs associated with such options and will periodically adjust pricing levels on our guarantees. Further, from time to time, we may also reevaluate the type and level of guarantee features currently
being offered.      Rates for Auto   Home s major lines of insurance are based on its proprietary
database, rather than relying on rating bureaus. Auto   Home determines prices in part from a number of variables specific to each risk. The pricing of personal lines insurance products takes into account, among other things, the expected
frequency and severity of losses, the costs of providing coverage (including the costs of acquiring policyholders and administering policy benefits and other administrative and overhead costs), competitive factors and profit considerations. The
major pricing variables for personal lines insurance include characteristics of the insured property, such as age, make and model or construction type, as well as characteristics of the insureds, such as driving record and loss experience, and the
insured s personal financial management. Auto   Home s ability to set and change rates is subject to regulatory oversight.      As a condition of our license to do business in each state, Auto   Home, like all other automobile insurers, is required to write or share the cost of private passenger automobile insurance for
higher risk individuals who would otherwise be unable to obtain such insurance. This  involuntary  market, also called the  shared market,  is governed by the applicable laws and regulations of each state, and policies written in
this market are generally written at rates higher than standard rates.      We continually review our underwriting
and pricing guidelines so that our policies remain competitive and supportive of our marketing strategies and profitability goals. Management does not expect the current economic environment, with its volatility and uncertainty, to materially impact
the pricing of our products.       Reinsurance Activity    
  We participate in reinsurance activities in order to limit losses, minimize exposure to significant risks, and provide
additional capacity for future growth. We enter into various agreements with reinsurers that cover individual risks, group risks or defined blocks of business, primarily on a coinsurance, yearly renewable term, excess or catastrophe excess basis.
These reinsurance agreements spread risk and minimize the effect of losses. The extent of each risk retained by us depends on our evaluation of the specific risk, subject, in certain circumstances, to maximum retention limits based on the
characteristics of coverages. We also cede first dollar mortality risk under certain contracts. In addition to reinsuring mortality risk, we reinsure other risks, as well as specific coverages. We obtain reinsurance for capital requirement purposes
and also when the economic impact of the reinsurance agreement makes it appropriate to do so.      Under the terms
of the reinsurance agreements, the reinsurer agrees to reimburse us for the ceded amount in the event a claim is paid. Cessions under reinsurance agreements do not discharge our obligations as the primary insurer. In the event that reinsurers do not
meet their obligations under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, reinsurance balances recoverable could become uncollectible.      We reinsure our business through a diversified group of well-capitalized, highly rated reinsurers. We analyze recent trends in arbitration and litigation outcomes in disputes, if any, with our reinsurers.
We monitor ratings and evaluate the financial strength of our reinsurers by analyzing their financial statements. In addition, the reinsurance recoverable balance due from each reinsurer is evaluated as part of the overall monitoring process.
Recoverability of reinsurance recoverable balances is evaluated based on these analyses. We generally secure large reinsurance recoverable balances with various forms of collateral, including secured trusts, funds withheld accounts and irrevocable
letters of credit.   
         15   

Table of Contents  

     U.S. Business     
  For our individual life insurance products, we have historically reinsured the mortality risk primarily on an excess of
retention basis or a quota share basis. We currently reinsure 90% of the mortality risk in excess of $1 million for most products and reinsure up to 90% of the mortality risk for certain other products. In addition to reinsuring mortality risk
as described above, we reinsure other risks, as well as specific coverages. Placement of reinsurance is done primarily on an automatic basis and also on a facultative basis for risks with specified characteristics. On a case by case basis, we may
retain up to $20 million per life and reinsure 100% of amounts in excess of the amount we retain. We evaluate our reinsurance programs routinely and may increase or decrease our retention at any time.   
  For other policies within the Insurance Products segment, we generally retain most of the risk and only cede particular
risks on certain client arrangements.      Our Retirement Products segment reinsures a portion of the living and
death benefit guarantees issued in connection with our variable annuities. Under these reinsurance agreements, we pay a reinsurance premium generally based on fees associated with the guarantees collected from policyholders, and receive
reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account values, subject to certain limitations.      Our
Corporate Benefit Funding segment has periodically engaged in reinsurance activities, as considered appropriate.      Our Auto   Home segment purchases reinsurance to manage its exposure to large losses (primarily catastrophe losses) and to protect statutory surplus. We cede to reinsurers a portion of losses and
premiums based upon the exposure of the policies subject to reinsurance. To manage exposure to large property and casualty losses, we utilize property catastrophe, casualty and property per risk excess of loss agreements.   
    International        For certain of our life insurance products, we reinsure risks above the corporate retention limit of up to $5 million to external reinsurers on a yearly renewable term basis. We may also reinsure
certain risks with external reinsurers depending upon the nature of the risk and local regulatory requirements.   
  For selected large corporate clients, International reinsures group employee benefits or credit insurance business with
various client-affiliated reinsurance companies, covering policies issued to the employees or customers of the clients. Additionally, we cede and assume risk with other insurance companies when either company requires a business partner with the
appropriate local licensing to issue certain types of policies in certain countries. In these cases, the assuming company typically underwrites the risks, develops the products and assumes most or all of the risk.   
  International also has reinsurance agreements in force that reinsure a portion of the living and death benefit guarantees
issued in connection with variable annuity products. Under these agreements, we pay or receive reinsurance fees associated with the guarantees collected from policyholders, and pay or receive reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of
account values, subject to certain limitations.        Corporate   Other     
  We also reinsure through 100% quota share reinsurance agreements certain run-off LTC and workers  compensation
business written by MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut ( MICC ), a subsidiary of MetLife, Inc.   
      Catastrophe Coverage       
  We have exposure to catastrophes, which could contribute to significant fluctuations in our results of operations. We
also use excess of retention and quota share reinsurance agreements to provide greater   
         16   

Table of Contents  

diversification of risk and minimize exposure to larger risks. International currently purchases catastrophe coverage to insure risks within certain countries deemed by management to be exposed
to the greatest catastrophic risks.          Reinsurance Recoverables       
  For information regarding ceded reinsurance recoverable balances, included in premiums, reinsurance and other receivables
in the consolidated balance sheets, see Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       U.S. Regulation
        Insurance Regulation     
  In the United States, insurance is principally regulated by the states, with the federal government playing a limited
role. Insurance regulation generally aims at supervising and regulating insurers individually rather than on a group-wide basis, with the goal of protecting policyholders and ensuring that each insurance company remains solvent.   
  Each of MetLife s insurance subsidiaries operating in the United States is licensed and regulated in each
U.S. jurisdiction where it conducts insurance business. The extent of such regulation varies, but most jurisdictions have laws and regulations governing the financial aspects of insurers, including standards of solvency, statutory reserves,
reinsurance and capital adequacy, and the business conduct of insurers. In addition, statutes and regulations usually require the licensing of insurers and their agents, the approval of policy forms and certain other related materials and, for
certain lines of insurance, the approval of rates. Such statutes and regulations also prescribe the permitted types and concentration of investments. See  Risk Factors   Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are Highly
Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth.       Each insurance subsidiary is required to file reports, generally including detailed annual financial statements, with insurance regulatory authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which it does
business, and its operations and accounts are subject to periodic examination by such authorities. These subsidiaries must also file, and in many jurisdictions and in some lines of insurance obtain regulatory approval for, rules, rates and forms
relating to the insurance written in the jurisdictions in which they operate.      State and federal insurance and
securities regulatory authorities and other state law enforcement agencies and attorneys general from time to time make inquiries regarding compliance by MetLife, Inc. and its insurance subsidiaries with insurance, securities and other laws and
regulations regarding the conduct of our insurance and securities businesses. We cooperate with such inquiries and take corrective action when warranted. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
   Holding Company Regulation.   MetLife, Inc. and its U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to
regulation under the insurance holding company laws of various U.S. jurisdictions. The insurance holding company laws and regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally require a controlled insurance company (insurers that are
subsidiaries of insurance holding companies) to register with state regulatory authorities and to file with those authorities certain reports, including information concerning its capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain
intercompany transactions and general business operations.      State insurance statutes also typically place
restrictions and limitations on the amount of dividends or other distributions payable by insurance company subsidiaries to their parent companies, as well as on transactions between an insurer and its affiliates. See  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   MetLife, Inc.   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Dividends from Subsidiaries.    
         17   

Table of Contents  

    Guaranty Associations and Similar Arrangements.   Most of
the U.S. jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business require life and property and casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay
certain contractual insurance benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of
the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium
tax offsets.      In the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied against MetLife have not been material.
We have established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that we consider adequate. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the insolvency assessments.   
   Statutory Insurance Examination.   As part of their regulatory oversight process, state insurance
departments conduct periodic detailed examinations of the books, records, accounts, and business practices of insurers domiciled in their states. State insurance departments also have the authority to conduct examinations of non-domiciliary insurers
that are licensed in their states. During the three-year period ended December 31, 2011, MetLife has not received any material adverse findings resulting from state insurance department examinations of its insurance subsidiaries conducted
during this three-year period.      Regulatory authorities in a small number of states, Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority ( FINRA ) and, occasionally, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), have had investigations or inquiries relating to sales of individual life insurance policies or annuities or other products by
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ), MetLife Securities, Inc., New England Life Insurance Company, New England Securities Corporation, General American Life Insurance Company, Walnut Street Securities, Inc., MICC and Tower
Square Securities, Inc. These investigations often focus on the conduct of particular financial services representatives and the sale of unregistered or unsuitable products or the misuse of client assets. Over the past several years, these and a
number of investigations by other regulatory authorities were resolved for monetary payments and certain other relief, including restitution payments. We may continue to resolve investigations in a similar manner.   
   Policy and Contract Reserve Adequacy Analysis.   Annually, our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are
required to conduct an analysis of the sufficiency of all statutory reserves. In each case, a qualified actuary must submit an opinion which states that the statutory reserves, when considered in light of the assets held with respect to such
reserves, make good and sufficient provision for the associated contractual obligations and related expenses of the insurer. If such an opinion cannot be provided, the insurer must set up additional reserves by moving funds from surplus. Since
inception of this requirement, our U.S. insurance subsidiaries which are required by their states of domicile to provide these opinions have provided such opinions without qualifications.   
   NAIC.   The National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ) is an organization, the
mandate of which is to benefit state insurance regulatory authorities and consumers by promulgating model insurance laws and regulations for adoption by the states. The NAIC provides standardized insurance industry accounting and reporting guidance
through its Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual (the  Manual ). However, statutory accounting principles continue to be established by individual state laws, regulations and permitted practices. Changes to the Manual or
modifications by the various state insurance departments may impact the statutory capital and surplus of MetLife, Inc. s U.S. insurance subsidiaries.       Surplus and Capital; Risk-Based Capital.  Insurers are required to maintain their capital and surplus at or above minimum levels. Regulators have discretionary authority, in connection with the
continued licensing of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries, to limit or prohibit an insurer s sales to policyholders if, in their judgment, the regulators determine that such insurer has not maintained the minimum surplus or capital or that the
further transaction of business will be hazardous to policyholders. Most of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital ( RBC ) requirements and report their RBC based on a formula calculated by applying factors
  
         18   

Table of Contents  

to various asset, premium and statutory reserve items, as well as taking into account the risk characteristics of the insurer. The major categories of risk involved are asset risk, insurance
risk, interest rate risk, market risk and business risk. The formula is used as an early warning regulatory tool to identify possible inadequately capitalized insurers for purposes of initiating regulatory action, and not as a means to rank insurers
generally. State insurance laws provide insurance regulators the authority to require various actions by, or take various actions against, insurers whose RBC ratio does not meet or exceed certain RBC levels. As of the date of the most recent annual
statutory financial statements filed with insurance regulators, the RBC of each of these subsidiaries was in excess of each of those RBC levels. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Capital.       In
late 2009, following rating agency downgrades of virtually all residential mortgage-backed securities ( RMBS ) from certain vintages, the NAIC engaged PIMCO Advisory ( PIMCO ), a provider of investment advisory services, to
analyze approximately 20,000 RMBS held by insurers and evaluate the likely loss that holders of those securities would suffer in the event of a default. PIMCO s analysis showed that the severity of expected losses on those securities evaluated
that are held by our U.S. insurance companies was significantly less than would be implied by the rating agencies  ratings of such securities. The NAIC incorporated the results of PIMCO s analysis into the RBC charges assigned to the
evaluated securities, with a beneficial impact on the RBC of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries. The NAIC utilized the solution again for 2010. The NAIC adopted a similar solution for 2010 for commercial mortgage-backed securities
( CMBS ) by selecting BlackRock Solutions, a provider of investment advisory services, to assist in the RBC determination process. BlackRock Solutions served as a third-party modeler of the 7,000 CMBS holdings of U.S. insurance
companies, including our U.S. insurance subsidiaries. The impact of the implementation for 2010 of the modeling solution for CMBS on our U.S. insurance subsidiaries was minimal. Any revisions to the modeling bases for 2011 are not anticipated
to have a material impact on the RBC of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries.      In 2011, the NAIC adopted a proposal
that permits RBC recognition for the risk mitigation value of the use of derivatives for hedging asset (fixed maturity and equity securities) risk. The adopted measure is effective December 31, 2011 and is anticipated to have a modest, positive
impact on the RBC of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries.       Regulation of Investments.   Each of
our U.S. insurance subsidiaries is subject to state laws and regulations that require diversification of our investment portfolios and limit the amount of investments in certain asset categories, such as below investment grade fixed income
securities, equity real estate, other equity investments, and derivatives. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations would cause investments exceeding regulatory limitations to be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring
surplus and, in some instances, would require divestiture of such non-qualifying investments. We believe that the investments made by each of MetLife, Inc. s U.S. insurance subsidiaries complied, in all material respects, with such regulations
at December 31, 2011.      The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
( Dodd-Frank ) includes provisions that may impact the investments and investment activities of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including the federal regulation of such activities. Until the various final regulations are promulgated
pursuant to Dodd-Frank, and perhaps for some time thereafter, the full impact of Dodd-Frank on such activities will remain unclear. Such provisions and regulations include, but are not limited to, the regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives
markets and prohibitions on covered banking entities engaging in proprietary trading and sponsoring or investing in hedge funds or private equity funds (commonly known as the Volcker Rule). See    Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and
Regulatory Developments   Regulation of Over-the-Counter Derivatives  and    Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory Developments   Volcker Rule.    
   Federal Initiatives.   Although the insurance business in the United States is primarily regulated by the
states, federal initiatives often have an impact on our business in a variety of ways. From time to time, federal measures are proposed which may significantly affect the insurance business. These areas include financial services regulation,
securities regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and   
         19   

Table of Contents  

taxation. In addition, various forms of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal
charter for insurance companies. See    Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory Developments.    
    Financial Holding Company Regulation     
  Once MetLife Bank has completely exited its depository business, MetLife, Inc. plans to terminate MetLife Bank s
FDIC insurance, putting MetLife, Inc. in a position to be able to deregister as a bank holding company. Upon completion of the foregoing, MetLife, Inc. will no longer be regulated as a bank holding company or subject to enhanced supervision and
prudential standards as a bank holding company with assets of $50 billion or more. However, if, in the future, MetLife, Inc. is designated by the Financial Stability Oversight Council ( FSOC ) as a non-bank systemically important financial
institution (as discussed below), it could once again be subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve and enhanced supervision and prudential standards, such as Regulation YY (as discussed below).   
  The FSOC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking in October 2011, outlining the process it will follow and the criteria it
will use to assess whether a non-bank financial company should be subject to enhanced supervision by the Federal Reserve as a non-bank systemically important financial institution. If MetLife, Inc. meets the quantitative thresholds set forth in the
proposal, the FSOC will continue with a further analysis using qualitative and quantitative factors.      In April
2011, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC proposed a rule regarding the implementation of the Dodd-Frank requirement that (i) each non-bank financial company designated by the FSOC for enhanced supervision by the Federal Reserve Board (a
 non-bank systemically important financial institution  or  non-bank SIFI ) and each bank holding company with assets of $50 billion or more report periodically to the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the FSOC the plan of such
company for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure, and (ii) that each such company report on the nature and extent of credit exposures of such company to significant bank holding companies and
significant non-bank financial companies and the nature and extent of credit exposures of significant bank holding companies and significant non-bank financial companies to such covered company. In November 2011, the Federal Reserve Board and the
FDIC adopted a final rule implementing the resolution plan requirement, effective November 30, 2011, but deferred finalizing the credit exposure reporting requirement until a later date. If MetLife, Inc. remains a bank holding company on July 1,
2012, or if, in the future, it is designated by the FSOC as a non-bank SIFI, it would be required to submit a resolution plan. See    Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory Developments   Orderly Liquidation Authority. 
     In December 2011, the Federal Reserve Board issued a release proposing the adoption of enhanced prudential
standards required by Dodd-Frank ( Regulation YY ). Regulation YY would apply to bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more and non-bank systemically important financial institutions. Regulation YY would impose (i) enhanced
RBC requirements, (ii) leverage limits, (iii) liquidity requirements, (iv) single counterparty exposure limits, (v) governance requirements for risk management, (vi) stress test requirements, and (vii) special debt-to-equity limits for certain
companies, and would establish a procedure for early remediation based on the failure to comply with these requirements. The Federal Reserve Board invited comment on, among other things, whether and how to apply these standards to non-bank
systemically important financial institutions. For further information regarding enhanced prudential standards and Regulation YY, see    Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory Developments   Enhanced Prudential
Standards.        Regulatory Agencies.   Currently, as the owner of a federally-chartered
bank, MetLife, Inc. remains a bank holding company and financial holding company. As such, MetLife, Inc continues to be subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the  BHC Act ), and to inspection,
examination, and supervision by the Federal Reserve. In addition, MetLife Bank is subject to regulation and examination primarily by the OCC and the CFPB and secondarily by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC, as described below under   
Banking Regulation.    
         20   

Table of Contents  

    Financial Holding Company Activities.   As a financial
holding company, MetLife, Inc. s activities and investments are restricted by the BHC Act, as amended by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (the  GLB Act ), to those that are  financial  in nature or  incidental 
or  complementary  to such financial activities. Activities that are financial in nature include securities underwriting, dealing and market making, sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies, insurance underwriting and agency,
merchant banking and activities that the Federal Reserve Board has determined to be closely related to banking. In addition, under the insurance company investment portfolio provision of the GLB Act, financial holding companies are authorized to
make investments in other financial and non-financial companies, through their insurance subsidiaries, that are in the ordinary course of business and in accordance with state insurance law, provided the financial holding company does not routinely
manage or operate such companies except as may be necessary to obtain a reasonable return on investment.   
   Capital.   MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Bank are subject to risk-based and leverage capital guidelines
issued by the federal banking regulatory agencies for banks and financial holding companies. The federal banking regulatory agencies are required by law to take specific prompt corrective actions with respect to institutions that do not meet minimum
capital standards. MetLife, Inc. may become required to comply with further requirements relating to the calculation of capital, commonly referred to as  Basel II,  which could require significant investment by the Company, including
software. In addition, in December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the  Basel Committee ) published its final rules for increased capital and liquidity requirements (commonly referred to as  Basel III ) for bank
holding companies, such as MetLife, Inc. Assuming these requirements are endorsed and adopted by the U.S., they are to be phased in beginning January 1, 2013. It is possible that even more stringent capital and liquidity requirements could be
imposed under Basel III and Dodd-Frank as long as MetLife, Inc. remains a bank holding company or if, in the future, it is designated by the FSOC as a non-bank systemically important financial institution. Certain of our international operations
could also be affected by Solvency II, a new capital adequacy regime for the European insurance industry. See    International Regulation.  The ability of MetLife Bank and MetLife, Inc. to pay dividends, repurchase common stock or
other securities or engage in other transactions that could affect its capital or need for capital would be affected by any additional capital requirements that might be imposed as a result of the enactment of Dodd-Frank, Regulation YY and the
endorsement and adoption by the U.S. of Basel III. See    Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory Developments   Enhanced Prudential Standards  and  Risk Factors   Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking
Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth.  At December 31, 2011, MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Bank were in compliance with
applicable requirements currently in effect.      The Federal Reserve s capital plan rule requires all bank
holding companies with assets of more than $50 billion, including MetLife, Inc., to submit annual capital plans which include projections of the company s capital levels under baseline and stress scenarios over a nine-quarter period. The
Federal Reserve will approve or object to a company s proposed capital actions, such as dividends and stock repurchases, based on the results of those capital plans and the Federal Reserve s assessment of the robustness of the
company s capital planning processes. In addition, in recent years, the Federal Reserve has conducted its own assessment of large bank holding companies  internal capital planning processes, capital adequacy and proposed capital
distributions. In 2011, the Federal Reserve conducted the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review of the 19 largest bank holding companies ( CCAR 2011 ), including MetLife, Inc. See  Risk Factors   Our Insurance, Brokerage and
Banking Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth.  In January 2012, MetLife submitted to the Federal Reserve a comprehensive capital
plan, as mandated by the capital plans rule, and additional information required by the 2012 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review ( CCAR 2012 ). The capital plan projects MetLife s capital levels to the end of 2013 under baseline
and stress scenarios, including a stress scenario developed and provided by the Federal Reserve as part of CCAR 2012. MetLife s capital plan was created in accordance with MetLife s capital policy which addresses capital management
objectives, measurement and assessment of capital adequacy, and capital governance and other approval processes for distributions and other uses of capital. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   Capital Management  and  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   Risk Management.  The Federal Reserve has stated that it will consider the results of
the   
         21   

Table of Contents  

capital plan exercise and CCAR 2012 in evaluating proposed capital actions by participating bank holding companies, such as common stock dividend increases and stock repurchases, and that it will
provide its assessment of participating institutions  capital plans in mid-March 2012.       Consumer
Protection Laws.   Numerous other federal and state laws also affect MetLife, Inc. s and MetLife Bank s earnings and activities, including federal and state consumer protection laws. The GLB Act included consumer privacy
provisions that, among other things, require disclosure of a financial institution s privacy policy to customers. In addition, these provisions permit states to adopt more extensive privacy protections through legislation or regulation. As part
of Dodd-Frank, Congress established the CFPB to supervise and regulate institutions that provide certain financial products and services to consumers. Although the consumer financial services subject to the CFPB s jurisdiction generally exclude
insurance business of the kind in which we engage, the CFPB does have authority to regulate consumer services provided by MetLife Bank and non-insurance consumer services provided elsewhere throughout MetLife. See    Dodd-Frank and Other
Legislative and Regulatory Developments   Consumer Protection Laws.          Change of Control
and Restrictions on Mergers and Acquisitions.   Because MetLife, Inc. is a financial holding company and bank holding company, no person may acquire control of MetLife, Inc. without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board. A
change of control is conclusively presumed upon acquisition of 25% or more of any class of voting securities and rebuttably presumed upon acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting securities. Further, as a result of MetLife, Inc. s
ownership of MetLife Bank, approval from the OCC would be required in connection with a change of control (generally presumed upon the acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting securities) of MetLife, Inc. As a result of Dodd-Frank, Federal
Reserve approval is required for any acquisition of a non-bank firm by a bank holding company having more than $10 billion of assets, such as MetLife, Inc. Further, as a bank holding company with assets of $50 billion or more, MetLife,
Inc. will be required to provide prior notice to the Federal Reserve before acquiring control of voting shares of a company engaged in financial activities that has $10 billion or more of consolidated assets.   
    Banking Regulation        As a federally chartered national banking association, MetLife Bank is subject to a wide variety of banking laws, regulations and guidelines. Federal banking and consumer financial protection laws
regulate most aspects of the business of MetLife Bank, but certain state laws may apply as well. MetLife Bank is principally regulated by the OCC and the CFPB and secondarily by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC. Federal banking laws and regulations
address various aspects of MetLife Bank s business and operations with respect to, among other things, chartering to carry on business as a bank; the permissibility of certain activities; maintaining minimum capital ratios; capital management
in relation to the bank s assets; dividend payments and repurchases of securities, including common stock; safety and soundness standards; loan loss and other related liabilities; liquidity; financial reporting and disclosure standards;
counterparty credit concentration; restrictions on related party and affiliate transactions; lending limits; payment of interest; unfair or deceptive acts or practices; privacy; and relationships with MetLife, Inc. in its capacity as a bank holding
company and potentially with other investors in connection with a change of control of MetLife Bank. Dodd-Frank established a statutory standard for Federal preemption of state consumer financial protection laws, which standard will require national
banks to comply with many state consumer financial protection laws that previously were considered preempted by Federal law. The FDIC has the right to assess FDIC-insured banks for funds to help pay the obligations of insolvent banks to depositors.
In addition, Dodd-Frank resulted in increased assessments for MetLife Bank, as a bank with assets of $10 billion or more. Federal and state banking regulators regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to banks and their
products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the bank.        Securities, Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation        Some of our subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance products are subject to extensive regulation under the federal securities laws administered by the SEC. These
subsidiaries issue variable   
         22   

Table of Contents  

annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate accounts that are registered with the SEC as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the
 Investment Company Act ). Each registered separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is itself a registered investment company under the Investment Company Act. In
addition, the variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies issued by these registered separate accounts are registered with the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the  Securities Act ). Other subsidiaries
are registered with the SEC as broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), and are members of, and subject to regulation by, FINRA. Further, some of our subsidiaries are registered as
investment advisers with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the  Investment Advisers Act ), and are also registered as investment advisers in various states, as applicable. Certain variable contract separate
accounts sponsored by our subsidiaries are exempt from registration, but may be subject to other provisions of the federal securities laws.      Federal and state securities regulatory authorities and FINRA from time to time make inquiries and conduct examinations regarding compliance by MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries with securities and other
laws and regulations. We cooperate with such inquiries and examinations and take corrective action when warranted.      Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in the securities markets and generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and enforcement powers,
including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. See    Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory Developments   Regulation of Brokers and Dealers.  We
may also be subject to similar laws and regulations in the foreign countries in which we provide investment advisory services, offer products similar to those described above, or conduct other activities.   
    Environmental Considerations        As an owner and operator of real property, we are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Inherent in such ownership and operation is also the risk that there may
be potential environmental liabilities and costs in connection with any required remediation of such properties. In addition, we hold equity interests in companies that could potentially be subject to environmental liabilities. We routinely have
environmental assessments performed with respect to real estate being acquired for investment and real property to be acquired through foreclosure. We cannot provide assurance that unexpected environmental liabilities will not arise. However, based
on information currently available to us, we believe that any costs associated with compliance with environmental laws and regulations or any remediation of such properties will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations or financial condition.        Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ) Considerations
       We provide products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to ERISA, or the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ). As such, our activities are subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Code, including the requirement under ERISA that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the
interests of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries and the requirement under ERISA and the Code that fiduciaries may not cause a covered plan to engage in prohibited transactions with persons who have certain relationships with respect to such
plans. The applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code are subject to enforcement by the Department of Labor ( DOL ), the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.   
  In  John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company v. Harris Trust and Savings Bank (1993),  the U.S. Supreme Court
held that certain assets in excess of amounts necessary to satisfy guaranteed obligations under a participating group annuity general account contract are  plan assets.  Therefore, these assets are subject to certain fiduciary obligations
under ERISA, which requires fiduciaries to perform their duties solely in the interest of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries. On January 5, 2000, the Secretary of Labor issued final regulations indicating, in cases where an insurer has
issued a policy backed by the insurer s general account to or for an   
         23   

Table of Contents  

employee benefit plan, the extent to which assets of the insurer constitute plan assets for purposes of ERISA and the Code. The regulations apply only with respect to a policy issued by an
insurer on or before December 31, 1998 ( Transition Policy ). No person will generally be liable under ERISA or the Code for conduct occurring prior to July 5, 2001, where the basis of a claim is that insurance company general
account assets constitute plan assets. An insurer issuing a new policy that is backed by its general account and is issued to or for an employee benefit plan after December 31, 1998 will generally be subject to fiduciary obligations under
ERISA, unless the policy is a guaranteed benefit policy.      The regulations indicate the requirements that must
be met so that assets supporting a Transition Policy will not be considered plan assets for purposes of ERISA and the Code. These requirements include detailed disclosures to be made to the employee benefits plan and the requirement that the insurer
must permit the policyholder to terminate the policy on 90 day notice and receive without penalty, at the policyholder s option, either (i) the unallocated accumulated fund balance (which may be subject to market value adjustment) or
(ii) a book value payment of such amount in annual installments with interest. We have taken and continue to take steps designed to ensure compliance with these regulations.   
    Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory Developments     
  Dodd-Frank effected the most far-reaching overhaul of financial regulation in the U.S. in decades. The full impact of
Dodd-Frank on us will depend on the numerous rulemaking initiatives required or permitted by Dodd-Frank and the various studies mandated by Dodd-Frank, which are scheduled to be completed over the next few years. See  Risk Factors  
Various Aspects of Dodd-Frank Could Impact Our Business Operations, Capital Requirements and Profitability and Limit Our Growth.        Federal Regulation .  Dodd-Frank established the Federal Insurance Office within the Department of the Treasury, which has the authority to participate in the negotiations of international
insurance agreements with foreign regulators for the U.S., as well as to collect information about the insurance industry and recommend prudential standards. While not having a general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of
insurance, the director of this office will perform various functions with respect to insurance, including serving as a non-voting member of the FSOC and making recommendations to the FSOC regarding insurers to be designated for more stringent
regulation. The director is also required to submit a report to Congress regarding how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the United States, including by increasing national uniformity through either a federal charter or
effective action by the states.       Enhanced Prudential Standards.   As a large, interconnected
bank holding company with assets of $50 billion or more or, if designated as such by the FSOC, a non-bank systemically important financial institution, MetLife, Inc. will be subject to enhanced prudential standards imposed on such companies.
The FSOC has proposed rules governing the process of how it would designate non-bank financial companies that would be subject to enhanced supervision by the Federal Reserve, but these rules have not become final and no non-bank financial companies
have been so designated.      As proposed, Regulation YY would subject non-bank systemically important financial
institutions to the same enhanced standards as large bank holding companies. Regulation YY would impose (i) enhanced RBC requirements, (ii) leverage limits, (iii) liquidity requirements, (iv) single counterparty exposure limits,
(v) governance requirements for risk management, (vi) stress test requirements, and (vii) special debt-to-equity limits for certain companies, and would establish a procedure for early remediation based on the failure to comply with
these requirements. The Federal Reserve Board invited comment on, among other things, whether and how to apply these standards to non-bank systemically important financial institutions.   
  In addition, if it were determined that MetLife, Inc. posed a substantial threat to U.S. financial stability, the
applicable federal regulators would have the right to require it to take one or more other mitigating actions to reduce that risk, including limiting its ability to merge with or acquire another company, terminating activities, restricting its
ability to offer financial products or requiring it to sell assets or off-balance sheet items to   
         24   

Table of Contents  

unaffiliated entities. Enhanced standards would also permit, but not require, regulators to establish requirements with respect to contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures and short-term
debt limits. These standards are described as being more stringent than those otherwise imposed on bank holding companies; however, the Federal Reserve Board is permitted to apply them on an institution-by-institution basis, depending on its
determination of the institution s riskiness.      MetLife, Inc., as a bank holding company, will have to
meet minimum leverage ratio and RBC requirements on a consolidated basis to be established by the Federal Reserve Board that are not less than those applicable to insured depository institutions under so-called prompt corrective action regulations
as in effect on the date of the enactment of Dodd-Frank. One consequence of these new rules will ultimately be the inability of bank holding companies to include trust-preferred securities as part of their Tier 1 capital. Because of the
phase-in period for these new rules, they should have little practical effect on MetLife s ability to treat its currently outstanding trust-preferred securities as part of its Tier 1 capital, but they do prevent MetLife, Inc. from treating
the common equity units issued originally as part of the consideration for the Acquisition (and since re-sold to the public) as Tier I capital, since the new rules apply immediately to instruments issued after May 19, 2010. See Note 14 of
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on these common equity units.      Under
Dodd-Frank, all bank holding companies that have elected to be treated as financial holding companies, such as MetLife, Inc., are required to be  well capitalized  and  well managed  as defined by the Federal Reserve Board, on a
consolidated basis, and not just at their depository institution(s), a higher standard than was applicable to financial holding companies before Dodd-Frank. If we are unable to meet these standards, we could be subject to activity restrictions,
ultimately be required to divest certain operations and be restricted in our ability to pay dividends, repurchase common stock or other securities or engage in transactions that could affect our capital or need for capital. See  Risk
Factors   Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth.    
   Regulation of Over-the-Counter Derivatives.   Dodd-Frank also includes a new framework of regulation of
the over-the-counter ( OTC ) derivatives markets which will require clearing of certain types of transactions currently traded OTC and could potentially impose additional costs, including new capital, reporting and margin requirements and
additional regulation on the Company. Increased margin requirements on MetLife, Inc. s part, combined with restrictions on securities that will qualify as eligible collateral, could reduce its liquidity and require an increase in its holdings
of cash and government securities with lower yields causing a reduction in income. MetLife, Inc. uses derivatives to mitigate a wide range of risks in connection with its businesses, including the impact of increased benefit exposures from our
annuity products that offer guaranteed benefits. The derivative clearing requirements of Dodd-Frank could increase the cost of our risk mitigation and expose us to the risk of a default by a clearinghouse with respect to MetLife, Inc. s cleared
derivative transactions. In addition, we have always been subject to the risk that hedging and other management procedures might prove ineffective in reducing the risks to which insurance policies expose us or that unanticipated policyholder
behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed. Any such losses could be increased by higher costs of writing derivatives (including customized
derivatives) and the reduced availability of customized derivatives that might result from the enactment of Dodd-Frank.       Volcker Rule.   Dodd-Frank restricts the ability of insured depository institutions and of companies, such as MetLife, Inc., that control an insured depository institution, and their
affiliates, to engage in proprietary trading and to sponsor or invest in funds (hedge funds and private equity funds) that rely on certain exemptions from the Investment Company Act. Dodd-Frank provides an exemption for investment activity by a
regulated insurance company or its affiliate solely for the general account of such insurance company if such activity is in compliance with the insurance company investment laws of the state or jurisdiction in which such company is domiciled and
the appropriate Federal regulators after consultation with relevant insurance commissioners have not jointly determined such laws to be insufficient to protect the safety and soundness of the institution or the financial stability of the
U.S. Other exemptions, including, but not limited to, activities for risk-mitigating   
         25   

Table of Contents  

hedging and activities on behalf of customers, may be available for the general account or separate account activities of insurance companies. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the appropriate
Federal regulatory authorities are permitted under the legislation to impose, as part of rulemaking, additional capital requirements and other restrictions on any exempted activity. Dodd-Frank provides for a period of rulemaking during which the
effects of the statutory language may be clarified. Among other things, one task of the rulemaking is to appropriately accommodate the business of insurance within an insurance company subject to regulation in accordance with relevant insurance
company investments laws. Until the rulemaking is complete, including the scope of the statutory exemptions to be applied to insurance companies for each of the prohibitions on proprietary trading and fund sponsoring or investing, it is unclear
whether MetLife, Inc. may have to alter any of its future activities to comply, including continuing to invest in private investment funds for its general accounts or to issue certain insurance products backed by its separate accounts. See
 Risk Factors   Various Aspects of Dodd-Frank Could Impact Our Business Operations, Capital Requirements and Profitability and Limit Our Growth.    
   Consumer Protection Laws .  Dodd-Frank established the CFPB that supervises and regulates institutions
providing certain financial products and services to consumers. Although the consumer financial services to which this legislation applies exclude insurance business of the kind in which we engage, the CFPB has authority to regulate consumer
services provided by MetLife Bank and non-insurance consumer services provided elsewhere throughout MetLife. Dodd-Frank established a statutory standard for Federal preemption of state consumer financial protection laws, which standard may require
national banks to comply with many state consumer financial protection laws that previously were considered preempted by Federal law. The scope of this new standard is currently the matter of some dispute between the Comptroller of the Currency and
some state attorneys general, and there have been judicial decisions holding that Dodd-Frank did not change the pre-existing preemption standard as established in earlier judicial decisions. As a result of the new standard, whatever its scope is
finally determined to be, the regulatory and compliance burden on MetLife Bank may increase, which could adversely affect its business and results of operations. Dodd-Frank also includes provisions on mortgage lending, anti-predatory lending and
other regulatory and supervisory provisions that could also impact the business and operations of MetLife Bank.   
   Orderly Liquidation Authority.   Under the provisions of Dodd-Frank relating to the resolution or
liquidation of certain types of financial institutions, including bank holding companies, if MetLife, Inc. were to become insolvent or were in danger of defaulting on its obligations, it could be compelled to undergo liquidation with the FDIC as
receiver. For this new regime to be applicable, a number of determinations would have to be made, including that a default by the affected company would have serious adverse effects on financial stability in the U.S. If the FDIC were to be
appointed as the receiver for such a company, the liquidation of that company would occur under the provisions of the new liquidation authority, and not under the Bankruptcy Code. In such a liquidation, the holders of such company s debt could
in certain respects be treated differently than under the Bankruptcy Code. In particular, unsecured creditors and shareholders are intended to bear the losses of the company being liquidated. As required by Dodd-Frank, the FDIC has established rules
relating to the priority of creditors  claims and the potentially dissimilar treatment of similarly situated creditors. These provisions could apply to some financial institutions whose outstanding debt securities we hold in our investment
portfolios. Dodd-Frank also provides for the assessment of bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more, non-bank SIFIs, and other financial companies with assets of $50 billion or more to cover the costs of liquidating any
financial company subject to the new liquidation authority. In addition, regulations have been issued by the FDIC and the Federal Reserve Board regarding the advance preparation of resolution plans by all non-bank SIFIs and bank holding companies
with $50 billion or more of assets. The largest institutions will have to submit resolution plans by July 1, 2012. Under the rule, if MetLife, Inc. remains a bank holding company on this date, or if, in the future, it is designated by the FSOC
as a non-bank systemically important financial institution, it would be required to submit a resolution plan. Resolution plans would have to be resubmitted annually and promptly following any event, occurrence, change in conditions or circumstances,
or other change that results in, or could reasonably be foreseen to have, a material effect on the resolution plan. A failure to submit a  credible  resolution plan could result in the imposition a variety of measures, including additional
capital, leverage, or liquidity requirements, and forced divestiture of assets or operations.   
         26   

Table of Contents  

    Regulation of Brokers and Dealers.   Dodd-Frank also
authorizes the SEC to establish a standard of conduct applicable to brokers and dealers when providing personalized investment advice to retail and other customers. This standard of conduct would be to act in the best interest of the customer
without regard to the financial or other interest of the broker or dealer providing the advice.       Source of
Strength .  Dodd-Frank statutorily imposes the requirement that MetLife, Inc. serve as a source of strength for MetLife Bank.      We cannot predict what other proposals may be made, what legislation may be introduced or enacted or the impact of any such legislation on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
      International Regulation       Our international operations are regulated in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. This regulation includes minimum capital, solvency and operational requirements. The authority of our
international operations to conduct business is subject to licensing requirements, permits and approvals, and these authorizations are subject to modification and revocation. Periodic examinations of insurance company books and records, financial
reporting requirements, market conduct examinations and policy filing requirements are among the techniques used by regulators to supervise our non-U.S. insurance businesses. We also have investment and pension companies in certain foreign
jurisdictions that provide mutual fund, pension and other financial products and services. Those entities are subject to securities, investment, pension and other laws and regulations, and oversight by the relevant securities, pension and other
authorities of the countries in which the companies operate. In some jurisdictions, some of our insurance products are considered  securities  under local law and may be subject to local securities regulations and oversight by local
securities regulators.      Our international operations are exposed to increased political, legal, financial,
operational and other risks. Our international operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators, such as through nationalization or expropriation of assets, the imposition of limits
on foreign ownership of local companies, changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation, political instability, dividend limitations, price controls, currency exchange controls or other restrictions that
prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies, as well as other adverse actions by foreign governmental
authorities and regulators. Such actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions. See  Risk Factors   Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and
Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability  and  Risk Factors   Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory
and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth.       Certain of our
international insurance operations may be subject to assessments, generally based on their proportionate share of business written in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations to policyholders and claimants resulting from the insolvency of
insurance companies. We cannot predict the timing and scope of any assessments that may be made in the future, which may materially affect the results of operations of our international insurance operations in particular quarterly or annual periods.
     Annually, many of our international insurance operations are required to conduct an analysis of the
sufficiency of all statutory reserves. In most of those cases, a locally qualified actuary must submit an analysis of the likelihood that the reserves make good and sufficient provision for the associated contractual obligations and related expenses
of the insurer. Local regulatory and actuarial standards for this vary widely; the required implied certainty of the signing actuary s opinion varies equally widely.   
  We are also subject to the evolving Solvency II insurance regulatory directive for each of our insurance operations
throughout the European Economic Area. The European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority ( EIOPA ) established Solvency II as a new capital adequacy regime for the European insurance
  
         27   

Table of Contents  

industry. Currently, the EIOPA anticipates final proposals for standards and guidelines to be published in September 2012. Implementation is under discussion within EIOPA, but we are proceeding
with our plan for readiness by January 1, 2013. Our Solvency II program is governed by a steering committee comprised of senior management. Solvency II encompasses solvency capital requirements, allows for both standard model and internal model
calculations, requires a robust governance and risk management framework fully embedded in day-to-day decision making and greater quarterly and annual reporting disclosures. As requirements are finalized by the regulators, capital requirements might
be impacted in a number of jurisdictions. Compliance with these new capital standards may impact the level of capital required to be held at individual legal entities. Further, the efforts required to comply with these regulations may increase
operating costs at these entities. See  Risk Factors   Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our
Growth.       We expect the scope and extent of regulation outside of the U.S., as well as regulatory
oversight, generally to continue to increase. That oversight, and the legal and regulatory environment in the countries in which we operate, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.   
    Japan        Our operations in Japan are subject to regulation and examination by Japan s Financial Services Agency ( FSA ). Our operations in Japan are required to file with the FSA annual reports for
each fiscal year (ending March 31) which include financial statements. These annual reports are not prepared on a U.S. GAAP basis. Similar to the U.S., Japanese law provides that insurers in Japan must maintain specified solvency standards for
the protection of policyholders and to support the financial strength of licensed insurers. As of September 30, 2011, the date of our most recent regulatory filing in Japan, the solvency margin ratio of our Japan operations was 1,529.5%, which
is significantly in excess of the legally mandated solvency margin of 200% in Japan. Most Japanese life insurers maintain a solvency margin ratio well in excess of the legally mandated minimum. The FSA will apply a revised method of calculating the
solvency margin ratio of life insurance companies in Japan for the next fiscal year-end, which is March 31, 2012, and required the disclosure of the ratio calculated on this new basis as reference information for the last fiscal year-end, which
was March 31, 2011. As of September 30, 2011, the solvency margin of our Japan operations calculated on this new basis was 923.9%. We do not expect our relative position within the industry to materially change as a result of the
application of this revised method.      A portion of the annual earnings of our Japan operations may be
repatriated each year, and may further be distributed to MetLife, Inc. as a dividend. We may determine not to repatriate profits from the Japan operations or to repatriate a reduced amount in order to maintain or improve the solvency margin of the
Japan operations or for other reasons. In addition, the FSA may limit or not permit profit repatriations or other transfers of funds to the U.S. if such transfers would be detrimental to the solvency or financial strength of our Japan operations or
for other reasons.      Our operations in Japan are subject to assessments to cover obligations to policyholders
in the event of insolvency of other insurance companies. Under the Japanese Insurance Business Law, all licensed life insurers in Japan are assessed on an annual basis by the Life Insurance Policyholders Protection Corporation of Japan. These
assessments are aggregated across all licensed life insurers in Japan and used to satisfy certain obligations to policyholders and claimants of insolvent life insurance companies. We cannot predict the amount of future assessments, which may
materially affect our results of operations in Japan in particular quarterly or annual periods.       Competition
      We believe that competition faced by our segments is based on a number of factors, including service,
product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business capabilities and name recognition. We compete in the U.S. and internationally, with other insurance companies, as well as non-insurance financial
services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers, employer and other group customers as well as agents and other distributors of insurance and   
         28   

Table of Contents  

investment products. Some of these companies offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to other insurance companies, have higher claims paying ability
ratings. Our U.S. Business competes in the U.S. with over 1,000 other U.S. and foreign-owned companies. In Japan, we compete with over 40 domestic and foreign-owned life insurance companies, many of which offer products in categories on which we
focus: accident and health insurance, life insurance, and annuities. However, we typically have two to three main competitors per product category. Elsewhere, we compete with the foreign insurance operations of large U.S. insurers and with global
insurance groups and local companies in particular areas in which they are active. Many of our group insurance products are underwritten annually and, accordingly, there is a risk that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from
competitors rather than renewing coverage with us. See  Risk Factors   Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and Profitability.    
  We believe that the turbulence in financial markets that began in the second half of 2007, its impact on the capital
position of many competitors, and subsequent actions by regulators and rating agencies have altered the competitive environment. In particular, we believe that these factors have highlighted financial strength as the most significant differentiator
from the perspective of some customers and certain distributors. We believe the Company is well positioned to compete in this environment. In particular, the Company distributes many of its individual products through other financial institutions
such as banks and broker-dealers. These distribution partners are currently placing greater emphasis on the financial strength of the company whose products they sell. In addition, the financial market turbulence has highlighted the extent of the
risk associated with certain variable annuity products and has led many companies in our industry to re-examine the pricing and features of the products they offer. The effects of current market conditions may also lead to consolidation in the life
insurance industry. Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of these conditions, we believe that the strongest companies will enjoy a competitive advantage as a result of the current circumstances.   
  We must attract and retain productive sales representatives to sell our insurance, annuities and investment products.
Insurance companies compete for sales representatives with demonstrated ability. We compete with other insurance companies for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services and compensation and product
features. See    U.S. Business   Sales Distribution.  In selected global markets, we continue to undertake several initiatives to grow our career agency forces, while continuing to enhance the efficiency and
production of our existing sales forces. We cannot provide assurance that these initiatives will succeed in attracting and retaining productive agents. Sales of individual insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of operations
and financial position could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining productive agents. See  Risk Factors   We May Be Unable to Attract and Retain Sales Representatives for Our
Products.       Numerous aspects of our business are subject to regulation. Legislative and other changes
affecting the regulatory environment can affect our competitive position within the life insurance industry and within the broader financial services industry. See    U.S. Regulation,     International
Regulation,   Risk Factors   Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth,   Risk Factors   Governmental and
Regulatory Actions for the Purpose of Stabilizing and Revitalizing the Financial Markets and Protecting Investors and Consumers May Not Achieve the Intended Effect or Could Adversely Affect Our Competitive Position  and  Risk
Factors   Changes in U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations, and State Insurance Regulations Regarding Suitability of Annuity Product Sales, May Affect Our Operations and Our Profitability.    
   Employees       At December 31, 2011, we had approximately 67,000 employees. We believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory.   
         29   

Table of Contents  

    Executive Officers of the Registrant    
  Set forth below is information regarding the executive officers of MetLife, Inc.:   
   Steven J. Goulart,  age 53, has been Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer of MetLife, Inc. since
May 2011. Previously, he was Treasurer of MetLife, Inc. from July 2009 to April 2011, head of the Portfolio Management Unit as Senior Managing Director of MLIC from January 2011 to April 2011, and head of the Mergers   Acquisitions
Unit as Senior Vice President of MLIC from November 2006 to July 2009 and as Director of MetLife Group, Inc. from June to November 2006. Before joining MetLife in 2006, Mr. Goulart was senior managing director in Bear Stearns  financial
institutions group, managing director in Morgan Stanley s global insurance group and managing director in the financial institutions group at Merrill Lynch.   
   Frans Hijkoop,  age 51, has been Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of MetLife, Inc. since
August 2011. Previously, he was chief personnel officer and senior vice president of human resources for the American Foods division of PepsiCo Inc. from January 2008 to August 2011 and chief personnel officer and senior vice president of human
resources for PepsiCo International from February 2007 to January 2008. Prior to that he was an executive committee member and group human resources director of Lloyds TSB from January 2004 to February 2007.   
   Beth Hirschhorn,  age 47, has been Executive Vice President, Global Brand, Marketing and Communications of MetLife,
Inc. since November 1, 2011. Previously, she was Chief Marketing Officer and Senior Vice President of MetLife, Inc. from November 2006 to October 2011, and managed marketing for the U.S. Individual and Institutional businesses as Vice President
of MLIC from January 2003 to November 2006. Before joining MetLife in 2002, she led the consumer financial services marketing unit at JP Morgan Chase.       Steven A. Kandarian,  age 59, has been Chairman of the Board of MetLife, Inc. since January 2012 and President and Chief Executive Officer of MetLife, Inc. since May 2011. Previously, he was
Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer of MetLife, Inc. from April 2005 to April 2011. Before joining MetLife, he was the executive director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation from 2001 to 2004. Mr. Kandarian was founder
and managing partner of Orion Capital Partners, where he managed a private equity fund specializing in venture capital and corporate acquisitions.       Michel Khalaf,  age 48, has been President, EMEA, of MetLife, Inc. since November 21, 2011. He joined MetLife as a result of the Acquisition. Mr. Khalaf served as Executive Vice President
of MLIC from January 2011 until November 2011, and was Regional President, Middle East, Africa and South Asia of American Life from January 2009 until November 2011. Prior to the Acquisition, Mr. Khalaf had been deputy president and chief
operating officer of Philamlife, the operating company of AIG in the Philippines, from August 2006 to October 2008. Mr. Khalaf has also held a number of leadership roles with ALICO in various markets around the world, including Poland, Egypt,
Italy, France, and the Caribbean.       Nicholas D. Latrenta,  age 60, has been Executive Vice President of
MetLife, Inc. since August 2010 and General Counsel of MetLife, Inc. since May 2010. Previously, he was Senior Chief Counsel of MLIC supporting the Insurance Group from March 2007 to April 2010, the Institutional Business, ERISA and Product Tax
Legal Group from April 2006 to February 2007, and MetLife Business from July 2004 to March 2006. He also served as Senior Vice President of MLIC Institutional Business from October 2000 to June 2004. Mr. Latrenta joined the Company in 1969 and
has served in various senior management positions since that time.       Martin Lippert,  age 52, joined
MetLife in September 2011 as Executive Vice President and Head of Global Technology of MetLife, Inc. and has been Executive Vice President and Head of Global Technology and Operations of MetLife, Inc. since November 2011. Before joining MetLife, he
was chief operations and technology officer for Citigroup from July 2008 to March 2009, and was vice chairman and group head of global technology and operations for Royal Bank of Canada from August 1997 to July 2008.   
         30   

Table of Contents  

    Maria R. Morris,  age 49, has been Executive Vice President and Head
of Global Employee Benefits of MetLife, Inc. since November 2011. Previously, she was Executive Vice President, Global Operations, Integration, of MetLife, Inc. from September 2011 to November 2011, and Executive Vice President, Technology and
Operations, of MetLife, Inc. from January 2008 to September 2011. Previously, she was Executive Vice President, Employee Benefits Sales of MLIC from December 2005 to January 2008, Senior Vice President of Group Insurance and Voluntary Benefits Sales
and Service Operations of MLIC from July 2003 to December 2005, and Vice President from March 1997 to July 2003.       Eric T. Steigerwalt,  age 50, has been Executive Vice President and Interim Chief Financial Officer for MetLife, Inc. since November 2011. He has been Executive Vice President of MLIC since January
2010, prior to which he served as Senior Vice President of MLIC from June 2000 to December 2009 and Vice President of MLIC from September 1998 to June 2000. Mr. Steigerwalt also served as Senior Vice President of MetLife, Inc. from June 2000
through July 2009, and served as Treasurer of MetLife, Inc. from May 2007 to July 2009. As an officer of MLIC, he served as chief financial officer for U.S. Business from August 2009 to November 2011, chief financial officer for Individual Business
from 2002 to 2003 and head of Investor Relations from 2000 to 2002.       William J. Wheeler,  age 50, has
been President, The Americas, of MetLife, Inc. since November 21, 2011. Previously, he was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MetLife, Inc. from December 2003 to November 2011, prior to which he was a Senior Vice President
of MLIC from 1997 to December 2003. Prior to his appointment as Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Wheeler oversaw business development, product management and marketing activities for Individual Business and served as chief financial officer of
Individual Business. Before joining MLIC in 1997 as treasurer, he was senior vice president at Donaldson, Lufkin   Jenrette, a position he held for more than five years.   
   Trademarks       We have a worldwide trademark portfolio that we consider important in the marketing of our products and services, including, among others, the trademark  MetLife.  We also have the exclusive
license to use the Peanuts      characters in the area of financial services and healthcare benefit services in the
U.S. and internationally under an advertising and premium agreement with Peanuts Worldwide, LLC until December 31, 2014. We also have a non-exclusive license to use certain Citigroup-owned trademarks in connection with the marketing,
distribution or sale of life insurance and annuity products under a licensing agreement with Citigroup until June 30, 2015. Furthermore, as result of the Acquisition, we acquired American Life and its trademarks, including the  Alico 
trademark. We believe that our rights in our trademarks and under our Peanuts      characters license and our
Citigroup license are well protected.       Available Information    
  MetLife files periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and
other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at its Headquarters Office, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-202-551-8090 or 1-800-SEC-0330 (Office of Investor
Education and Advocacy). In addition, the SEC maintains an internet website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including MetLife, Inc.   
  MetLife makes available, free of charge, on its website (www.metlife.com) through the Investor Relations page, its annual
reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to all those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing (furnishing) such reports to the SEC. Other information found on
the website is not part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.   
         31   

Table of Contents  

          Item 1A.     Risk Factors
         Difficult Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy Generally May Materially Adversely Affect
Our Business and Results of Operations and These Conditions May Not Improve in the Near Future        Our
business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally. Stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in global capital markets, particular markets, or financial asset
classes can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and our insurance liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. Global market factors, including interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices,
real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, deflation and inflation, all affect the business and economic environment and,
ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. Disruptions in one market or asset class can also spread to other markets or asset classes. Upheavals in the financial markets can also affect our business through their effects on general
levels of economic activity, employment and customer behavior. While our diversified business mix and geographically diverse business operations partially mitigate these risks, correlation across regions, countries and global market factors may
reduce the benefits of diversification.      Volatile conditions have continued to characterize financial markets
at times, and not all global financial markets are functioning normally. Significant market volatility, and government actions taken in response, may exacerbate some of the risks we face. Beginning in 2010 and continuing throughout 2011, concerns
increased about capital markets and the solvency of certain European Union member states, including Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain ( Europe s perimeter region ), and of financial institutions that have significant direct
or indirect exposure to debt issued by these countries. This, in turn, created market volatility which will continue to affect the performance of various asset classes in 2012, and perhaps longer, until there is an ultimate resolution of these
sovereign debt-related concerns. As a result of concerns about the ability of Europe s perimeter region to service their sovereign debt, these countries have experienced credit ratings downgrades, including the downgrade of Greece s
sovereign debt in July 2011 by Moody s Investors Service, Inc. ( Moody s ) and Standard   Poor s Ratings Services ( S P ) to Ca and CC ratings, respectively   rating designations of likely in, or very
near, default. On February 27, 2012, S P downgraded Greece s credit rating to SD, a rating of selective default. Despite support programs for Europe s perimeter region, concerns about the ability to service sovereign debt
subsequently expanded to other European Union member states. As a result, in late 2011 and early 2012, several other European Union member states have experienced credit ratings downgrades or have had their credit ratings outlook changed to
negative. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Investments   Current Environment.  The Japanese economy, to which we face substantial exposure given our operations
there, was significantly negatively impacted by the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami. Although we expect modest growth in the Japanese economy during 2012, disruptions to the Japanese economy are having, and will continue to have, negative impacts
on the overall global economy, not all of which can be foreseen. Although the August 2011 downgrade by S P of U.S. Treasury securities initially had an adverse effect on financial markets, the extent of the longer-term impact cannot be
predicted. In November 2011, Fitch Ratings ( Fitch ) warned that it may in the future downgrade the U.S. credit rating unless action is taken to reduce the national debt of the U.S. It is possible that the August 2011 S P downgrade and
any future downgrades, as well as continued concerns about U.S. fiscal policy and the trajectory of the national debt of the U.S., could have severe repercussions to the U.S. and global credit and financial markets, further exacerbate concerns over
sovereign debt of other countries and could disrupt economic activity in the U.S. and elsewhere. See    Concerns Over U.S. Fiscal Policy and the Trajectory of the National Debt of the U.S., as well as Rating Agency Downgrades of U.S.
Treasury Securities, Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Investments  
Current Environment.       Our revenues and net investment income are likely to remain under pressure in
uncertain financial market conditions and as a result of low interest rates and our profit margins could erode. Also, in the event of extreme   
         32   

Table of Contents  

prolonged market events, such as the recent global credit crisis, we could incur significant capital and/or operating losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to
substantial risk of loss due to market volatility.      We are a significant writer of variable insurance products
and certain other products issued through separate accounts. The account values of these products decrease as a result of declining equity markets. Decreases in account values reduce fees generated by these products, cause the amortization of
deferred policy acquisition costs ( DAC ) to accelerate and could increase the level of insurance liabilities we must carry to support such products issued with any associated guarantees.   
  Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital
markets, deflation and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate
earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. Group insurance, in particular, is affected by the higher unemployment rate. In addition, we may
experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. Adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings
negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.      The recent financial crisis has precipitated, and may continue to raise the possibility of, legislative, judicial, regulatory and other governmental actions. We cannot predict whether or when such actions
may occur, nor can we predict what ultimate impact, if any, either such actions or any of the legislative, judicial, regulatory and other governmental actions of the last several years could have on our business, results of operations and financial
condition. See    Governmental and Regulatory Actions for the Purpose of Stabilizing and Revitalizing the Financial Markets and Protecting Investors and Consumers May Not Achieve the Intended Effect or Could Adversely Affect Our
Competitive Position,     Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth, 
   Various Aspects of Dodd-Frank Could Impact Our Business Operations, Capital Requirements and Profitability and Limit Our Growth,  and    Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and Profitability. 
       Concerns Over U.S. Fiscal Policy and the Trajectory of the National Debt of the U.S., as well as Rating Agency
Downgrades of U.S. Treasury Securities, Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations        Concerns over U.S. fiscal policy and the trajectory of the national debt could have severe repercussions to the U.S. and global credit and financial markets, further exacerbate concerns over sovereign
debt of other countries and disrupt economic activity in the U.S. and elsewhere. As a result, our access to, or cost of, liquidity may deteriorate.      In August 2011, S P downgraded the AAA rating on U.S. Treasury securities to AA+ with a negative outlook, while Moody s affirmed the Aaa rating on U.S. Treasury securities, but with a negative
outlook. In October 2011, Moody s affirmed its August 2011 ratings, but revised its negative outlook to stable. In November 2011, Fitch affirmed its AAA rating on U.S. Treasury securities but changed its U.S. credit rating outlook to negative
from stable, citing the failure of a special Congressional committee to agree on certain deficit reduction measures and warning that it may in the future downgrade the U.S. credit rating unless action is taken to reduce the national debt of the U.S.
     As a result of downgrades of U.S. Treasury securities, the market value of some of our investments may
decrease, and our capital adequacy could be adversely affected, which could require us to raise additional capital during a period of distress in financial markets, potentially at a higher cost. Further downgrades, together with the sustained
current trajectory of the national debt of the U.S., would significantly exacerbate the risks we face and any resulting adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including those
  
         33   

Table of Contents  

described under    Difficult Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy Generally May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations and These
Conditions May Not Improve in the Near Future,     Adverse Capital and Credit Market Conditions May Significantly Affect Our Ability to Meet Liquidity Needs, Access to Capital and Cost of Capital,     Our Participation
in a Securities Lending Program Subjects Us to Potential Liquidity and Other Risks  and    The Determination of the Amount of Allowances and Impairments Taken on Our Investments is Subjective and Could Materially Impact Our Results of
Operations or Financial Position.  We cannot predict whether or when these adverse consequences may occur, what other unforeseen consequences may result, or the extent, severity and duration of the impact of such consequences on our business,
results of operations and financial condition.        Governmental and Regulatory Actions for the Purpose of Stabilizing and
Revitalizing the Financial Markets and Protecting Investors and Consumers May Not Achieve the Intended Effect or Could Adversely Affect Our Competitive Position     
  In recent years, Congress, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, the U.S. Treasury and other agencies of the U.S. federal
government have taken a number of increasingly aggressive actions (including a series of interest rate reductions that began in the second half of 2007) intended to provide liquidity to financial institutions and markets, to avert a loss of investor
confidence in particular troubled institutions, to prevent or contain the spread of the financial crisis and to spur economic growth. Most of these programs have largely run their course or been discontinued. More likely to be relevant to us are the
monetary policy implemented by the Federal Reserve and the implementation of Dodd-Frank, which will significantly change financial regulation in the U.S. in a number of areas that could affect us. Given the large number of provisions of Dodd-Frank
that must be implemented through regulatory action and the delay with which some aspects of this implementation are taking place, we cannot predict what impact this could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The
impact of Dodd-Frank implementation will also be affected by MetLife Bank s pending actions to exit the depository business, MetLife Bank s decision to exit the forward mortgage origination business, MetLife, Inc. s intention to
deregister as a bank holding company, and Dodd-Frank rulemaking initiatives relating to non-bank systemically important financial institutions. See    Various Aspects of Dodd-Frank Could Impact Our Business Operations, Capital Requirements
and Profitability and Limit Our Growth  and  Business   U.S. Regulation   Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory Developments.    
  The Federal Reserve Board has taken a number of actions in recent years to spur economic activity by keeping interest
rates low and may take further actions to influence interest rates in the future, which may have an impact on the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments, and may adversely impact the level of product sales. There can be no assurance that these
actions will have the intended effect or what impact, if any, these actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition.      In addition, the U.S. federal government (including the FDIC) and private lenders have instituted programs to reduce the monthly payment obligations of mortgagors and/or reduce the principal payable on
residential mortgage loans. As a result of such programs or of any legislation requiring loan modifications, we may need to maintain or increase our engagement in similar activities in order to comply with program or statutory requirements and to
remain competitive. Increased attention is also being paid to the practices of lenders in connection with the mortgage modification process.      We cannot predict whether the funds made available by the U.S. federal government and its agencies, or other actions taken by the government, will stabilize or further revive the financial markets or harm
them or, if the U.S. federal government decides to distribute additional amounts, either by Federal Reserve Board action or by Congressional appropriation, whether those additional actions will have positive or negative effects.   
  The choices made by the U.S. Treasury, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC in their distribution of funds under any future
asset purchase programs, as well as any decisions made regarding the imposition of additional regulation on large financial institutions may have, over time, the effect of supporting or burdening some aspects of the financial services industry more
than others. Some of our competitors have received, or may in the future   
         34   

Table of Contents  

receive, benefits under one or more of the federal government s programs. This could adversely affect our competitive position. See    Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking
Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth,     Governmental and Regulatory Actions for the Purpose of Stabilizing and
Revitalizing the Financial Markets and Protecting Investors and Consumers May Not Achieve the Intended Effect or Could Adversely Affect Our Competitive Position,  and    Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and
Profitability.         Adverse Capital and Credit Market Conditions May Significantly Affect Our Ability to Meet
Liquidity Needs, Access to Capital and Cost of Capital        The capital and credit markets are sometimes
subject to periods of extreme volatility and disruption. Such volatility and disruption could cause liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers to be limited.   
  We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock, maintain our
securities lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer. The principal sources of our liquidity are insurance premiums, annuity
considerations, deposit funds, and cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash. Sources of liquidity in normal markets also include short-term instruments such as
funding agreements and commercial paper. Sources of capital in normal markets include long-term instruments, medium- and long-term debt, junior subordinated debt securities, capital securities and equity securities.   
  In the event market or other conditions have an adverse impact on our capital and liquidity, or any required regulatory
stress-testing indicates that such conditions could have such an impact beyond expectations and our current resources do not satisfy our needs or regulatory requirements, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional
financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, regulatory considerations, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our
credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity
decreases due to a market downturn. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. Our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient and, in such case, we
may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all.      Our liquidity
requirements may change if, among other things, we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on short notice under securities lending agreements.   
  Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to
operate our business, most significantly our insurance operations. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy regulatory capital requirements (under both insurance and banking laws);
and access the capital necessary to grow our business. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations   Industry Trends   Regulatory Changes.  See also  Business   U.S.
Regulation   Financial Holding Company Regulation  for information relating to the possible impact on us of Regulation YY, Basel II and Basel III,  Business   U.S. Regulation   Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory
Developments  for a discussion of the possible impact on us of Dodd-Frank, and  Business   International Regulation  for information relating to Solvency II. As a result, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue different
types of securities than we would have otherwise, less effectively deploy such capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our
financial flexibility. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets.   
         35   

Table of Contents  

     Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in
Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth         Insurance Regulation   U.S.  Our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Insurance
Regulation.  State insurance laws regulate most aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and our U.S insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance regulators of the states in which they are domiciled and the states in which they are
licensed.      State laws in the U.S. grant insurance regulatory and other state authorities broad administrative
powers with respect to, among other things:       

licensing companies and agents to transact business;      

calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements;      

mandating certain insurance benefits;          

regulating certain premium rates;          

reviewing and approving policy forms;          

regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution
arrangements and payment of inducements, and identifying and paying to the states benefits and other property that is not claimed by the owners;          

regulating advertising;          

protecting privacy;          

establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards;      

fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity
contracts;          

approving changes in control of insurance companies;      

restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; and      

regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments.      
  State insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess insurance companies doing business in their state for
funds to help pay the obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. Because the amount and timing of an assessment is beyond our control, the liabilities that we have currently established for these potential
liabilities may not be adequate. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Insurance Regulation   Guaranty Associations and Similar Arrangements.    
  State insurance regulators and the NAIC regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance
companies and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, that are made for the benefit of the consumer sometimes lead to additional expense for the insurer and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on
our financial condition and results of operations.       U.S. Federal Regulation Affecting
Insurance .  Currently, the U.S. federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance. However, Dodd-Frank allows federal regulators to compel state insurance regulators to liquidate an insolvent insurer under some
circumstances if the state regulators have not acted within a specific period. It also establishes the Federal Insurance Office within the Department of the Treasury, which has the authority to participate in the negotiations of international
insurance agreements with foreign regulators for the U.S., as well as to collect information about the insurance industry and recommend prudential standards.   
         36   

Table of Contents  

While not having a general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the director of this office will perform various functions with respect to insurance, including
serving as a non-voting member of the FSOC and making recommendations to the FSOC regarding insurers to be designated for more stringent regulation. The director is also required to submit a report to Congress regarding how to modernize and improve
the system of insurance regulation in the United States, including by increasing national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by the states.   
  Federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas can significantly and adversely affect insurance
companies. These areas include financial services regulation, securities regulation, derivatives regulation, mortgage regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In addition, various forms
of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal charter for insurance companies. Other aspects of our insurance operations could also be
affected by Dodd-Frank. For example, Dodd-Frank imposes restrictions on the ability of affiliates of insured depository institutions (such as MetLife Bank) to engage in proprietary trading or sponsor or invest in hedge funds or private equity funds.
See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory Developments   Volcker Rule.        Banking and Bank Holding Company Regulation .  As a federally chartered national banking association, MetLife Bank is subject to a wide variety of banking laws, regulations and guidelines.
Federal banking and consumer financial protection laws regulate most aspects of the business of MetLife Bank, but certain state laws may apply as well. MetLife Bank is principally regulated by the OCC and the CFPB, and secondarily by the Federal
Reserve and the FDIC.      Federal banking laws and regulations address various aspects of MetLife Bank s
business and operations with respect to, among other things:       

chartering to carry on business as a bank;          

the permissibility of certain activities;          

maintaining minimum capital ratios;          

capital management in relation to the bank s assets;      

dividend payments and repurchases of securities, including common stock;      

safety and soundness standards;          

loan loss and other related liabilities;          

liquidity;          

financial reporting and disclosure standards;          

counterparty credit concentration;          

restrictions on related party and affiliate transactions;      

lending limits (and, in addition, Dodd-Frank includes the credit exposures arising from securities lending by MetLife Bank within lending limits
otherwise applicable to loans);          

payment of interest;          

unfair or deceptive acts or practices;          

mortgage servicing practices;          

privacy; and          

relationships with MetLife, Inc. in its capacity as a bank holding company and potentially with other investors in connection with a change in
control of MetLife Bank.      
         37   

Table of Contents  

   Federal banking regulators regularly re-examine existing laws and
regulations applicable to banks and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the bank and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on
the financial condition and results of operations of MetLife Bank.      From 2008 until January 2012, MetLife Bank
significantly increased its mortgage servicing activities by acquiring servicing portfolios. Currently, MetLife Bank services approximately 1% of the aggregate principal amount of the mortgage loans serviced in the U.S. In January 2012, MetLife,
Inc. announced that MetLife Bank was exiting its forward mortgage origination business. The Company continues to originate reverse mortgages and will continue to service its current mortgage customers.   
  State and federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities have initiated various inquiries, investigations or
examinations of alleged irregularities in the foreclosure practices of the residential mortgage servicing industry. Mortgage servicing practices have also been the subject of Congressional attention. Authorities have publicly stated that the scope
of the investigations extends beyond foreclosure documentation practices to include mortgage loan modification and loss mitigation practices. See    The Resolution of Several Issues Affecting the Financial Services Industry Could Have a
Negative Impact on Our Reported Results or on Our Relations with Current and Potential Customers.       In
addition, Dodd-Frank established the CFPB that supervises and regulates institutions providing certain financial products and services to consumers. Although the consumer financial services to which this legislation applies exclude insurance
business of the kind in which we engage, the CFPB has authority to regulate consumer services provided by MetLife Bank and non-insurance consumer services provided elsewhere throughout MetLife. See  Business   U.S. Regulation  
Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory Developments   Consumer Protection Laws.  We cannot predict how regulation by the CFPB might affect our business.   
  In December 2010, the Basel Committee published Basel III for bank holding companies, such as MetLife, Inc. Assuming
these requirements are endorsed and adopted by the U.S., they are to be phased in beginning January 1, 2013. It is possible that even more stringent capital and liquidity requirements could be imposed on us under Basel III and Dodd-Frank as
long as MetLife, Inc. remains a bank holding company or if, in the future, it is designated by the FSOC as a non-bank systemically important financial institution. In December 2011, the Federal Reserve Board issued a release proposing the adoption
of Regulation YY. Regulation YY would apply to bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more and non-bank SIFIs. The ability of MetLife Bank and MetLife, Inc. to pay dividends, repurchase common stock or other securities or engage in
other transactions that could affect its capital or need for capital would be affected by any additional capital requirements that might be imposed as a result of the enactment of Dodd-Frank, Regulation YY and the endorsement and adoption by the
U.S. of Basel III and other regulatory initiatives. We are also subject to the evolving Solvency II insurance regulatory directive for each of our insurance operations throughout the European Economic Area. As requirements are finalized by the
regulators, capital requirements might be impacted in a number of jurisdictions. In addition, our legal entity structure throughout Europe may impact our capital requirements, risk management infrastructure and reporting by country. See
 Business   U.S. Regulation,   Business   International Regulation  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Industry Trends.  The Basel Committee
has also published rules requiring a capital surcharge for globally systemically important banks, which are to be phased in beginning in 2016 and will become fully effective in 2019 if they are endorsed and adopted by the U.S. banking regulators.
     The Federal Reserve s capital plan rule requires all bank holding companies with assets of more than $50
billion, including MetLife, Inc., to submit annual capital plans which include projections of the company s capital levels under baseline and stress scenarios over a nine-quarter period. The Federal Reserve will approve or object to a
company s proposed capital actions, such as dividends and stock repurchases, based on the results of those capital plans and the Federal Reserve s assessment of the robustness of the company s capital planning processes. In addition,
in recent years the Federal Reserve has conducted its own assessment of large bank holding companies  internal capital planning processes, capital adequacy and proposed capital distributions. In 2011, the Federal Reserve conducted the CCAR
2011. In October 2011, we announced that the Federal Reserve   
         38   

Table of Contents  

had concluded that our planned capital actions submitted as part of CCAR 2011 should be tested under a revised adverse macroeconomic scenario developed for those firms participating in the CCAR
2012. As a result, the Federal Reserve did not approve MetLife, Inc. s planned dividend increase and other proposed capital actions. In January 2012, we submitted to the Federal Reserve a comprehensive capital plan, as mandated by the capital
plans rule, and additional information required by CCAR 2012. The capital plan projects MetLife s capital levels to the end of 2013 under baseline and stress scenarios, including a stress scenario developed and provided by the Federal Reserve
as part of CCAR 2012. The Federal Reserve has stated that it will consider the results of the capital plan exercise and CCAR 2012 in evaluating proposed capital actions by participating bank holding companies, such as common stock dividend increases
and stock repurchases, and that it will provide its assessment of participating institutions  capital plans in mid-March 2012. There can be no assurance that the Federal Reserve will approve our capital plans.   
  Under Dodd-Frank, all bank holding companies that have elected to be treated as financial holding companies, such as
MetLife, Inc., are required to be  well capitalized  and  well managed  as defined by the Federal Reserve, on a consolidated basis, and not just at their depository institution(s), a higher standard than was applicable to
financial holding companies before Dodd-Frank. If we are unable to meet these standards, we could be subject to activity restrictions, ultimately be required to divest certain operations and be restricted in our ability to pay dividends, repurchase
common stock or other securities, or engage in transactions that could affect our capital or need for capital. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory Developments.    
  Once MetLife Bank has completely exited its depository business, MetLife, Inc. plans to terminate MetLife Bank s
FDIC insurance, putting MetLife, Inc. in a position to be able to deregister as a bank holding company. Upon completion of the foregoing, we will no longer be regulated as a bank holding company or subject to enhanced supervision and prudential
standards as a bank holding company with assets of $50 billion or more. However, if, in the future, MetLife, Inc. is designated by the FSOC as a non-bank systemically important financial institution, it would once again be subject to regulation by
the Federal Reserve and enhanced supervision and prudential standards, such as Regulation YY. In October 2011, the FSOC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking outlining the process it will follow and the criteria it will use to assess whether a
non-bank financial company should be subject to enhanced supervision by the Federal Reserve as a non-bank systemically important financial institution. If MetLife, Inc. meets the quantitative thresholds set forth in the proposal, the FSOC will
continue with a further analysis using qualitative and quantitative factors. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Financial Holding Company Regulation  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations   Industry Trends.       The FDIC has the right to assess FDIC-insured banks for
funds to help pay the obligations of insolvent banks to depositors. Because the amount and timing of an assessment is beyond our control, the liabilities that we have currently established for these potential liabilities may not be adequate. In
addition, Dodd-Frank will result in increased assessments for banks with assets of $10 billion or more, which includes MetLife Bank. In addition, large bank holding companies and non-bank systemically important financial institutions can be assessed
under Dodd-Frank for any uncovered costs arising in connection with the resolution of a systemically important financial company and, under a proposal of the U.S. Treasury published on January 3, 2012, will be assessed to cover the expenses of
the Office of Financial Research, an agency established by Dodd-Frank to improve the quality of financial data available to policymakers and facilitate more robust and sophisticated analysis of the financial system.   
   Regulation of Brokers and Dealers .  Dodd-Frank also authorizes the SEC to establish a standard of
conduct applicable to brokers and dealers when providing personalized investment advice to retail and other customers. This standard of conduct would be to act in the best interest of the customer without regard to the financial or other interest of
the broker or dealer providing the advice. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Securities, Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation  and    Changes in U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations, and
State Insurance Regulations Regarding Suitability of Annuity Product Sales, May Affect Our Operations and Our Profitability.    
         39   

Table of Contents  

    International Regulation .  Our international insurance
operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. See  Business   International Regulation  and    Our International Operations Face
Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability.  A significant portion of our revenues is generated through
operations in foreign jurisdictions, including many countries in early stages of economic and political development. Our international operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and
regulators, such as through nationalization or expropriation of assets, the imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies, changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation, political
instability, dividend limitations, price controls, changes in applicable currency, currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or
converting local currencies we hold to U.S. dollars or other currencies. This may also impact many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries. Changes in the regulations that affect their operations also may affect our business
relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products. Accordingly, these changes and actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions.   
  We expect the scope and extent of regulation outside of the U.S., as well as regulatory oversight, generally to continue
to increase. The authority of our international operations to conduct business is subject to licensing requirements, permits and approvals, and these authorizations are subject to modification and revocation. The regulatory environment in the
countries in which we operate and changes in laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See    Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and
Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability  and  Business   International Regulation.    
  Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and
regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   
   Summary .  From time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations or audits of MetLife,
Inc. s regulated subsidiaries that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. We cannot predict whether or when regulatory actions may be taken that could adversely affect our operations. In addition, the interpretations of
regulations by regulators may change and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements. We are also subject to other regulations and may in the future become subject to
additional regulations. See  Business   U.S. Regulation  and  Business   International Regulation.         Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our
Profitability        Our international operations are exposed to increased political, legal, financial,
operational and other risks. Our international operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators, such as through nationalization or expropriation of assets, the imposition of limits
on foreign ownership of local companies, changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation, political instability, dividend limitations, price controls, changes in applicable currency, currency exchange
controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies, as well as other adverse actions by
foreign governmental authorities and regulators, such as the retroactive application of new requirements to sales made prior to their introduction. Such actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions and could indirectly affect
our business in other jurisdictions as well. Some of our foreign insurance operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where these risks are heightened. See  Business   International Regulation,    
Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth  and  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk.  In   
         40   

Table of Contents  

addition, we rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter labor problems resulting from workers  associations and trade unions in some countries. In several countries,
including China and India, we operate with local business partners with the resulting risk of managing partner relationships to the business objectives. If our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our
investment in building and training the sales force in that country.      We are expanding our international
operations in certain markets where we operate and in selected new markets. This may require considerable management time, as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. Operations in
new foreign markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in existing markets may be affected by local economic and market conditions. Therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not achieve expected operating margins and
our results of operations may be negatively impacted.      In addition, in recent years, the operating environment
in Argentina has been very challenging. In Argentina, we were formerly principally engaged in the pension business. In December 2008, the Argentine government nationalized the Social Security System and moved pension fund assets into the
government-run system, effectively eliminating the private pension companies in Argentina. As a result, we have experienced and will continue to experience reductions in the operation s revenues and cash flows. In February 2011, the Argentine
Superintendent of Insurance ( SSN ) enacted a resolution effectively prohibiting cross-border reinsurance operations. In October 2011, the SSN enacted a resolution which affects our ability to invest and diversify abroad   as of
December 31, 2011, all investments and funds must be located in Argentina. Further governmental or legal actions related to our operations in Argentina could negatively impact our operations in Argentina and result in future losses. See Note 16
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      We also have operations in the Middle East where the
legal and political systems and regulatory frameworks are subject to instability and disruptions. Lack of legal certainty and stability in the region exposes our operations to increased risk of disruption and to adverse or unpredictable actions by
regulators and may make it more difficult for us to enforce our contracts, which may negatively impact our business in this region.      We have market presence in over 50 different countries and increased exposure to risks posed by local and regional economic conditions. Europe has recently experienced a deep recession and countries such
as Italy, Spain, Portugal, Greece and Ireland have been particularly affected by the recession, resulting in increased national debts and depressed economic activity. We have significant operations and investments in these countries which could be
adversely affected by economic developments such as higher taxes, growing inflation, decreasing government spending, rising unemployment and currency instability. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations   Investments   Current Environment.       We face increased exposure to the Japanese
markets as a result of our considerable presence there. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Investments   Current Environment,  and  Management s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Results of Operations   Japan.  The Japanese economy was significantly negatively impacted by the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami, and the resulting serious disruption
to power supplies and release of radiation from a damaged nuclear power plant in northeastern Japan. The impact of these events is uncertain and difficult to predict. Deterioration in Japan s economic environment could have an adverse effect on
our results of operations and financial condition. Any weakening of the yen against the U.S. dollar would adversely affect the estimated fair value of our yen-denominated investments, our investments in Japan subsidiaries and our net income from
operations in Japan. See    Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability.  Changes in market interest rates may also have an adverse effect on our investments and operations in Japan. See
   Changes in Market Interest Rates May Significantly Affect Our Profitability.    
         41   

Table of Contents  

     Various Aspects of Dodd-Frank Could Impact Our Business Operations, Capital
Requirements and Profitability and Limit Our Growth        On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed
Dodd-Frank. Various provisions of Dodd-Frank could affect our business operations, capital requirements and profitability and limit our growth. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory
Developments.       The addition of a new regulatory regime over us, the likelihood of additional
regulations, and the other changes discussed in  Business   U.S. Regulation   Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory Developments  could require changes to our operations. Whether such changes would affect our
competitiveness in comparison to other institutions is uncertain, since the Federal Reserve has stated that at least some of our competitors, in particular insurance holding companies that control thrifts, rather than banks, will be similarly
affected. Competitive effects are possible, however, if MetLife, Inc. were required to pay any new or increased assessments and/or satisfy additional capital requirements but its competitors were not, and to the extent any new prudential supervisory
standards are imposed on MetLife, Inc. but not on its competitors. The impact could be different if MetLife, Inc. is no longer subject to regulation as a bank holding company, although it could still be subject to enhanced supervision as a non-bank
systemically important financial institution. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Financial Holding Company Regulation.  We cannot predict whether other proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, the adoption of Dodd-Frank
or other proposals and the resulting regulations could have on our business, financial condition or results of operations or on our dealings with other financial companies. See also    Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses are
Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth.       Moreover, Dodd-Frank potentially affects such a wide range of the activities and markets in which we engage and participate that it may not be possible to anticipate all of the ways in which it could
affect us. For example, many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. Historical market behavior may be altered by the enactment of
Dodd-Frank. As a result of this enactment and otherwise, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate.   
    The Resolution of Several Issues Affecting the Financial Services Industry Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Reported Results or
on Our Relations with Current and Potential Customers        We will continue to be subject to legal and
regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our business, both in the U.S. and internationally. This could result in a challenge of business sold in the past under previously acceptable market practices at the time. Regulators are increasingly
interested in the approach that product providers use to select third-party distributors and to monitor the appropriateness of sales made by them. In some cases, product providers can be held responsible for the deficiencies of third-party
distributors. In addition, regulators are auditing compliance by life insurers with state unclaimed property laws. See    Litigation and Regulatory Investigations Are Increasingly Common in Our Businesses and May Result in Significant
Financial Losses and/or Harm to Our Reputation.       As a result of publicity relating to widespread
perceptions of industry abuses, there have been numerous regulatory inquiries and proposals for legislative and regulatory reforms.      MetLife Bank s mortgage servicing has been the subject of recent inquiries and requests by state and federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities. MetLife Bank is cooperating with the
authorities  review of this business. On April 13, 2011, the OCC entered into consent decrees with several banks, including MetLife Bank. The consent decrees require an independent review of foreclosure practices and set forth new
residential mortgage servicing standards, including a requirement for a designated point of contact for a borrower during the loss mitigation process. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board entered into consent decrees with the affiliated bank
holding companies of these banks, including MetLife, Inc., to enhance the supervision of the mortgage servicing activities of their banking subsidiaries. In a February 9, 2012 press release, the Federal Reserve Board announced that it had
issued monetary sanctions against five banking organizations for deficiencies in the   
         42   

Table of Contents  

organizations  servicing of residential mortgage loans and processing of foreclosures. The Federal Reserve Board also stated that it plans to announce monetary penalties against six other
institutions under its supervision against whom it had issued enforcement actions in 2011 for deficiencies in servicing of residential mortgage loans and processing foreclosures. The Federal Reserve Board did not identify these six institutions, but
MetLife, Inc. is among the institutions that entered into consent decrees with the Federal Reserve Board in 2011. MetLife Bank has also had a meeting with the Department of Justice regarding mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices. It is
possible that various state or federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities may seek monetary penalties from MetLife Bank relating to foreclosure practices. MetLife Bank is responding to a subpoena issued by the New York State Department of
Financial Services regarding hazard insurance and flood insurance that MetLife Bank obtains to protect the lienholder s interest when the borrower s insurance has lapsed.   
  These consent decrees, as well as the inquiries or investigations referred to above, could adversely affect our
reputation or result in material fines, penalties, equitable remedies or other enforcement actions, and result in significant legal costs in responding to governmental investigations or other litigation. We cannot predict the outcome of any such
actions or reviews. In addition, the changes to the mortgage servicing business required by the consent decrees and the resolution of any other inquiries or investigations may affect the profitability of such business. See  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Industry Trends.       The
MetLife Bank Events may not relieve MetLife from complying with the consent decrees, or protect it from the inquiries and investigations relating to residential mortgage servicing and foreclosure activities, or any fines, penalties, equitable
remedies or enforcement actions that may result, the costs of responding to any such governmental investigations, or other litigation.        We Are Exposed to Significant Financial and Capital Markets Risk Which May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Financial Condition and Liquidity, and May Cause Our Net Investment Income to
Vary from Period to Period        We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk,
including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, market volatility, the performance of the global economy in general, the performance of the specific obligors, including
governments, included in our portfolio and other factors outside our control.      Our exposure to interest rate
risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates will impact the net unrealized gain or loss position of our fixed income investment portfolio. If long-term
interest rates rise dramatically within a six to 12 month time period, certain of our life insurance businesses and fixed annuity business may be exposed to disintermediation risk. Disintermediation risk refers to the risk that our policyholders may
surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate environment, requiring us to liquidate fixed income investments in an unrealized loss position. Due to the long-term nature of the liabilities associated with certain of our life insurance
businesses, guaranteed benefits on variable annuities, and structured settlements, sustained declines in long-term interest rates may subject us to reinvestment risks and increased hedging costs. In other situations, declines in interest rates may
result in increasing the duration of certain life insurance liabilities, creating asset-liability duration mismatches.      Our investment portfolio also contains interest rate sensitive instruments, such as fixed income securities, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates from governmental monetary
policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Changes in interest rates will impact both the net unrealized gain or loss position of our fixed income portfolio and the rates of return we
receive on funds invested. Our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused towards maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that is approximately equal to
the duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. For certain of our liability portfolios, it is not possible to invest assets to the full liability duration, thereby creating some amount of ALM mismatch. For this and other reasons, we also
use derivative instruments to mitigate interest rate risk. However, our estimate of the liability cash flow profile may be inaccurate and we may be forced to liquidate fixed income   
         43   

Table of Contents  

investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover the cash flow profile of the liability. Although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate
environment, we may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our fixed income investments relative to our liabilities. See also    Changes in Market Interest Rates May Significantly Affect Our Profitability.    
  Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price volatility and cash flow variability associated with
changes in credit spreads. A widening of credit spreads will adversely impact both the net unrealized gain or loss position of the fixed-income investment portfolio, will increase losses associated with credit-based non-qualifying derivatives where
we assume credit exposure, and, if issuer credit spreads increase significantly or for an extended period of time, will likely result in higher other-than-temporary impairments ( OTTI ). Credit spread tightening will reduce net investment
income associated with new purchases of fixed maturity securities. In addition, market volatility can make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. As such, valuations may include assumptions or estimates
that may have significant period-to-period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. If there is a resumption of significant volatility in the markets, it could cause changes in credit
spreads and defaults and a lack of pricing transparency which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses,
impairments, and changes in unrealized loss positions.      Our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the
potential for lower earnings associated with certain of our insurance businesses where fee income is earned based upon the estimated fair value of the assets under management. Downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a material adverse
effect on the revenues and investment returns from our savings and investment products and services. Because these products and services generate fees related primarily to the value of assets under management, a decline in the equity markets could
reduce our revenues from the reduction in the value of the investments we manage. The retail variable annuity business in particular is highly sensitive to equity markets, and a sustained weakness in the equity markets could decrease revenues and
earnings in variable annuity products. Furthermore, certain of our variable annuity products offer guaranteed benefits which increase our potential benefit exposure should equity markets decline. We use derivatives and reinsurance to mitigate the
impact of such increased potential benefit exposures. We are also exposed to interest rate and equity risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with our pension and other postretirement benefit
obligations. Sustained declines in long-term interest rates or equity returns likely would have a negative effect on the funded status of these plans. Lastly, we invest a portion of our investments in public and private equity securities, leveraged
buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds and the estimated fair value of such investments may be impacted by downturns or volatility in equity markets.   
  Our primary exposure to real estate risk relates to commercial and agricultural real estate. Our exposure to commercial
and agricultural real estate risk stems from various factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, market conditions including the demand and supply of leasable commercial space, creditworthiness of tenants and partners, capital markets
volatility and the inherent interest rate movement. In addition, our real estate joint venture development program is subject to risks, including, but not limited to, reduced property sales and decreased availability of financing which could
adversely impact the joint venture developments and/or operations. The state of the economy and speed of recovery in fundamental and capital market conditions in the commercial and agricultural real estate sectors will continue to influence the
performance of our investments in these sectors. These factors and others beyond our control could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through net investment income, realized
investment losses and levels of valuation allowances.      Our investment portfolio contains investments in
government bonds issued by certain European Union member States, including Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain, commonly referred to as  Europe s perimeter region,  as well as Cyprus, and in financial institutions that have
significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by those nations. Recently, the European Union member states have experienced above average public debt, inflation and unemployment as the global economic downturn has developed. A number of
member states are significantly impacted by the economies of their more influential neighbors, such as Germany.   
         44   

Table of Contents  

In addition, financial troubles of one nation can lead to troubles in others. In particular, a number of large European banks hold significant amounts of sovereign and/or financial institution
debt of other European nations and could experience difficulties as a result of defaults or declines in the value of such debt. These difficulties or concern that they may occur could disrupt the functioning of the financial markets. Our investment
portfolio also contains investments in revenue bonds issued under the auspices of U.S. states and municipalities and a limited amount of general obligation bonds of U.S. states and municipalities (collectively,  Municipal Bonds ).
Recently, certain U.S. states and municipalities have faced budget deficits and financial difficulties. There can be no assurance that the financial difficulties of such U.S. states and municipalities would not have an adverse impact on our
Municipal Bond portfolio.      A possible result of the disruption in Europe is the withdrawal of one or more
countries from the Euro zone. The extent to which our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net investment income would be affected by any such withdrawal will depend on a number of factors, including the identity of the
withdrawing country and the likelihood that other counties will follow suit. Risks related to any such withdrawal could include overall economic disruption; capital flight, with attendant risks to the integrity of the European Union banking system;
conversion to a national currency, which may be subject to devaluation as discussed further below; inflation risks; increased costs and diminished effectiveness in hedging against declines in the value of the Euro; declines in the value of our
investments; credit losses; and an increase in foreign currency exchange rate risks, among others.      Our
primary foreign currency exchange risks are described under    Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability.  Changes in these factors, which are significant risks to us, can affect our net
investment income in any period, and such changes can be substantial. Foreign currency exchange risk will increase if a country withdraws from the Euro zone. The national currency to which such a country may revert will likely be devalued and
contracts using the Euro will need to be renegotiated. It is possible that any such devaluation could be significant. We cannot predict the extent of such a devaluation, or the effect of it on our contracts, on our investments in bonds governed by
the law of any such country, or on our investments in financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by any such country. Any operations we may have in any such withdrawing country could also be materially
adversely affected by legal or governmental actions related to conversion from the Euro to a national currency.   
  A portion of our investments is made in leveraged buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds, many of
which make private equity investments. The amount and timing of net investment income from such investment funds tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments, including private equity investments. The timing of
distributions from the funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds  schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict. As a result, the amount of
net investment income that we record from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. Significant volatility could adversely impact returns and net investment income on these alternative investment classes. In addition, the
extent to which MetLife, Inc. can continue to invest in such funds is uncertain under Dodd-Frank.      Continuing
challenges include continued weakness in the U.S. real estate market, investor anxiety over the U.S. and European economies, defaults or declines in the value of sovereign or financial institution debt, rating agency downgrades of various structured
products and financial issuers, unresolved issues with structured investment vehicles and monoline financial guarantee insurers, deleveraging of financial institutions and hedge funds, sustained high levels of unemployment and the continuing
recovery in the inter-bank market. Significant volatility in the markets could cause changes in interest rates, declines in equity prices, and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar which, individually or in
tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses, impairments, increased valuation allowances and changes in unrealized gain or loss positions.
       Changes in Market Interest Rates May Significantly Affect Our Profitability     
  Some of our products, principally traditional whole life insurance, fixed annuities and guaranteed interest contracts,
expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our investment margin or  spread,  or   
         45   

Table of Contents  

the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts in our general account and the rate of return we are able to earn on general account investments intended to
support obligations under the contracts. Our spread is a key component of our net income.      As interest rates
decrease or remain at low levels, we may be forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, reducing our investment margin. Moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the fixed income
securities, commercial or agricultural mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, which exacerbates this risk. Lowering interest crediting rates can help
offset decreases in investment margins on some products. However, our ability to lower these rates could be limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. As a
result, our spread could decrease or potentially become negative. Our expectation for future spreads is an important component in the amortization of DAC and value of business acquired ( VOBA ), and significantly lower spreads may cause us
to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. In addition, during periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively more attractive investments to consumers,
resulting in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and increased persistency, or a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in force from year to year, during a period when our new
investments carry lower returns. A decline in market interest rates could also reduce our return on investments that do not support particular policy obligations. Accordingly, declining interest rates may materially affect our results of operations,
financial position and cash flows and significantly reduce our profitability. In January 2012, the Federal Reserve Board announced its plans to keep interest rates low until at least through late 2014, 18 months longer than previously planned.
     Increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect our profitability. In periods of rapidly
increasing interest rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the investments in our general account with higher yielding investments needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep interest sensitive products
competitive. We, therefore, may have to accept a lower spread and, thus, lower profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. In addition, policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals may tend to
increase as policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as interest rates rise. This process may result in cash outflows requiring that we sell investments at a time when the prices of those investments are adversely affected by the
increase in market interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. Unanticipated withdrawals and terminations may cause us to accelerate the amortization of DAC and VOBA, which reduces net income and may also cause us to accelerate
negative VOBA, which increases net income. An increase in market interest rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the estimated fair values of the fixed income securities
that comprise a substantial portion of our investment portfolio. Finally, an increase in interest rates could result in decreased fee income associated with a decline in the value of variable annuity account balances invested in fixed income funds.
       Some of Our Investments Are Relatively Illiquid and Are in Asset Classes That Have Been Experiencing Significant Market
Valuation Fluctuations        We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity, such as privately-placed
fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, policy loans and leveraged leases, equity real estate, including real estate joint ventures and funds, and other limited partnership interests. These asset classes represented 28.3% of the carrying value of
our total cash and investments at December 31, 2011. In recent years, even some of our very high quality investments experienced reduced liquidity during periods of market volatility or disruption. If we require significant amounts of cash on
short notice in excess of normal cash requirements or are required to post or return cash collateral in connection with our investment portfolio, derivatives transactions or securities lending program, we may have difficulty selling these
investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. The reported value of our relatively illiquid types of investments, our investments in the asset classes described above and,
at times, our high quality, generally liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market price for the asset. If we were forced to sell certain of our   
         46   

Table of Contents  

investments in the global market, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them and we could be forced to sell them at significantly
lower prices. Some provisions of Dodd-Frank may lower the prices for certain fund investments by forcing them to be sold over a relatively short period of time.        Our Participation in a Securities Lending Program Subjects Us to Potential Liquidity and Other Risks        We participate in a securities lending program whereby blocks of securities, which are included in fixed maturity securities and short-term investments, are loaned to third parties, primarily brokerage
firms and commercial banks. We obtain collateral, usually cash, in an amount generally equal to 102% of the estimated fair value of the securities loaned, which is obtained at the inception of a loan and maintained at a level greater than or equal
to 100% for the duration of the loan. Returns of loaned securities by the third parties would require us to return the collateral associated with such loaned securities. In addition, in some cases, the maturity of the securities held as invested
collateral (i.e., securities that we have purchased with cash collateral received from the third parties) may exceed the term of the related securities on loan and the estimated fair value may fall below the amount of cash received as collateral and
invested. If we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on short notice and we are forced to sell securities to meet the return obligation, we may have difficulty selling such collateral that is invested in securities in a
timely manner, be forced to sell securities in a volatile or illiquid market for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize under normal market conditions, or both. In addition, under stressful capital market and economic conditions,
liquidity broadly deteriorates, which may further restrict our ability to sell securities. If we decrease the amount of our securities lending activities over time, the amount of net investment income generated by these activities will also likely
decline. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Investments   Securities Lending  and Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
    Our Requirements to Pledge Collateral or Make Payments Related to Declines in Estimated Fair Value of Specified Assets May
Adversely Affect Our Liquidity and Expose Us to Counterparty Credit Risk        Some of our transactions
with financial and other institutions specify the circumstances under which the parties are required to pledge collateral related to any decline in the estimated fair value of the specified assets. In addition, under the terms of some of our
transactions, we may be required to make payments to our counterparties related to any decline in the estimated fair value of the specified assets. The amount of collateral we may be required to pledge and the payments we may be required to make
under these agreements may increase under certain circumstances and will likely increase under Dodd-Frank, which could adversely affect our liquidity. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Collateral Financing Arrangements,   Business   U.S. Regulation   Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory
Developments  and Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.        Gross Unrealized Losses on Fixed
Maturity and Equity Securities and Defaults, Downgrades or Other Events May Result in Future Impairments to the Carrying Value of Such Securities, Resulting in a Reduction in Our Net Income     
  Fixed maturity securities represent a significant portion of our investment portfolio. Fixed maturity and equity
securities classified as available-for-sale are reported at their estimated fair value. Unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities are recognized as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) and are, therefore, excluded from
net income. Our gross unrealized gains and gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities available for sale at December 31, 2011 were $26.1 billion and $5.8 billion, respectively. The portion of the $5.8 billion of gross
unrealized losses for fixed maturity and equity securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below amortized cost or cost by 20% or more for six months or greater was $1.4 billion at December 31, 2011. The accumulated
change in estimated fair value of these available-for-sale securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the decline in estimated fair value is determined to be
other-than-temporary and an impairment charge to earnings is taken.   
         47   

Table of Contents  

   The occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance,
widening risk spreads, or other events that adversely affect the issuers, guarantors or underlying collateral of structured securities could cause the estimated fair value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and our earnings to decline and
the default rate of the fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to increase. A ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular securities, or similar trends that could worsen the credit quality of issuers, such as the
corporate issuers of securities in our investment portfolio, could also have a similar effect. With economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or guarantors could be adversely affected. Similarly, a ratings downgrade affecting a security we
hold could indicate the credit quality of that security has deteriorated and could increase the capital we must hold to support that security to maintain our RBC levels. Levels of writedowns or impairments are impacted by our assessment of intent to
sell, or whether it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell, fixed maturity securities and the intent and ability to hold equity securities which have declined in value until recovery. If we determine to reposition or realign
portions of the portfolio so as not to hold certain equity securities, or intend to sell or determine that it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell, certain fixed maturity securities in an unrealized loss position prior to
recovery, then we will incur an OTTI charge in the period that the decision was made not to hold the equity security to recovery, or to sell, or the determination was made it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the fixed
maturity security. Realized losses or impairments may have a material adverse effect on our net income in a particular quarterly or annual period.        The Determination of the Amount of Allowances and Impairments Taken on Our Investments is Subjective and Could Materially Impact Our Results of Operations or Financial Position     
  The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic
evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. We update our evaluations regularly and
reflect changes in allowances and impairments in net investment losses as such evaluations are revised. Additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future. Furthermore, historical trends may not be indicative of
future impairments or allowances.      For example, the cost of our fixed maturity and equity securities is
adjusted for impairments deemed to be other-than-temporary. The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on our case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in estimated fair value. The review of our fixed
maturity and equity securities for impairment includes an analysis of gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities: (i) securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than
20%; (ii) securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for less than six months; and (iii) securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below cost or
amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater.      Additionally, we consider a wide range of factors
about the security issuer and use our best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent in our evaluation of the security are assumptions
and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to: (i) the length of time and the extent to which the estimated fair value has
been below cost or amortized cost; (ii) the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties; (iii) the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub-sector;
(iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has
exhausted natural resources; (vi) with respect to fixed maturity securities, whether we have the intent to sell or will more likely than not be required to sell a particular security before recovery of the decline in estimated fair value below
cost or amortized cost; (vii) with respect to equity securities, whether we have the ability and intent to hold a particular security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its estimated fair value to an amount at least
equal to its cost; (viii) with respect to structured securities, changes in forecasted cash flows after considering the quality of the underlying collateral; timing of expected prepayment; current and
  
         48   

Table of Contents  

forecasted loss severity; consideration of the payment terms of the underlying assets backing a particular security; and the payment priority within the tranche structure of the security; and
(ix) other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies.   
    Defaults on Our Mortgage Loans and Volatility in Performance May Adversely Affect Our Profitability     
  Our mortgage loans face default risk and are principally collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential
properties. We establish valuation allowances for estimated impairments at the balance sheet date. Such valuation allowances are based on the excess carrying value of the loan over the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the
loan s original effective interest rate, the estimated fair value of the loan s collateral if the loan is in the process of foreclosure or otherwise collateral dependent, or the loan s observable market price. We also establish
valuation allowances for loan losses for pools of loans with similar risk characteristics, such as property types, loan-to-value ratios and debt service coverage ratios when, based on past experience, it is probable that a credit event has occurred
and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. These valuation allowances are based on loan risk characteristics, historical default rates and loss severities, real estate market fundamentals and outlook, as well as other relevant factors.
At December 31, 2011, mortgage loans that were either delinquent or in the process of foreclosure totaled less than 0.4% of our mortgage loan investments. The performance of our mortgage loan investments, however, may fluctuate in the future.
In addition, substantially all of our mortgage loans held-for-investment have balloon payment maturities. An increase in the default rate of our mortgage loan investments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
and financial condition through realized investment losses or increases in our valuation allowances.      Further,
any geographic or sector concentration of our mortgage loans may have adverse effects on our investment portfolios and consequently on our results of operations or financial condition. While we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly
diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated. Moreover, our
ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of related assets may be limited if other market participants are seeking to sell at the same time. In addition, legislative proposals that would allow or require modifications to the terms
of mortgage loans could be enacted. We cannot predict whether these proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business or investments. See  Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Investments   Mortgage Loans.         The Defaults
or Deteriorating Credit of Other Financial Institutions Could Adversely Affect Us        We have exposure to
many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds and other investment funds and
other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. In addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be
realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. We also have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, non-redeemable and
redeemable preferred securities, derivative transactions, joint venture, hedge fund and equity investments. Further, potential action by governments and regulatory bodies in response to the financial crisis affecting the global banking system and
financial markets, such as investment, nationalization, conservatorship, receivership and other intervention, whether under existing legal authority or any new authority that may be created, or lack of action by European Union member governments and
central banks, as well as deterioration in the banks  credit standing, could negatively impact these instruments, securities, transactions and investments or limit the Company s ability to trade with them. There can be no assurance that
any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these investments or other changes would not materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.   
         49   

Table of Contents  

     We Face Unforeseen Liabilities, Asset Impairments or Rating Actions Arising from
Acquisitions, Including ALICO, and Dispositions of Businesses or Difficulties Integrating and Managing Growth of Such Businesses        We have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future. Acquisition and disposition activity exposes us to a number of risks.   
  There could be unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments, including goodwill impairments, that arise in connection with
the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we may acquire in the future.      In addition, there may
be liabilities or asset impairments that we fail, or are unable, to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations on each business that we have acquired or may acquire. Furthermore, even for obligations and liabilities that we do
discover during the due diligence process, neither the valuation adjustment nor the contractual protections we negotiate may be sufficient to fully protect us from losses. For example, in connection with the acquisition of ALICO, we may be exposed
to obligations and liabilities of ALICO that are not adequately covered, in amount, scope or duration, by the indemnification provisions in the stock purchase agreement, dated as of March 7, 2010 (as amended, the  Stock Purchase
Agreement ), entered into in connection with the Acquisition, by and among MetLife, Inc., AIG and AM Holdings, or reflected or reserved for in ALICO s historical financial statements. Although we have rights to indemnification from AM
Holdings under the Stock Purchase Agreement for certain losses, our rights are limited by survival periods for bringing claims and monetary limitations on the amount we may recover, and we cannot be certain that indemnification will be, among other
things, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any loss we may suffer. We are indemnified under the Stock Purchase Agreement for various tax matters, including U.S. federal income taxes attributable to periods during
which the ALICO business was included in AIG s consolidated federal income tax return. We cannot be certain that any such indemnification will ultimately be fully collectible.   
  Furthermore, the use of our own funds as consideration in any acquisition would consume capital resources, which could
affect our capital plan and render those funds unavailable for other corporate purposes. We also may not be able to raise sufficient funds to consummate an acquisition if, for example, we are unable to sell our securities or close related bridge
credit facilities. Moreover, as a result of uncertainty and risks associated with potential acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, rating agencies may take certain actions with respect to the ratings assigned to MetLife, Inc. and/or its
subsidiaries.      Our ability to achieve certain benefits we anticipate from any acquisitions of businesses will
depend in large part upon our ability to successfully integrate such businesses in an efficient and effective manner. We may not be able to integrate such businesses smoothly or successfully, and the process may take longer than expected. The
integration of operations and differences in operational culture may require the dedication of significant management resources, which may distract management s attention from day-to-day business. If we are unable to successfully integrate the
operations of such acquired businesses, we may be unable to realize the benefits we expect to achieve as a result of such acquisitions and our business and results of operations may be less than expected.   
  The success with which we are able to integrate acquired operations will depend on our ability to manage a variety of
issues, including the following:       

Loss of key personnel or higher than expected employee attrition rates could adversely affect the performance of the acquired business and our
ability to integrate it successfully.          

Customers of the acquired business may reduce, delay or defer decisions concerning their use of its products and services as a result of the
acquisition or uncertainty related to the consummation of the acquisition, including, for example, potential unfamiliarity with the MetLife brand in regions where we did not have a market presence prior to the acquisition.
     
         50   

Table of Contents  

If the acquired business relies upon independent distributors to distribute its products, these distributors may not continue to generate the same
volume of business for us after the acquisition. Independent distributors may reexamine the scope of their relationship with the acquired business or us as a result of the acquisition and decide to curtail or eliminate distribution of our products.

Integrating acquired operations with our existing operations may require us to coordinate geographically separated organizations, address possible
differences in corporate culture and management philosophies, merge financial processes and risk and compliance procedures, combine separate information technology platforms and integrate operations that were previously closely tied to the former
parent of the acquired business or other service providers.          

In cases where we or an acquired business operates in certain markets through joint ventures, the acquisition may affect the continued success and
prospects of the joint venture. Our ability to exercise management control or influence over these joint venture operations and our investment in them will depend on the continued cooperation between the joint venture participants and on the terms
of the joint venture agreements, which allocate control among the joint venture participants. We may face financial or other exposure in the event that any of these joint venture partners fail to meet their obligations under the joint venture,
encounter financial difficulty or elect to alter, modify or terminate the relationship.          

We may incur significant costs in connection with any acquisition and the related integration. The costs and liabilities actually incurred in
connection with an acquisition and subsequent integration process may exceed those anticipated.         All of these challenges are present in our integration of ALICO, which we expect to extend over a substantial period.   
  The prospects of our business also may be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to manage the growth of
any acquired business successfully. For example, the life insurance markets in many of the international markets we entered through the Acquisition have experienced significant growth in recent years. Management of growth in these markets to date
has required significant management and operational resources and is likely to continue to do so. Future growth of our combined business will require, among other things, the continued development of adequate underwriting and claim handling
capabilities and skills, sufficient capital base, increased marketing and sales activities, and the hiring and training of new personnel.      There can be no assurance that we will be successful in managing future growth of any acquired business. In particular, there may be difficulties in hiring and training sufficient numbers of customer
service personnel and agents to keep pace with any future growth in the number of customers in our developing or developed markets. In addition, we may experience difficulties in upgrading, developing and expanding information technology systems
quickly enough to accommodate any future growth. If we are unable to manage future growth, our prospects may be materially and adversely affected.        There Can Be No Assurance That the Closing Agreement American Life Entered Into With the IRS Will Achieve Its Intended Effect, or That American Life Will Be Able to Comply with the Related Agreed
Upon Plan        On March 4, 2010, American Life entered into a closing agreement with the Commissioner
of the IRS with respect to a U.S. withholding tax issue arising from payments by foreign branches of a life insurance company incorporated under U.S. law. IRS Revenue Ruling 2004-75, effective January 1, 2005, requires foreign branches of U.S.
life insurance companies in certain circumstances to withhold U.S. income taxes on payments of taxable income made with respect to certain insurance and annuity products paid to customers resident in a foreign country. The closing agreement provides
transitional relief under Section 7805(b) of the Code to American Life, such that American Life s foreign branches will not be required to withhold U.S. income tax on the income portion of payments made pursuant to American Life s
life insurance and annuity contracts ( Covered Payments ) under IRS Revenue Ruling 2004-75 for any tax periods beginning on January 1, 2005 and ending on December 31, 2013 (the  Deferral Period ). In accordance with the
closing agreement, American Life submitted   
         51   

Table of Contents  

a plan to the IRS indicating the steps American Life will take (on a country by country basis) to ensure that no substantial amount of U.S. withholding tax will arise from Covered Payments made
by American Life s foreign branches to foreign customers after the Deferral Period. In addition, the closing agreement requires that such plan be updated in quarterly filings with the IRS. The closing agreement is final and binding upon
American Life and the IRS; provided, however, that the agreement can be reopened in the event of malfeasance, fraud or a misrepresentation of a material fact, and is subject to change of law risk that occurs after the effective date of the closing
agreement (with certain exceptions). In addition, the closing agreement provides that no legislative amendment to Section 861(a)(1)(A) of the Code shall shorten the Deferral Period, regardless of when such amendment is enacted. The plan
American Life delivered to the IRS involves the transfer of businesses from certain of the foreign branches of American Life to one or more existing or newly-formed foreign affiliates of American Life; however, the plan is subject to change pursuant
to the quarterly updates that American Life will provide to the IRS. An estimate of the costs to comply with the plan has been recorded in the financial statements. Also the achievement of the plan presented to the IRS within the required time frame
of December 31, 2013 is contingent upon regulatory approvals and other requirements. Failure to achieve the plan in a timely manner could cause American Life to be required to withhold U.S. income taxes on the taxable portion of payments made
by American Life s foreign branches after December 31, 2013 to customers resident in a foreign country, which could put American Life at a competitive disadvantage with its competitors that sell similar products through foreign entities
and could have a material adverse effect on American Life s future revenues or expenses or both.        The Settlement of
Common Equity Units Issued in Connection with the Acquisition Will Have a Dilutive Impact on MetLife, Inc. s Stockholders        As part of the consideration paid to AM Holdings pursuant to the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement, MetLife, Inc. issued $3.0 billion aggregate stated amount of common equity units, which initially
consist of (x) purchase contracts obligating the holder to purchase a variable number of shares of MetLife, Inc. s common stock on each of three specified future settlement dates (expected to occur on October 10,
2012, September 11, 2013 and October 8, 2014, subject to deferral under certain circumstances) for a fixed amount per purchase contract (an aggregate of $1.0 billion on each settlement date) (the  Stock Purchase Contracts )
and (y) an interest in each of three series of debt securities of MetLife, Inc. AM Holdings subsequently sold all of the common equity units in a public offering. The aggregate amount of MetLife, Inc. s common stock issuable upon
settlement of the Stock Purchase Contracts is expected to be approximately 67.8 million to 84.7 million shares. As a result, more shares of common stock will be outstanding and each existing stockholder will own a smaller percentage of our
common stock then outstanding.        Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Negatively Affect Our
Profitability        We are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates
against the U.S. dollar resulting from our holdings of non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries and net income from foreign operations and issuance of non-U.S. dollar denominated instruments, including guaranteed
interest contracts and funding agreements. These risks relate to potential decreases in estimated fair value and income resulting from a strengthening or weakening in foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar. In general, the weakening of
foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar will adversely affect the estimated fair value of our non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, our investments in foreign subsidiaries, and our net income from foreign operations. Although we use foreign
currency derivatives to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk, we cannot provide assurance that these methods will be effective or that our counterparties will perform their obligations. See  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk.       From time to time, various emerging market countries have experienced severe
economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies. Our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk is exacerbated by our investments in certain emerging markets.   
  Historically, we have matched substantially all of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with
investments denominated in their respective foreign currency, which limits the effect of currency exchange   
         52   

Table of Contents  

rate fluctuation on local operating results; however, fluctuations in such rates affect the translation of these results into our U.S. dollar basis consolidated financial statements. Although we
take certain actions to address this risk, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation could materially adversely affect our reported results due to unhedged positions or the failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the foreign currency
exchange rate fluctuation. See  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.       We
face substantial exposure to risks associated with fluctuations in the yen/ U.S. dollar exchange rate because we now have substantial operations in Japan and a significant portion of our premiums and investment income in Japan are received in yen.
Most claims and expenses associated with our operations in Japan are also paid in yen and we primarily purchase yen-denominated assets to support yen-denominated policy liabilities. These and other yen-denominated financial statement items are,
however, translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. Accordingly, fluctuations in the yen/U.S. dollar exchange rate can have a significant effect on our reported financial position and results of operations. Our Japan operation
does assume some currency exposure by backing a portion of surplus and yen denominated liabilities with U.S. dollar assets. Although this represents risk to our Japan operation, this activity reduces yen exposure at the enterprise level.   
  Due to our significant international operations, during periods when any foreign currency in which we derive our revenues
(such as the Japanese yen) weakens, translating amounts expressed in that currency into U.S. dollars causes fewer U.S. dollars to be reported. When the relevant foreign currency strengthens, translating such currency into U.S. dollars causes more
U.S. dollars to be reported. Any unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The weakening of a foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar will generally adversely affect the
value of investments in U.S. dollar terms and reduce the level of reserves denominated in that currency.        As a Holding
Company, MetLife, Inc. Depends on the Ability of Its Subsidiaries to Transfer Funds to It to Meet Its Obligations and Pay Dividends        MetLife, Inc. is a holding company for its insurance and financial subsidiaries and does not have any significant operations of its own. Dividends from its subsidiaries and permitted payments to it under
its tax sharing arrangements with its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its obligations and to pay preferred and common stock dividends. If the cash MetLife, Inc. receives from its subsidiaries is insufficient for it to fund its
debt service and other holding company obligations, MetLife, Inc. may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets.   
  The payment of dividends and other distributions to MetLife, Inc. by its U.S. insurance subsidiaries is regulated by
insurance laws and regulations. In general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits require insurance regulatory approval. In addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to
MetLife, Inc. if they determine that the payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. The payment of dividends and other distributions by insurance companies is also influenced by business conditions and rating agency
considerations. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Insurance Regulation  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   MetLife,
Inc.   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Dividends from Subsidiaries.  The ability of MetLife Bank to pay dividends is also subject to regulation by the OCC. See also    Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are
Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth.       Any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our foreign subsidiaries and branches to MetLife, Inc. could be subject to taxation or other restrictions on dividends or
repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate. See  Business   International Regulation  and
   Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability.    
         53   

Table of Contents  

     A Downgrade or a Potential Downgrade in Our Financial Strength or Credit Ratings Could
Result in a Loss of Business and Materially Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations        Financial strength ratings, which various Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations ( NRSRO ) publish as indicators of an insurance company s ability to meet contractholder and
policyholder obligations, are important to maintaining public confidence in our products, our ability to market our products and our competitive position.      Downgrades in our financial strength ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including:   

reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products;      

adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and independent sales intermediaries;      

materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders;      

requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive; and      

adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices or at all.      
  In addition to the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, various NRSROs also publish credit ratings
for MetLife, Inc. and several of its subsidiaries. Credit ratings are indicators of a debt issuer s ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors in our overall funding profile and ability to access
certain types of liquidity. Downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including adversely limiting our access to capital markets, potentially increasing
the cost of debt, and requiring us to post collateral. See Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the impact of a one-notch downgrade with respect to derivative transactions with credit rating
downgrade triggers. Also, at December 31, 2011, $188 million of liabilities associated with funding agreements and other capital market products were subject to credit ratings downgrade triggers that permit early termination subject to a notice
period of 90 days.      In view of the difficulties experienced by many financial institutions as a result of the
global recession, including our competitors in the insurance industry, we believe it is possible that the NRSROs will continue to heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, will continue to increase the frequency and scope
of their credit reviews, will continue to request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the NRSRO models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. Rating
agencies use an  outlook statement  of  positive,   stable,   negative  or  developing  to indicate a medium- or long-term trend in credit fundamentals which, if continued, may lead to a ratings
change. A rating may have a  stable  outlook to indicate that the rating is not expected to change; however, a  stable  rating does not preclude a rating agency from changing a rating at any time, without notice. Certain rating
agencies assign rating modifiers such as  CreditWatch  or  Under Review  to indicate their opinion regarding the potential direction of a rating. These ratings modifiers are generally assigned in connection with certain events
such as potential mergers and acquisitions, or material changes in a company s results, in order for the rating agencies to perform their analyses to fully determine the rating implications of the event.   
  We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating
agencies, which could adversely affect our business. As with other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without any notice by any NRSRO.   
    An Inability to Access Our Credit Facilities Could Result in a Reduction in Our Liquidity and Lead to Downgrades in Our Credit and
Financial Strength Ratings        In August 2011, we entered into a $3 billion unsecured five-year credit
agreement by amending and restating our October 2010 unsecured 364-day credit agreement, and reduced the outstanding commitment under our   
         54   

Table of Contents  

October 2010 unsecured three-year credit facility to $1 billion. We also have other facilities which we enter into in the ordinary course of business. See  Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Credit and Committed Facilities  and Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.      We rely on our credit facilities as a potential source of liquidity. The availability
of these facilities could be critical to our credit and financial strength ratings and our ability to meet our obligations as they come due in a market when alternative sources of credit are tight. The credit facilities contain certain
administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants. We must comply with covenants under our credit facilities, including a requirement to maintain a specified minimum consolidated net worth.   
  Our right to borrow funds under these facilities is subject to the fulfillment of certain important conditions, including
our compliance with all covenants, and our ability to borrow under these facilities is also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the lenders that are parties to the facilities to provide funds. Our failure to comply with the covenants
in the credit facilities or fulfill the conditions to borrowings, or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments (whether due to insolvency, illiquidity or other reasons) in the amounts provided for under the terms of the facilities,
would restrict our ability to access these credit facilities when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   
    Our Risk Management Policies and Procedures May Leave Us Exposed to Unidentified or Unanticipated Risk, Which Could Negatively
Affect Our Business        Management of risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to
record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events. We have devoted significant resources to develop and periodically update our risk management policies and procedures to reflect ongoing review of our risks and expect to continue
to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be comprehensive. Many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. As
a result, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which can be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe
occurrence or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. This information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. In addition, more extensive and perhaps different risk management policies
and procedures might have to be implemented under Regulation YY. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Financial Holding Company Regulation  and  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.    
    Reinsurance May Not Be Available, Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us Against Losses     
  As part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various
business segments. See  Business   Reinsurance Activity.  While reinsurance agreements generally bind the reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine the
availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new business. In certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business already reinsured may also increase. Any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and
any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on
acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to those policies we issue.        If the Counterparties to Our Reinsurance or Indemnification Arrangements or to the Derivative Instruments We Use to Hedge Our Business Risks Default or Fail to Perform, We May Be Exposed to Risks We
Had Sought to Mitigate, Which Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations        We use reinsurance, indemnification and derivative instruments to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. In general, reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders,
even when the reinsurer is   
         55   

Table of Contents  

liable to us. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers and indemnitors. We cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or
that indemnitors will honor their obligations now or in the future or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. A reinsurer s or indemnitor s insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of
reinsurance agreements or indemnity agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.      In addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various business risks. We enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit default and currency swaps
with a number of counterparties. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Investments.  If our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative
instruments, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. This is a more pronounced risk to us in view of the stresses suffered by financial institutions over the past few years. Such failure could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations.        Differences Between Actual Claims Experience and Underwriting and
Reserving Assumptions May Adversely Affect Our Financial Results        Our earnings significantly depend
upon the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in setting prices for our products and establishing liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. Our liabilities for future policy benefits and
claims are established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. For life insurance and annuity products, we calculate these liabilities based on many assumptions and estimates, including
estimated premiums to be received over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of the event covered by the insurance policy, the amount of benefits or claims to be paid and the investment returns on the investments we make with the premiums we
receive. We establish liabilities for property and casualty claims and benefits based on assumptions and estimates of damages and liabilities incurred. To the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions we
used in establishing such liabilities, we could be required to increase our liabilities.      Due to the nature of
the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle our liabilities. Such
amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. We evaluate our liabilities periodically based on accounting requirements, which change from time to time, the assumptions used
to establish the liabilities, as well as our actual experience. We charge or credit changes in our liabilities to expenses in the period the liabilities are established or re-estimated. If the liabilities originally established for future benefit
payments prove inadequate, we must increase them. Such increases could affect earnings negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   
    Catastrophes May Adversely Impact Liabilities for Policyholder Claims and Reinsurance Availability     
  Our insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic events. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a
function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis and man-made catastrophes
may produce significant damage or loss of life in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated. Claims resulting from natural or man-made catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal
quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. Also, catastrophic events could harm the financial condition of issuers of obligations we hold in our investment portfolio, resulting in impairments to
these obligations, and the financial condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. Large-scale catastrophes may also reduce the overall level of economic activity in affected countries which
could hurt our business and the value of our investments. Our ability to write new business could also be affected. It is possible that increases in the value, caused by the effects of inflation or other factors, and geographic concentration of
insured property, could increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future.   
         56   

Table of Contents  

   Our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic
mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of deaths. Significant influenza pandemics have occurred three times in the last century; however the likelihood, timing, and severity of a future pandemic cannot be predicted.
A significant pandemic could have a major impact on the global economy or the economies of particular countries or regions, including travel, trade, tourism, the health system, food supply, consumption, overall economic output and, eventually, on
the financial markets. In addition, a pandemic that affected our employees or the employees of our distributors or of other companies with which we do business could disrupt our business operations. The effectiveness of external parties, including
governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material impact on the losses experienced by us. In our group insurance operations, a localized event that affects the workplace of
one or more of our group insurance customers could cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. These events could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could
also materially and adversely affect our financial condition.      Our Auto   Home business has
experienced, and will likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may have a material adverse impact on the business, results of operations and financial condition of the Auto   Home segment. Although Auto   Home makes
every effort to manage our exposure to catastrophic risks through volatility management and reinsurance programs, these efforts do not eliminate all risk. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes,
hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks. Historically, substantially all of our catastrophe-related claims have related to
homeowners coverages. However, catastrophes may also affect other Auto   Home coverages. Due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing and severity of catastrophes. In addition, changing climate conditions, primarily rising
global temperatures, may be increasing, or may in the future increase, the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes such as hurricanes.      Hurricanes and earthquakes are of particular note for our homeowners coverages. Areas of major hurricane exposure include coastal sections of the northeastern U.S. (including lower New York, Connecticut,
Rhode Island and Massachusetts), the Gulf Coast (including Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana and Texas) and Florida. We also have some earthquake exposure, primarily along the New Madrid fault line in the central U.S. and in the Pacific Northwest.
     Most of the jurisdictions in which our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business require
life and property and casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed
insurers. These associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired,
insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. In addition, certain states have government owned or controlled organizations providing life and property and casualty insurance to their citizens. The activities of such organizations could also place
additional stress on the adequacy of guaranty fund assessments. Many of these organizations also have the power to levy assessments similar to those of the guaranty associations described above. Some states permit member insurers to recover
assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Insurance Regulation   Guaranty Associations and Similar Arrangements  and  Business   International Regulation. 
     While in the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied against MetLife, Inc. s insurance
subsidiaries have not been material, it is possible that a large catastrophic event could render such guaranty funds inadequate and we may be called upon to contribute additional amounts, which may have a material impact on our financial condition
or results of operations in a particular period. We have established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that we consider adequate, but additional liabilities may be necessary. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
     Consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we establish liabilities for claims arising from
a catastrophe only after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. We cannot be certain that the   
         57   

Table of Contents  

liabilities we have established will be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. From time to time, states have passed legislation that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to
manage risk, such as legislation restricting an insurer s ability to withdraw from catastrophe-prone areas. While we attempt to limit our exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions imposed by insurance regulatory authorities, a
catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.      Our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our property and casualty and life insurance businesses depends in part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may not be
available at commercially acceptable rates in the future. See    Reinsurance May Not Be Available, Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us Against Losses.         Our Statutory Reserve Financings May Be Subject to Cost Increases and New Financings May Be Subject to Limited Market Capacity     
  To support statutory reserves for several products, including, but not limited to, our level premium term life and
universal life with secondary guarantees and MLIC s closed block, we currently utilize capital markets solutions for financing a portion of our statutory reserve requirements. While we have financing facilities in place for our previously
written business and have remaining capacity in existing facilities to support writings through the end of 2011 or later, certain of these facilities are subject to cost increases upon the occurrence of specified ratings downgrades of MetLife or are
subject to periodic repricing. Any resulting cost increases could negatively impact our financial results.   
  Future capacity for these statutory reserve funding structures in the marketplace is not guaranteed. If capacity becomes
unavailable for a prolonged period of time, hindering our ability to obtain funding for these new structures, our ability to write additional business in a cost effective manner may be impacted.   
    Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and Profitability     
  Our segments are subject to intense competition. We believe that this competition is based on a number of factors,
including service, product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business capabilities and name recognition. We compete in the U.S. and internationally, with a large number of other insurance companies,
as well as non-insurance financial services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers, employers and other group customers and agents and other distributors of insurance and investment products. Some of
these companies offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to other insurance companies, have higher claims paying ability ratings. Some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. National
banks, which may sell annuity products of life insurers in some circumstances, also have pre-existing customer bases for financial services products. Many of our group insurance products are underwritten annually, and, accordingly, there is a risk
that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors rather than renewing coverage with us. The effect of competition may, as a result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability
to sell products in the future.      In addition, the investment management and securities brokerage businesses
have relatively few barriers to entry and continually attract new entrants. See  Business   Competition.       Finally, numerous aspects of our business are subject to regulation. Legislative and other changes affecting the      regulatory environment can affect our competitive position within the life insurance industry and within the      broader financial services industry. See  Business   U.S. Regulation,   Business   International Regulation,     Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are
Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth,     Governmental and Regulatory Actions for the Purpose of Stabilizing and Revitalizing the Financial Markets and Protecting Investors and
Consumers May Not Achieve the Intended Effect or Could Adversely Affect Our Competitive Position  and    Changes in U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations, and State Insurance Regulations Regarding Suitability of
Annuity Product Sales, May Affect Our Operations and Our Profitability.    
         58   

Table of Contents  

         Industry Trends, Including the Consolidation of Distributors of Insurance Products,
Could Adversely Affect the Profitability of Our Businesses        Our segments continue to be influenced by
a variety of trends that affect the insurance industry, including competition with respect to product features, price, distribution capability, customer service and information technology. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Industry Trends.  The insurance industry distributes many of its individual products through other financial institutions such as banks and broker-dealers. An increase in bank and
broker-dealer consolidation activity may negatively impact the industry s sales, and such consolidation could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market insurance
products to our current customer base or to expand our customer base. Consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements
to terms less favorable to us.      The impact on our business and on the life insurance industry generally of the
volatility and instability of the financial markets is difficult to predict, and our business plans, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted or affected in other unexpected ways. The Federal Reserve Board has taken a
number of actions in recent years to spur economic activity by keeping interest rates low and may take further actions to influence interest rates in the future, which may have an impact on the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments, and may
adversely impact the level of product sales. See    Governmental and Regulatory Actions for the Purpose of Stabilizing and Revitalizing the Financial Markets and Protecting Investors and Consumers May Not Achieve the Intended Effect or
Could Adversely Affect Our Competitive Position.  In addition, the life insurance industry is subject to state regulation and, as complex products are introduced, regulators may refine capital requirements and introduce new reserving standards.
Dodd-Frank, Regulation YY, Basel III, Solvency II and other regulatory initiatives may also lead to changes in regulation that may benefit or disadvantage us relative to some of our competitors. See  Business   Competition, 
   Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth  and    Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and
Profitability.         Our Valuation of Fixed Maturity, Equity and Trading and Other Securities and Short-Term
Investments May Include Methodologies, Estimations and Assumptions Which Are Subject to Differing Interpretations and Could Result in Changes to Investment Valuations That May Materially Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations or Financial
Condition        Fixed maturity, equity, and trading and other securities and short-term investments which
are reported at estimated fair value on the consolidated balance sheets represent the majority of our total cash and investments. We have categorized these securities into a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority of the inputs to the
respective valuation technique.      The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in
active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). An asset or liability s classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level significant input to its
valuation. See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the three input levels.      At December 31, 2011, 9.4%, 85.3% and 5.3% of these securities represented Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3, respectively. The Level 1 securities primarily consist of certain U.S. Treasury and agency
securities, foreign government securities, RMBS principally to-be-announced securities, exchange traded common stock, exchange traded registered mutual fund interests and short-term money market securities, including U.S. Treasury bills. The Level 2
assets include fixed maturity and equity securities priced principally through independent pricing services using observable inputs. These fixed maturity securities include most U.S. Treasury and agency securities, as well as the majority of U.S.
and foreign corporate securities, RMBS, foreign government securities, CMBS, state and political subdivision securities, foreign government securities, and ABS. Equity securities classified as Level 2 primarily consist of non-redeemable preferred
securities and certain equity securities where market quotes are available but are not considered actively traded and are priced by independent pricing services. We review the valuation methodologies used by the independent pricing services on an
ongoing basis and ensure   
         59   

Table of Contents  

that any changes to valuation methodologies are justified. Level 3 assets include fixed maturity securities priced principally through independent non-binding broker quotations or market standard
valuation methodologies using inputs that are not market observable or cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 consists of less liquid fixed maturity securities with very limited trading activity or
where less price transparency exists around the inputs to the valuation methodologies including: U.S. and foreign corporate securities   including below investment grade private placements; RMBS; CMBS; ABS and foreign government securities.
Equity securities classified as Level 3 securities consist principally of nonredeemable preferred stock and common stock of companies that are privately held or companies for which there has been very limited trading activity or where less price
transparency exists around the inputs to the valuation.      Prices provided by independent pricing services and
independent non-binding broker quotations can vary widely even for the same security. The determination of estimated fair values by management in the absence of quoted market prices is based on: (i) valuation methodologies; (ii) securities
we deem to be comparable; and (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances. The fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about financial instruments,
including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. Factors considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate, maturity, estimated duration, call provisions,
sinking fund requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer, and quoted market prices of comparable securities. The use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. During
periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities, for example sub-prime mortgage-backed securities,
mortgage-backed securities where the underlying loans are Alt-A and CMBS, if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. In times of financial market disruption, certain asset classes that were in active markets with
significant observable data may become illiquid. In such cases, more securities may fall to Level 3 and thus require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or
require greater estimation, as well as valuation methods which are more sophisticated or require greater estimation thereby resulting in estimated fair values which may be greater or less than the amount at which the investments may be ultimately
sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in estimated fair
value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.        If Our Business Does Not Perform Well, We May Be Required to Recognize an Impairment of Our Goodwill or Other Long-Lived Assets or to Establish a Valuation Allowance Against the Deferred Income Tax
Asset, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations or Financial Condition        Goodwill is the
excess of cost over the estimated fair value of net assets acquired which represents the future economic benefits arising from such net assets acquired that could not be individually identified. As of December 31, 2011, our goodwill was $11.9
billion. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that the implied fair value of the reporting unit is less
than the carrying value of that reporting unit. We perform our annual goodwill impairment testing during the third quarter of each year based upon data as of the close of the second quarter. Goodwill associated with a business acquisition is not
tested for impairment during the year the business is acquired unless there is a significant identified impairment event. Impairment testing is performed using the fair value approach, which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the
 reporting unit  level. A reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level below the operating segment, if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level.   
  The estimated fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business. The performance of our
businesses may be adversely impacted by prolonged market declines. If it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, we must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. Such writedowns
could have an adverse effect on our results of operation or financial   
         60   

Table of Contents  

position. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates   Goodwill  and Note 7 of
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      Long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate,
also require impairment testing to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that we will be unable to recover the carrying amount of the asset group through future operations of that asset group or market conditions that will impact the
estimated fair value of those assets. Such writedowns could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position.      Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they
are realizable. Factors in management s determination include the performance of the business including the ability to generate future taxable income. If based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax
asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position.   
    If Our Business Does Not Perform Well or if Actual Experience Versus Estimates Used in Valuing and Amortizing DAC, Deferred Sales
Inducements ( DSI ) and VOBA Vary Significantly, We May Be Required to Accelerate the Amortization and/or Impair the DAC, DSI and VOBA Which Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations or Financial Condition     
  We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. Costs that vary with and
relate to the production of new and renewal insurance business are deferred as DAC. Bonus amounts credited to certain policyholders, either immediately upon receiving a deposit or as excess interest credits for a period of time, are referred to as
DSI. The recovery of DAC and DSI is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. The amount of future profit or margin is dependent principally on investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality,
morbidity, persistency, interest crediting rates, dividends paid to policyholders, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation. Of these factors, we anticipate
that investment returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of such costs. The aforementioned factors enter into management s estimates of gross profits or margins, which generally are used to amortize such costs.   
  If the estimates of gross profits or margins were overstated, then the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in
the period the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to income. Significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of DAC and DSI related to variable annuity and variable universal life
contracts, resulting in a charge to income. Such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.      VOBA represents the excess of book value over the estimated fair value of acquired insurance, annuity, and investment-type contracts in-force at the acquisition date. The estimated fair value of the
acquired liabilities is based on actuarially determined projections, by each block of business, of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment
returns, nonperformance risk adjustment and other factors. Actual experience on the purchased business may vary from these projections. Revisions to estimates result in changes to the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which the revisions
are made and could result in a charge to income. Also, as VOBA is amortized similarly to DAC and DSI, an acceleration of the amortization of VOBA would occur if the estimates of gross profits or margins were overstated. Accordingly, the amortization
of such costs would be accelerated in the period in which the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to net income. Significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of the VOBA related
to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. Such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. See    Changes in Accounting Standards
Issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or Other Standard-Setting Bodies May Adversely Affect Our Financial Statements,   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
  
         61   

Table of Contents  

of Operations   Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates   Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired  and Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further consideration of DAC and VOBA.        Changes in Accounting Standards Issued by the Financial
Accounting Standards Board or Other Standard-Setting Bodies May Adversely Affect Our Financial Statements        Our financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards
issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Market conditions have prompted accounting standard setters to expose new guidance which further interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements
related to financial instruments, structures or transactions, as well as to issue new standards expanding disclosures. The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our reports filed with the
SEC. We will adopt new guidance regarding accounting for DAC in the first quarter of 2012. Under the new guidance, only incremental direct costs associated with the successful acquisition of new or renewal contracts may be capitalized, and
direct-response advertising costs may be capitalized under certain conditions. We plan to apply this guidance retrospectively to all prior periods presented in our consolidated financial statements for all insurance contracts; this will result in a
reduction of DAC and total equity. See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. An assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and, therefore, the effects
on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. It is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such
changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.        Changes in Our
Discount Rate, Expected Rate of Return and Expected Compensation Increase Assumptions for Our Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans May Result in Increased Expenses and Reduce Our Profitability     
  We determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on our best estimates of future plan
experience. These assumptions are reviewed regularly and include discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and expected increases in compensation levels and expected medical inflation. Changes in these assumptions may result in
increased expenses and reduce our profitability. See Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details on how changes in these assumptions would affect plan costs.   
    Guarantees Within Certain of Our Products that Protect Policyholders Against Significant Downturns in Equity Markets May Decrease
Our Earnings, Increase the Volatility of Our Results if Hedging or Risk Management Strategies Prove Ineffective, Result in Higher Risk Management Costs and Expose Us to Increased Counterparty Risk     
  Certain of our variable annuity products include guaranteed minimum benefits. These include guaranteed minimum death
benefits, guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits, guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits, and guaranteed minimum income benefits. Periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or reduced interest
rates could result in an increase in the valuation of the future policy benefit or policyholder account balance liabilities associated with such products, resulting in a reduction to net income. We use reinsurance in combination with derivative
instruments to mitigate the liability exposure and the volatility of net income associated with these liabilities, and while we believe that these and other actions have mitigated the risks related to these benefits, we remain liable for the
guaranteed benefits in the event that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. In addition, we are subject to the risk that hedging and other management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder
behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed. These, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on net income, financial
condition or liquidity. We are also subject to the risk that the cost of hedging these guaranteed minimum benefits increases as implied volatilities increase and/or interest rates decrease, resulting in a reduction to net income.   
         62   

Table of Contents  

   The valuation of certain of the foregoing liabilities (carried at fair
value) includes an adjustment for nonperformance risk that reflects the credit standing of the issuing entity. This adjustment, which is not hedged, is based in part on publicly available information regarding credit spreads related to MetLife,
Inc. s debt, including credit default swaps. In periods of extreme market volatility, movements in these credit spreads can have a significant impact on net income.        Contractual Features Within Certain of Our Life and Annuity Products May Increase Our Exposure to Foreign Exchange Risk, and Decrease Our Earnings     
  Certain of our life and annuity products are exposed to foreign exchange risk. Payments under these contracts, depending
on the circumstances, may be required to be made in different currencies and may not be the legal tender in the country whose law governs the particular product. Changes in exchange rate movements and the imposition of capital controls may also
directly impact the liability valuation that may not be entirely hedged. If the currency upon which expected future payments are made strengthens, the liability valuation may increase, which may result in a reduction of net income.   
    We May Need to Fund Deficiencies in Our Closed Block; Assets Allocated to the Closed Block Benefit Only the Holders of Closed Block
Policies        MLIC s plan of reorganization, as amended (the  Plan ), required that we
establish and operate an accounting mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that the reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own certain individual insurance policies of MLIC are met. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. We allocated assets to the closed block in an amount that will produce cash flows which, together with anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to support
obligations and liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain expenses and tax, and to provide for the continuation of the policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if
the experience underlying such scales continues, and for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. We cannot provide assurance that the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the
anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block will be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. If they are not sufficient, we must fund the shortfall. Even if they are sufficient, we may choose,
for competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments with our general account funds.      The closed
block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenues from the policies in the closed block will benefit only the holders of the policies in the closed block. In addition, to the extent that these amounts are
greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies included in the closed block may be greater than they would be in the absence of a closed block. Any excess earnings will be
available for distribution over time only to closed block policyholders.        Litigation and Regulatory Investigations Are
Increasingly Common in Our Businesses and May Result in Significant Financial Losses and/or Harm to Our Reputation        We face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. Our pending legal and
regulatory actions include proceedings specific to us and others generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which we operate. In connection with our insurance operations, plaintiffs  lawyers may bring or are bringing class
actions and individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other
duties to customers. Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages. Modern pleading practice in the U.S. permits considerable variation in the assertion
of money damages or other relief. This variability in pleadings, together   
         63   

Table of Contents  

with our actual experience in litigating or resolving through settlement numerous claims over an extended period of time, demonstrates to management that the monetary relief which may be
specified in a lawsuit or claim bears little relevance to its merits or disposition value. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time may normally be difficult to ascertain. Uncertainties can
include how fact finders will evaluate documentary evidence and the credibility and effectiveness of witness testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion
practice, or at trial or on appeal. Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the relevant evidence and applicable law.   
  The Company establishes liabilities for litigation and regulatory loss contingencies when it is probable that a loss has
been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities have been established for a number of matters noted in Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. It is possible that some of the matters could
require us to pay damages or make other expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that could not be estimated at December 31, 2011.      Over the past several years, we have faced numerous claims, including class action lawsuits, alleging improper marketing or sales of individual life insurance policies, annuities, mutual funds or other
products.      In addition, MLIC is and has been a defendant in a large number of lawsuits seeking compensatory
and punitive damages for personal injuries allegedly caused by exposure to asbestos. These lawsuits principally have focused on allegations with respect to certain research, publication and other activities of one or more of MLIC s employees
during the period from the 1920 s through approximately the 1950 s and have alleged that MLIC learned or should have learned of certain health risks posed by asbestos and, among other things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose
those health risks. Additional litigation relating to these matters may be commenced in the future. The ability of MLIC to estimate its ultimate asbestos exposure is subject to considerable uncertainty, and the conditions impacting its liability can
be dynamic and subject to change. The availability of reliable data is limited and it is difficult to predict the numerous variables that can affect liability estimates, including the number of future claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease
mix and severity of disease in pending and future claims, the impact of the number of new claims filed in a particular jurisdiction and variations in the law in the jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible impact of tort reform efforts,
the willingness of courts to allow plaintiffs to pursue claims against MLIC when exposure to asbestos took place after the dangers of asbestos exposure were well known, and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts. The
number of asbestos cases that may be brought, the aggregate amount of any liability that MLIC may incur, and the total amount paid in settlements in any given year are uncertain and may vary significantly from year to year.   
  The ability to make estimates regarding ultimate asbestos exposure declines significantly as the estimates relate to
years further in the future. In our judgment, there is a future point after which losses cease to be probable and reasonably estimable. It is reasonably possible that our total exposure to asbestos claims may be materially greater than the asbestos
liability currently accrued and that future charges to income may be necessary. The potential future charges could be material in the particular quarterly or annual periods in which they are recorded.   
  We are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as information requests, subpoenas and books and record
examinations, from state and federal regulators and other authorities. A substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer significant reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations,
including our ability to attract new customers, retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees. Regulatory inquiries and litigation may cause volatility in the price of stocks of companies in our industry.   
         64   

Table of Contents  

   More than 30 U.S. jurisdictions are auditing MetLife, Inc. and certain of
its affiliates for compliance with unclaimed property laws. Additionally, MLIC and certain of its affiliates have received subpoenas and other regulatory inquiries from certain regulators and other officials relating to claims-payment practices and
compliance with unclaimed property laws. An examination of these practices by the Illinois Department of Insurance has been converted into a multistate targeted market conduct exam. On July 5, 2011, the New York Insurance Department issued a
letter requiring life insurers doing business in New York to use data available on the U.S. Social Security Administration s Death Master File or a similar database to identify instances where death benefits under life insurance policies,
annuities, and retained asset accounts are payable, to locate and pay beneficiaries under such contracts, and to report the results of the use of the data. It is possible that other jurisdictions may pursue similar investigations or inquiries, may
join the multistate market conduct exam, or issue directives similar to the New York Insurance Department s letter. In the third quarter of 2011, we incurred a $117 million after tax charge to increase reserves in connection with our use of the
U.S. Social Security Administration s Death Master File and similar databases to identify potential life insurance claims that have not yet been presented to us. It is possible that the audits, market conduct exam, and related activity may
result in additional payments to beneficiaries, additional escheatment of funds deemed abandoned under state laws, administrative penalties, interest, and changes to our procedures for the identification and escheatment of abandoned property. We
believe that payments for life insurance claims not yet presented and interest thereon will not be materially different from the reserve charge noted above. To the extent we can estimate the reasonably possible amount of potential additional
payments, it has been included in the aggregate estimate of reasonably possible loss provided in Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. It is possible that there will be additional payments or other expenses incurred with
respect to changes in procedures and we are not currently able to estimate these additional possible amounts, but such costs may be substantial.      We cannot give assurance that current claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and other proceedings against us will not have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition or results of operations. It is also possible that related or unrelated claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future, and we could become subject to
further investigations and have lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. The number of countries in which we currently operate has greatly expanded as a result of the Acquisition and, consequently, we may be subject to additional
investigations and lawsuits in such jurisdictions. Increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings in any of the countries where we operate could result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide regulations
that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.        We May Not be Able to Protect
Our Intellectual Property and May be Subject to Infringement Claims        We rely on a combination of
contractual rights with third parties and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. Although we endeavor to protect our rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our
intellectual property. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. This would represent a diversion of resources that may be
significant and our efforts may not prove successful. The inability to secure or protect our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete.   
  We may be subject to claims by third parties for (i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement, (ii) breach
of copyright, trademark or license usage rights, or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. If we were found to have infringed or
misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes,
copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. Alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or implement a costly work around. Any of these scenarios could have a material adverse effect on
our business and results of operations.   
         65   

Table of Contents  

     Legislative and Regulatory Activity in Health Care and Other Employee Benefits Could
Increase the Costs or Administrative Burdens of Providing Benefits to Our Employees or Hinder or Prevent Us From Attracting and Retaining Employees, or Affect our Profitability As a Provider of Life Insurance, Annuities, and Non-Medical Health
Insurance Benefit Products        The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, signed into law on
March 23, 2010, and The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, signed into law on March 30, 2010 (together, the  Health Care Act ), may lead to fundamental changes in the way that employers, including us, provide
health care benefits, other benefits, and other forms of compensation to their employees and former employees. Among other changes, and subject to various effective dates, the Health Care Act generally restricts certain limits on benefits, mandates
coverage for certain kinds of care, extends the required coverage of dependent children through age 26, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions or limitations, requires cost reporting and, in some cases, requires premium rebates to participants
under certain circumstances, limits coverage waiting periods, establishes several penalties on employers who fail to offer sufficient coverage to their full-time employees, and requires employers under certain circumstances to provide employees with
vouchers to purchase their own health care coverage. The Health Care Act also provides for increased taxation of  high cost  coverage, restricts the tax deductibility of certain compensation paid by health insurers, reduces the tax
deductibility of retiree health care costs to the extent of any retiree prescription drug benefit subsidy provided to the employer by the federal government, increases Medicare taxes on certain high earners, and establishes health insurance
 exchanges  for individual purchases of health insurance.      The impact of the Health Care Act on us
as an employer and on the benefit plans we sponsor for employees or retirees and their dependents, whether those benefits remain competitive or effective in meeting their business objectives, and our costs to provide such benefits and our tax
liabilities in connection with benefits or compensation, cannot be predicted. Furthermore, we cannot predict the impact of choices that will be made by various regulators, including the U.S. Treasury, the IRS, the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services, and state regulators, to promulgate regulations or guidance, or to make determinations under or related to the Health Care Act. Either the Health Care Act or any of these regulatory actions could adversely affect our ability to attract,
retain, and motivate talented associates. They could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide employee benefits, and could harm our competitive position if we are subject to fees, penalties, tax provisions or other limitations in
the Health Care Act and our competitors are not.      The Health Care Act also imposes requirements on us as a
provider of non-medical health insurance benefit products, subject to various effective dates. It also imposes requirements on the purchasers of certain of these products and has implications for certain other MLIC products, such as annuities. We
cannot predict the impact of the Act or of regulations, guidance or determinations made by various regulators, on the various products that we offer. Either the Health Care Act or any of these regulatory actions could adversely affect our ability to
offer certain of these products in the same manner as we do today. They could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide certain products, and could harm our competitive position if the Health Care Act has a disparate impact on our
products compared to products offered by our competitors.      Litigation in U.S. federal courts has challenged
whether the Health Care Act, or parts of it, are valid and consistent with the U.S. constitution. Some of the recent court decisions on these issues have held that the Health Care Act is unconstitutional, in whole or in part, and it is expected that
the U.S. Supreme Court will decide these issues in 2012. If the Health Care Act is ruled unconstitutional, the resulting disruption to the system of regulation of health care benefits, other benefits, and other forms of compensation in the U.S., and
uncertainty regarding the future course of that system of regulation, may have impacts, some of them potentially negative, on the way that we provide health care benefits, other benefits and other forms of compensation to employees, and on our
ability to do so in an efficient manner, which could adversely affect our ability to attract, retain, and motivate talented associates and could also result in increased or unpredictable costs. Such a ruling, and the uncertainty it creates, could
also result in negative effects on us as a provider of non-medical health insurance benefit products, affecting our ability to offer certain products in the same manner as we do today or resulting in increased or unpredictable costs to provide
certain products.   
         66   

Table of Contents  

   The Preservation of Access to Care for Medicare Beneficiaries and Pension
Relief Act of 2010 also includes certain provisions for defined benefit pension plan funding relief. These provisions may impact the likelihood and/or timing of corporate plan sponsors terminating their plans and/or engaging in transactions to
partially or fully transfer pension obligations to an insurance company. As part of our Corporate Benefit Funding segment, we offer general account and separate account group annuity products that enable a plan sponsor to transfer these risks, often
in connection with the termination of defined benefit pension plans. Consequently, this legislation could indirectly affect the mix of our business, with fewer closeouts and more non-guaranteed funding products, and adversely impact our results of
operations.        Changes in U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations, and State Insurance Regulations
Regarding Suitability of Annuity Product Sales, May Affect Our Operations and Our Profitability     
  Federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to insurance products that are also  securities, 
including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies. As a result, some of MetLife, Inc. s subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance contracts and policies are subject to extensive
regulation under these securities laws. These subsidiaries issue variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate accounts that are registered with the SEC as investment companies under the Investment Company Act.
Each registered separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is itself a registered investment company under the Investment Company Act. In addition, the variable annuity contracts
and variable life insurance policies issued by the separate accounts are registered with the SEC under the Securities Act. Other subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as broker-dealers under the Exchange Act, and are members of and subject to
regulation by FINRA. Further, some of our subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and are also registered as investment advisers in various states, as applicable.   
  Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets
and to protect investors in the securities markets, as well as protect investment advisory or brokerage clients. These laws and regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or
restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with the securities laws and regulations. A number of changes have recently been suggested to the laws and regulations that govern the conduct of our variable insurance products business and our
distributors that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, Dodd-Frank authorizes the SEC to establish a standard of conduct applicable to brokers and dealers when providing personalized
investment advice to retail and other customers. This standard of conduct would be to act in the best interest of the customer without regard to the financial or other interest of the broker or dealer providing the advice. Further, proposals have
been made that the SEC establish a self-regulatory organization with respect to registered investment advisers, which could increase the level of regulatory oversight over such investment advisers.   
  In addition, state insurance regulators are becoming more active in adopting and enforcing suitability standards with
respect to sales of annuities, both fixed and variable. In particular, the NAIC has adopted a revised Suitability in Annuity Transactions Model Regulation ( SAT ) that will, if enacted by the states, place new responsibilities upon issuing
insurance companies with respect to the suitability of annuity sales, including responsibilities for training agents. Several states have already enacted laws based on the SAT.   
  We also may be subject to similar laws and regulations in the foreign countries in which we offer products or conduct
other activities similar to those described above. See  Business   International Regulation.         Changes in
Tax Laws, Tax Regulations, or Interpretations of Such Laws or Regulations Could Increase Our Corporate Taxes; Changes in Tax Laws Could Make Some of Our Products Less Attractive to Consumers     
  Changes in tax laws, Treasury and other regulations promulgated thereunder, or interpretations of such laws or
regulations could increase our corporate taxes. The Obama Administration has proposed corporate tax changes. Changes in corporate tax rates could affect the value of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. Furthermore, the value of
deferred tax assets could be impacted by future earnings levels.   
         67   

Table of Contents  

   Changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to
consumers. A shift away from life insurance and annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products would reduce our income from sales of these products, as well as the assets upon which we earn investment income. The Obama Administration has proposed
certain changes to individual income tax rates and rules applicable to certain policies.      We cannot predict
whether any tax legislation impacting corporate taxes or insurance products will be enacted, what the specific terms of any such legislation will be or whether, if at all, any legislation would have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations.        Changes to Regulations Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
Could Adversely Affect Our Distribution Model by Restricting Our Ability to Provide Customers With Advice        The prohibited transaction rules of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code generally restrict the provision of investment advice to ERISA plans and participants and Individual Retirement Accounts
( IRAs ) if the investment recommendation results in fees paid to the individual advisor, his or her firm or their affiliates that vary according to the investment recommendation chosen. In October 2011, the DOL issued final regulations
which provide limited relief from these investment advice restrictions. If no additional relief is provided regarding these investment advice restrictions, the ability of our affiliated broker-dealers and their registered representatives to provide
investment advice to ERISA plans and participants, and with respect to IRAs, would likely be significantly restricted. Also, the fee and revenue arrangements of certain advisory programs may be required to be revenue neutral, resulting in potential
lost revenues for these broker-dealers and their affiliates.      Other proposed investment advice regulatory
initiatives under ERISA also may negatively impact the current business model of our broker-dealers. In particular, the DOL issued a proposed regulation in October 2010 that would, if adopted as proposed, significantly broaden the circumstances
under which a person or entity providing investment advice with respect to ERISA plans or IRAs would be deemed a fiduciary under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code. If adopted, the proposed regulations may make it easier for the DOL in enforcement
actions, and for plaintiffs  attorneys in ERISA litigation, to attempt to extend fiduciary status to advisors who would not be deemed fiduciaries under current regulations. In September 2011, the DOL announced it will re-propose these fiduciary
definition regulations, and a new proposal is expected in 2012.      In addition, the DOL has issued a number of
regulations recently that increase the level of disclosure that must be provided to plan sponsors and participants. The participant disclosure regulations were issued in final form in October 2010 and become effective in 2012, and the regulations
which require service providers to disclose fee and other information to plan sponsors take effect in 2012. These ERISA disclosure requirements will likely increase the regulatory and compliance burden upon us, resulting in increased costs.
       We May Be Unable to Attract and Retain Sales Representatives for Our Products     
  We must attract and retain productive sales representatives to sell our insurance, annuities and investment products.
Strong competition exists among insurers for sales representatives with demonstrated ability. In addition, there is competition for representatives with other types of financial services firms, such as independent broker-dealers.   
  We compete with other insurers for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial position, support
services and compensation and product features. We continue to undertake several initiatives to grow our career agency force while continuing to enhance the efficiency and production of our existing sales force. We cannot provide assurance that
these initiatives will succeed in attracting and retaining new agents. Sales of individual insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are
unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents. See  Business   Competition.    
         68   

Table of Contents  

     MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors May Control the Outcome of Stockholder Votes
on Many Matters Due to the Voting Provisions of the MetLife Policyholder Trust        Under the Plan, we
established the MetLife Policyholder Trust (the  Trust ) to hold the shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock allocated to eligible policyholders not receiving cash or policy credits under the plan. As of February 21, 2012, the Trust held
211,500,239 shares, or 19.9%, of the outstanding shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock. Because of the number of shares held in the Trust and the voting provisions of the Trust, the Trust may affect the outcome of matters brought to a stockholder
vote. Except on votes regarding certain fundamental corporate actions described below, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held in the Trust in accordance with the recommendations given by MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors
to its stockholders or, if the Board gives no such recommendations, as directed by the Board. As a result of the voting provisions of the Trust, the Board of Directors may be able to control votes on matters submitted to a vote of stockholders,
excluding those fundamental corporate actions, so long as the Trust holds a substantial number of shares of common stock.      If the vote relates to fundamental corporate actions specified in the Trust, the trustee will solicit instructions from the Trust beneficiaries and vote all shares held in the Trust in proportion to the
instructions it receives. These actions include:       

an election or removal of directors in which a stockholder has properly nominated one or more candidates in opposition to a nominee or nominees of
MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors or a vote on a stockholder s proposal to oppose a Board nominee for director, remove a director for cause or fill a vacancy caused by the removal of a director by stockholders, subject to certain
conditions;          

a merger or consolidation, a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the assets, or a recapitalization or dissolution, of MetLife,
Inc., in each case requiring a vote of stockholders under applicable Delaware law;          

any transaction that would result in an exchange or conversion of shares of common stock held by the Trust for cash, securities or other property;
and          

any proposal requiring MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors to amend or redeem the rights under MetLife, Inc. s stockholder rights plan,
other than a proposal with respect to which we have received advice of nationally-recognized legal counsel to the effect that the proposal is not a proper subject for stockholder action under Delaware law. MetLife, Inc. does not currently have a
stockholder rights plan.         If a vote concerns any of these fundamental corporate actions, the
trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by the Trust in proportion to the instructions it received, which will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually given by Trust beneficiaries.   
  The MetLife Policyholder Trust Agreement provides that we may terminate the Trust once the percentage of outstanding
shares held in the Trust falls to 25%. We must terminate the Trust 90 days after we provide the trustee with notice that the percentage of outstanding shares held in the Trust is 10% or less. In connection with any termination of the Trust, all of
the shares of common stock then held in the Trust will need to be distributed to the respective Trust beneficiaries, unless we offer to purchase all or a portion of such Trust shares. In connection with such a distribution, we may incur costs
related to an increase in the number of shareholders, which may include increased mailing and proxy solicitation expenses.   
    State Laws, Federal Laws, Our Certificate of Incorporation and Our By-Laws May Delay, Deter or Prevent Takeovers and Business
Combinations that Stockholders Might Consider in Their Best Interests        State laws and our certificate
of incorporation and by-laws may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. For instance, they may prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of
MetLife, Inc. s common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of MetLife, Inc. s common stock if they
are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.   
         69   

Table of Contents  

   Any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would face
various regulatory obstacles which may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders of MetLife, Inc. might consider in their best interests. First, the insurance laws and regulations of the various states in which MetLife,
Inc. s U.S. insurance subsidiaries are organized may delay or impede a business combination involving us. State insurance laws prohibit an entity from acquiring control of an insurance company without the prior approval of the domestic
insurance regulator. Under most states  statutes, an entity is presumed to have control of an insurance company if it owns, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of that insurance company or its parent company. We are also
subject to banking regulations, and may in the future become subject to additional regulations. Dodd-Frank contains provisions that could restrict or impede consolidation, mergers and acquisitions by systemically significant firms and/or large bank
holding companies. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Financial Holding Company Regulation   Change of Control and Restrictions on Mergers and Acquisitions.  In addition, the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, would
require approval by the contract owners of our variable contracts in order to effectuate a change of control of any affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying our variable contracts. Finally, FINRA approval would be necessary for a
change of control of any FINRA registered broker-dealer that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of MetLife, Inc.      In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may affect the ability of an  interested stockholder  to engage in certain business combinations, including mergers,
consolidations or acquisitions of additional shares, for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder becomes an  interested stockholder.  An  interested stockholder  is defined to include persons owning,
directly or indirectly, 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation.      MetLife, Inc. s
certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. These provisions may adversely affect prevailing market prices for
MetLife, Inc. s common stock and include: a prohibition on the calling of special meetings by stockholders; advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates to the Board of Directors and stockholder proposals to be considered at
stockholder meetings; and supermajority voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation and by-laws.        The Continued Threat of Terrorism and Ongoing Military Actions May Adversely Affect the Level of Claim Losses We Incur and the Value of Our Investment Portfolio     
  The continued threat of terrorism, both within the U.S. and abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened
security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in
our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. We cannot predict whether, and the extent to which, companies in which we
maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of financial, commercial or economic disruptions, or how any such disruptions might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or principal on their securities or, to the extent not
covered by the terrorism insurance maintained by our commercial and agricultural mortgagees, mortgage loans. The continued threat of terrorism also could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us
to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. Terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the U.S. or abroad. In addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could
result in higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated. See    Difficult Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy Generally May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations and These
Conditions May Not Improve in the Near Future.         The Occurrence of Events Unanticipated in Our Disaster Recovery
Systems and Management Continuity Planning, as well as a Failure in Cyber- or Other Information Security Systems, Could Result in a Loss or Disclosure of Confidential Information, Damage Our Reputation and Could Impair Our Ability to Conduct
Business Effectively        In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an epidemic, an
industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus, a terrorist attack, a cyberattack or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery   
         70   

Table of Contents  

systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial position, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based
data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. In addition, in the event that a significant number of our managers were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business
could be severely compromised. These interruptions also may interfere with our suppliers  ability to provide goods and services and our employees  ability to perform their job responsibilities.   
  We depend heavily upon computer systems to provide reliable service. Despite our implementation of a variety of security
measures, our computer systems could be subject to physical and electronic break-ins, cyberattacks and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering, including threats that may come from external factors, such as governments, organized crime,
hackers and third parties to whom we outsource certain functions, or may originate internally from within the Company.      If one or more of these events occurs, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and
networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, as well as our customers  or other third parties , operations, which could result in damage to our reputation, financial losses, litigation, increased costs, regulatory
penalties and/or customer dissatisfaction or loss. Although we take steps to prevent and detect such attacks, it is possible that we may not become aware of a cyber incident for some time after it occurs, which could increase our exposure to these
consequences.        Our Associates May Take Excessive Risks Which Could Negatively Affect Our Financial Condition and
Business        As an insurance enterprise, we are in the business of being paid to accept certain risks.
The associates who conduct our business, including executive officers and other members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, product managers, sales agents, and other associates, do so in part by making decisions and choices that
involve exposing us to risk. These include decisions such as setting underwriting guidelines and standards, product design and pricing, determining what assets to purchase for investment and when to sell them, which business opportunities to pursue,
and other decisions. Although we endeavor, in the design and implementation of our compensation programs and practices, to avoid giving our associates incentives to take excessive risks, associates may take such risks regardless of the structure of
our compensation programs and practices. Similarly, although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor associates  business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks, there can be no assurance that these controls and
procedures are or may be effective. If our associates take excessive risks, the impact of those risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or business operations.   
     Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments       
  MetLife has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act.
        Item 2.    Properties       
  In 2006, we signed a lease for 410,000 rentable square feet on 12 floors in an office building in Manhattan, New York,
which is occupied by U.S. Business, Corporate   Other, and International. The term of that lease commenced during 2008 and continues for 21 years. In August 2009, we subleased 32,000 rentable square feet of that space to a subtenant, which
has met our standards of review with respect to creditworthiness and we currently have approximately 33,000 rentable square feet of the 410,000 rentable square feet available for sublease. We moved certain operations from our Long Island City, New
York facility, to the Manhattan space in late 2008, but continue to maintain an on-going presence in Long Island City. Our lease in Long Island City covers 686,000 rentable square feet, which is occupied by Corporate   Other, under a
long-term lease arrangement that commenced during 2003 and continues for 20 years. In connection with the move of certain   
         71   

Table of Contents  

operations to Manhattan, in late 2008, we subleased 330,000 rentable square feet to four subtenants, each of which has met our standards of review with respect to creditworthiness. To date, with
our occupancy and the four subtenants we have secured, we are fully subscribed at the Long Island City location.      In connection with the 2005 sale of the 200 Park Avenue property, we have retained rights to existing signage and are leasing space for associates in the property for 20 years with optional renewal
periods through 2205, which is occupied by U.S. Business, Corporate   Other, and International.      We
continue to own 15 other buildings in the U.S. that we use in the operation of our business. These buildings contain approximately four million rentable square feet and are located in the following states: Connecticut, Florida, Illinois, Missouri,
New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island. Our computer center in Rensselaer, New York is not owned in fee but rather is occupied pursuant to a long-term ground lease. We lease space in 709 other locations throughout the
U.S., and these leased facilities consist of 8.9 million rentable square feet. Approximately 39% of these leases are occupied as sales offices for the U.S. Business operations. The balance of space is utilized for corporate functions supporting
business activities. We also own 75 properties outside the U.S. for associates in International, including 10 significant properties, as well as smaller facilities and condominium units. We lease approximately 1,200 sites in various locations
outside the U.S. We believe that these properties are suitable and adequate for our current and anticipated business operations.      We arrange for property and casualty coverage on our properties, taking into consideration our risk exposures and the cost and availability of commercial coverages, including deductible loss levels. In
connection with the renewal of those coverages, we have arranged $700 million of property insurance, including coverage for terrorism, on our real estate portfolio through May 1, 2012, its renewal date.   
     Item 3.    Legal Proceedings       
  See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
     Item 4.    Mine Safety Disclosures       
  Not applicable.         Item 5.    Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities       
    Issuer Common Equity        MetLife, Inc. s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, began trading on the NYSE under the symbol  MET  on April 5, 2000.   
  The following table presents high and low closing prices for the common stock on the NYSE for the periods indicated:

72   

Table of Contents  

   At February 21, 2012, there were 91,277 stockholders of record of
common stock.      The table below presents dividend declaration, record and payment dates, as well as per share
and aggregate dividend amounts, for the common stock:       

(1)  
    Includes dividends paid on convertible preferred stock.      
  Future common stock dividend decisions will be determined by MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors after taking into
consideration factors such as our current earnings, expected medium-term and long-term earnings, financial condition, regulatory capital position, and applicable governmental regulations and policies. The payment of dividends and other distributions
by MetLife, Inc. to its security holders is subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Financial Holding Company Regulation,  and Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
     See Item 12 for information about our equity compensation plans.   
    Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     
  Purchases of common stock made by or on behalf of MetLife, Inc. or its affiliates during the quarter ended
December 31, 2011 are set forth below:       

(1)  
    During the periods October 1 through October 31, 2011, November 1 through November 30, 2011 and December 1 through
December 31, 2011, separate account and other affiliates of MetLife, Inc. purchased 1,922 shares, 7,300 shares and 21,393 shares, respectively, of common stock on the open market in nondiscretionary transactions to rebalance
index funds. Except as disclosed above, there were no shares of common stock which were repurchased by MetLife, Inc.          

(2)  
    At December 31, 2011, MetLife, Inc. had $1.3 billion remaining under its common stock repurchase program authorizations. In April 2008,
MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors authorized an additional $1.0 billion common stock repurchase program, which will begin after the completion of the January 2008 $1.0 billion common stock repurchase program, of which
$261 million remained outstanding at December 31, 2011. Under these authorizations, MetLife, Inc. may purchase its common stock from the MetLife Policyholder Trust, in the open market (including pursuant to the terms of a pre-set trading
plan meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) and in privately negotiated transactions. Any future common stock repurchases will be dependent upon several factors, including the Company s capital
position, its liquidity, its financial strength and credit ratings, general market conditions and the market price of MetLife, Inc. s common stock compared to management s assessment of the stock s underlying value and applicable
regulatory approvals, as well as other legal and accounting factors. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Financial Holding Company Regulation.       
         73   

Table of Contents  

      Item 6.    Selected Financial Data   
      The following selected financial data has been derived from the Company s audited consolidated
financial statements. The statement of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, and the balance sheet data at December 31, 2011 and 2010 have been derived from the Company s audited financial statements
included elsewhere herein. The statement of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the balance sheet data at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 have been derived from the Company s audited financial
statements not included herein. The selected financial data set forth below should be read in conjunction with  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and the consolidated financial
statements and related notes included elsewhere herein.       
 
         74   

Table of Contents  

75   

Table of Contents  

(1)  
    On November 1, 2010, MetLife, Inc. acquired ALICO. The results of the Acquisition are reflected in the 2011 and 2010 selected financial data
from the Acquisition Date. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.          

(2)  
    At December 31, 2011, general account assets, long-term debt and other liabilities include amounts relating to variable interest entities of
$7.3 billion, $3.1 billion and $60 million, respectively. At December 31, 2010, general account assets, long-term debt and other liabilities include amounts relating to variable interest entities of $11.1 billion,
$6.9 billion and $93 million, respectively.          

(3)  
    Policyholder liabilities and other policy-related balances include future policy benefits, policyholder account balances, other policy-related
balances, policyholder dividends payable and the policyholder dividend obligation.          

(4)  
    Return on MetLife, Inc. s common equity is defined as net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc. s common shareholders divided by
MetLife, Inc. s average common stockholders  equity.          

(5)  
    For the year ended December 31, 2009, shares related to the assumed exercise or issuance of stock-based awards have been excluded from the
calculation of diluted earnings per common share as these assumed shares are anti-dilutive.      
         76   

Table of Contents  

      Item 7.    Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations          For purposes of this discussion,
 MetLife,  the  Company,   we,   our  and  us  refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999, its subsidiaries and affiliates. Following this summary is a discussion addressing
the consolidated results of operations and financial condition of the Company for the periods indicated. This discussion should be read in conjunction with  Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,   Risk Factors, 
 Selected Financial Data  and the Company s consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein.      This Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations may contain or incorporate by reference information that includes or is based upon forward-looking
statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements give expectations or forecasts of future events. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to
historical or current facts. They use words such as  anticipate,   estimate,   expect,   project,   intend,   plan,   believe  and other words and terms of similar meaning in
connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or
products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, trends in operations and financial results. Any or all forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. Actual results could differ materially from those
expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. See  Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.       The following discussion includes references to our performance measures, operating earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders, that are not based on accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ). Operating earnings is the measure of segment profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. Consistent with GAAP accounting guidance for segment reporting,
operating earnings is our measure of segment performance. Operating earnings is also a measure by which senior management s and many other employees  performance is evaluated for the purposes of determining their compensation under
applicable compensation plans.      Operating earnings is defined as operating revenues less operating expenses,
both net of income tax. Operating earnings available to common shareholders is defined as operating earnings less preferred stock dividends.      Operating revenues and operating expenses exclude results of discontinued operations and other businesses that have been or will be sold or exited by MetLife, Inc. ( Divested Businesses ).
Operating revenues also excludes net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses).      The
following additional adjustments are made to GAAP revenues, in the line items indicated, in calculating operating revenues:       

Universal life and investment-type product policy fees excludes the amortization of unearned revenue related to net investment gains (losses) and
net derivative gains (losses) and certain variable annuity guaranteed minimum income benefits ( GMIB ) fees ( GMIB Fees           

Net investment income: (i) includes amounts for scheduled periodic settlement payments and amortization of premium on derivatives that are
hedges of investments but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, (ii) includes income from discontinued real estate operations, (iii) excludes post-tax operating earnings adjustments relating to insurance joint ventures accounted
for under the equity method, (iv) excludes certain amounts related to contractholder-directed unit-linked investments, and (v) excludes certain amounts related to securitization entities that are variable interest entities
( VIEs ) consolidated under GAAP; and          

Other revenues are adjusted for settlements of foreign currency earnings hedges.      
         77   

Table of Contents  

   The following additional adjustments are made to GAAP expenses, in the line
items indicated, in calculating operating expenses:       

Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends excludes: (i) changes in the policyholder dividend obligation related to net
investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), (ii) inflation-indexed benefit adjustments associated with contracts backed by inflation-indexed investments and amounts associated with periodic crediting rate adjustments based on
the total return of a contractually referenced pool of assets, (iii) benefits and hedging costs related to GMIBs ( GMIB Costs ), and (iv) market value adjustments associated with surrenders or terminations of contracts
( Market Value Adjustments           

Interest credited to policyholder account balances includes adjustments for scheduled periodic settlement payments and amortization of premium on
derivatives that are hedges of policyholder account balances ( PABs ) but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and excludes amounts related to net investment income earned on contractholder-directed unit-linked investments;

Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs ( DAC ) and value of business acquired ( VOBA ) excludes amounts related to:
(i) net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), (ii) GMIB Fees and GMIB Costs, and (iii) Market Value Adjustments;      

Amortization of negative VOBA excludes amounts related to Market Value Adjustments;      

Interest expense on debt excludes certain amounts related to securitization entities that are VIEs consolidated under GAAP; and

Other expenses excludes costs related to: (i) noncontrolling interests, (ii) implementation of new insurance regulatory requirements, and
(iii) business combinations.         We believe the presentation of operating earnings and
operating earnings available to common shareholders as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our performance by highlighting the results of operations and the underlying profitability drivers of our business. Operating
revenues, operating expenses, operating earnings, and operating earnings available to common shareholders, should not be viewed as substitutes for the following financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP: GAAP revenues, GAAP expenses,
GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, and GAAP net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc. s common shareholders, respectively. Reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are
included in    Results of Operations.       In 2011, management modified its definition of
operating earnings to exclude the impacts of Divested Businesses, which includes certain operations of MetLife Bank, National Association ( MetLife Bank ) and our insurance operations in the Caribbean region, Panama and Costa Rica (the
 Caribbean Business ), as these results are not relevant to understanding the Company s ongoing operating results. Consequently, prior years  results for Corporate   Other and total consolidated operating earnings have
been decreased by $111 million, net of $66 million of income tax, and $211 million, net of $139 million of income tax, for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
  In addition, in 2011, management modified its definition of operating earnings and operating earnings available to common
shareholders to exclude impacts related to certain variable annuity guarantees and Market Value Adjustments to better conform to the way it manages and assesses its business. Accordingly, such results are no longer reported in operating earnings and
operating earnings available to common shareholders. Consequently, prior years  results for Retirement Products and total consolidated operating earnings have been increased by $64 million, net of $34 million of income tax, and $90 million, net
of $49 million of income tax, for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
         78   

Table of Contents  

   In this discussion, we sometimes refer to sales activity for various
products. These sales statistics do not correspond to revenues under GAAP, but are used as relevant measures of business activity. Additionally, the impact of changes in our foreign currency exchange rates is calculated using the average foreign
currency exchange rates for the current year and is applied to each of the comparable years.       Executive Summary
      MetLife is a leading global provider of insurance, annuities and employee benefit programs throughout the
United States, Japan, Latin America, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East. Through its subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife offers life insurance, annuities, auto and homeowners insurance, mortgage and deposit products and other financial
services to individuals, as well as group insurance and retirement   savings products and services to corporations and other institutions. MetLife is organized into six segments: Insurance Products, Retirement Products, Corporate Benefit
Funding and Auto   Home (collectively,  U.S. Business ), and Japan and Other International Regions (collectively,  International ). In addition, the Company reports certain of its results of operations in
Corporate   Other, which includes MetLife Bank and other business activities.      On November 21,
2011, MetLife, Inc. announced that it will be reorganizing its business into three broad geographic regions: The Americas; Europe, the Middle East and Africa ( EMEA  and Asia, and creating a global employee benefits business to better
reflect its global reach. While the Company has initiated certain changes in response to this announcement, including the appointment of certain executive leadership into some of the roles designed for the reorganized structure, management continued
to evaluate the performance of the operating segments under the existing segment structure as of December 31, 2011. In addition, management continues to evaluate the Company s segment performance and allocated resources and may adjust such
measurements in the future to better reflect segment profitability.      In December 2011, MetLife Bank and
MetLife, Inc. entered into a definitive agreement to sell most of the depository business of MetLife Bank. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2012, subject to certain regulatory approvals and other customary closing
conditions. Additionally, in January 2012, MetLife, Inc. announced it is exiting the business of originating forward residential mortgages (together with MetLife Bank s pending actions to exit the depository business, including the
aforementioned December 2011 agreement, the  MetLife Bank Events ). Once MetLife Bank has completely exited its depository business, MetLife, Inc. plans to terminate MetLife Bank s Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
( FDIC ) insurance, putting MetLife, Inc. in a position to be able to deregister as a bank holding company. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Financial Holding Company Regulation.  The Company continues to originate
reverse mortgages and will continue to service its current mortgage customers. As a result of the MetLife Bank Events, for the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company recorded charges totaling $212 million, net of income tax, which included
intent-to-sell other-than-temporary impairment ( OTTI ) investment charges, charges related to the de-designation of certain cash flow hedges, a goodwill impairment charge and other employee-related charges. In addition, the Company
expects to incur additional charges of $90 million to $110 million, net of income tax, during 2012, related to exiting the forward residential mortgage origination business, with no expected impact on the Company s operating earnings. See
Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      On November 1, 2010 (the
 Acquisition Date ), MetLife, Inc. completed the acquisition of American Life Insurance Company ( American Life ) from AM Holdings LLC (formerly known as ALICO Holdings LLC) ( AM Holdings ), a subsidiary of American
International Group, Inc. ( AIG ), and Delaware American Life Insurance Company ( DelAm ) from AIG (American Life, together with DelAm, collectively,  ALICO ) (the  Acquisition ). ALICO s fiscal year-end
is November 30. Accordingly, the Company s consolidated financial statements reflect the assets and liabilities of ALICO as of November 30, 2011 and 2010, and the operating results of ALICO for the year ended November 30, 2011
and the one month ended November 30, 2010. The assets, liabilities and operating results relating to the Acquisition are included in the Japan and Other International Regions segments. Prior year results have been adjusted to conform to the
current year presentation of segments. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         79   

Table of Contents  

   We continue to experience an increase in market share and sales in several
of our businesses; however, the general economic conditions, including the high levels of unemployment, negatively impacted the demand for certain of our products. Portfolio growth in response to the higher sales levels drove improved investment
results despite lower yields experienced in connection with the continued decline in interest rates in 2011. The declining interest rate environment, however, also generated significant derivative gains in 2011. Current year results were negatively
impacted by severe weather, including the earthquake and tsunami in Japan in the first quarter, record numbers of tornadoes in the second quarter and Hurricane Irene in the third quarter.   

(1)  
    See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses for the components of such adjustments.      
    Year Ended December 31, 2011 compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2010     
  Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.   
  During the year ended December 31, 2011, income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, increased $4.2
billion to $7.0 billion from $2.8 billion in 2010. The change was predominantly due to a $5.1 billion favorable change in net derivative gains (losses), before income tax, and a $1.5 billion favorable change in operating earnings available to common
shareholders, which includes the impact of the Acquisition.      The favorable change in net derivative gains
(losses) of $3.3 billion was primarily driven by favorable changes in freestanding derivatives, partially offset by unfavorable changes in embedded derivatives. The favorable change in freestanding derivatives was primarily attributable to the
impact of falling long-term and mid-term interest rates and equity market movements and volatility.      The
Acquisition drove the majority of the $1.5 billion increase in operating earnings available to common shareholders. In addition, improved investment performance was the result of portfolio growth in response to increased sales across many of our
businesses, which more than offset the negative impact of the declining interest rate environment on yields. Current year results were negatively impacted by severe weather, as well as, in the third quarter, a charge to increase reserves in
connection with the Company s use of the U.S. Social Security Administration s Death Master File and similar databases to identify potential life insurance claims that have not been presented to the Company ( Death Master File )
and expenses incurred related to a liquidation plan filed by the New York State Department of Financial Services (the  Department of Financial Services ) for Executive Life Insurance Company of New York ( ELNY ).   
    Year Ended December 31, 2010 compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2009     
  Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.   
  During the year ended December 31, 2010, MetLife s income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax
increased $5.1 billion to a gain of $2.8 billion from a loss of $2.3 billion in 2009, of which $2 million in losses is from the inclusion of ALICO results for one month in 2010 and the impact of financing costs for the
  
         80   

Table of Contents  

Acquisition. The change was predominantly due to a $4.6 billion favorable change in net derivative gains (losses), before income tax, and a $2.5 billion favorable change in net
investment gains (losses), before income tax. Offsetting these favorable variances were unfavorable changes in adjustments related to continuing operations of $1.4 billion, before income tax, and $2.2 billion of income tax, resulting in a
total favorable variance of $3.5 billion. In addition, operating earnings available to common shareholders increased $1.6 billion to $3.8 billion in 2010 from $2.2 billion in 2009.   
  The favorable change in net derivative gains (losses) of $3.0 billion was primarily driven by net gains on
freestanding derivatives in 2010 compared to net losses in 2009, partially offset by an unfavorable change in embedded derivatives from gains in 2009 to losses in 2010. The favorable change in freestanding derivatives was primarily attributable to
market factors, including falling long-term and mid-term interest rates, a stronger recovery in equity markets in 2009 than 2010, equity volatility, which decreased more in 2009 as compared to 2010, a strengthening U.S. dollar and widening
corporate credit spreads in the financial services sector. The favorable change in net investment gains (losses) of $1.6 billion was primarily driven by a decrease in impairments and a decrease in the provision for credit losses on mortgage
loans. These favorable changes in net derivative and net investment gains (losses) were partially offset by an unfavorable change of $518 million in related adjustments.   
  The improvement in the financial markets, which began in the second quarter of 2009 and continued into 2010, was a key
driver of the $1.6 billion increase in operating earnings available to common shareholders. Such market improvement was most evident in higher net investment income and policy fees, as well as a decrease in variable annuity guarantee benefit
costs. These increases were partially offset by an increase in amortization of DAC, VOBA and deferred sales inducements ( DSI ) as a result of an increase in average separate account balances and higher 2010 gross margins in the closed
block driven by increased investment yields and the impact of dividend scale reductions. The 2010 period also includes one month of ALICO results, contributing $114 million to the increase in operating earnings. The favorable impact of a
reduction in discretionary spending associated with our enterprise-wide cost reduction and revenue enhancement initiative was more than offset by an increase in other expenses related to our Other International Regions segment. This increase
primarily stemmed from the impact of a benefit recorded in the prior year related to the pesification in Argentina, as well as current year business growth in the segment.        Consolidated Company Outlook        In 2012, we expect a
solid improvement in the operating earnings of the Company over 2011, driven primarily by the following:       

Premiums, fees and other revenues growth in 2012 is expected to be driven by:      

Rational pricing strategy in the group insurance marketplace.      

Higher fees earned on separate accounts primarily due to favorable net flows of variable annuities, which are expected to remain strong in 2012,
thereby increasing the value of those separate accounts; and          

Increases in our International businesses, notably accident and health, from continuing organic growth throughout our various geographic regions.

Focus on disciplined underwriting. We see no significant changes to the underlying trends that drive underwriting results and continue to anticipate
solid results in 2012; however, unanticipated catastrophes, similar to those that occurred during 2011, could result in a high volume of weather-related claims.      

Focus on expense management. We continue to focus on expense control throughout the Company, and managing the costs associated with the integration
of ALICO.          

Continued disciplined approach to investing and asset/liability management, including significant hedging to protect against low interest rates.
     
         81   

Table of Contents  

   As a result of new financial accounting guidance for DAC which we intend to
adopt in the first quarter of 2012, we estimate that, on the date of adoption, DAC will be reduced by approximately $3.1 billion to $3.6 billion and total equity will be reduced by approximately $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion, net of income tax.
Additionally, we estimate that there will be a negative impact on our 2012 operating earnings primarily in Japan, with no impact on our on-going cash flows. The Company plans to apply this accounting change retrospectively to all prior periods
presented in its consolidated financial statements for all insurance contracts.      We expect only modest
investment losses in 2012, but more difficult to predict is the impact of potential changes in fair value of freestanding and embedded derivatives as even relatively small movements in market variables, including interest rates, equity levels and
volatility, can have a large impact on the fair value of derivatives and net derivative gains (losses). Additionally, changes in fair value of embedded derivatives within certain insurance liabilities may have a material impact on net derivative
gains (losses) related to the inclusion of an adjustment for nonperformance risk.       Industry Trends    
  We continue to be impacted by the unstable global financial and economic environment that has been affecting the
industry.       Financial and Economic Environment.   Our business and results of operations are
materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally. Stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in global capital markets, particular markets, or financial asset classes can have an adverse effect on us, in
part because we have a large investment portfolio and our insurance liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. Global market factors, including interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange
rates, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, deflation and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our
business. Disruptions in one market or asset class can also spread to other markets or asset classes. Upheavals in the financial markets can also affect our business through their effects on general levels of economic activity, employment and
customer behavior. While our diversified business mix and geographically diverse business operations partially mitigate these risks, correlation across regions, countries and global market factors may reduce the benefits of diversification.
     Beginning in 2010 and continuing throughout 2011, concerns increased about capital markets and the solvency
of certain European Union member states, including Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain ( Europe s perimeter region ), and of financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to their sovereign debt. See
   Investments   Current Environment  for information regarding credit ratings downgrades and support programs for Europe s perimeter region. These ratings downgrades and implementation of European Union and private sector
support programs have increased concerns that other European Union member states could experience similar financial troubles, that some countries could default on their obligation or have to restructure their outstanding debt, that financial
institutions with significant holdings of sovereign or private debt issued by borrowers in peripheral European countries could experience financial stress, or that one or more countries may exit the Euro zone, any of which could have significant
adverse effects on the European and global economies and on financial markets, generally. See  Risk Factors   We Are Exposed to Significant Financial and Capital Markets Risk Which May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Financial
Condition and Liquidity, and May Cause Our Net Investment Income to Vary from Period to Period.    
  Although the downgrade by Standard   Poor s Ratings Services ( S P ) of U.S. Treasury
securities initially had an adverse effect on financial markets, the extent of the longer-term impact cannot be predicted. Fitch Ratings ( Fitch ) warned that it may in the future downgrade the U.S. credit rating unless action is taken to
reduce the national debt of the U.S. See  Risk Factors   Concerns Over U.S. Fiscal Policy and the Trajectory of the National Debt of the U.S., as well as Rating Agency Downgrades of U.S. Treasury Securities, Could Have an
  
         82   

Table of Contents  

Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  See also    Investments   Current Environment  for further information about European
region support programs announced in July 2011 and October 2011, ratings actions and our exposure to obligations of European governments and private obligors.      All of these factors have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on the financial results of companies in the financial services industry, including MetLife. Such global economic conditions, as
well as the global financial markets, continue to impact our net investment income, our net investment and net derivative gains (losses), and the demand for and the cost and profitability of certain of our products, including variable annuities and
guarantee benefits. See    Results of Operations  and    Liquidity and Capital Resources.       As a financial holding company with significant operations in the U.S., we are affected by the monetary policy of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve
Board ) and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the  FRB of NY  and, collectively with the Federal Reserve Board, the  Federal Reserve ). The Federal Reserve Board has taken a number of actions in recent years to spur
economic activity by keeping interest rates low and may take further actions to influence interest rates in the future, which may have an impact on the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments, and may adversely impact the level of product sales.
In January 2012, the Federal Reserve Board announced its plans to keep interest rates low until at least through late 2014, 18 months longer than previously planned in order to revive the slow recovery from stressed economic conditions. See
 Risk Factors   Governmental and Regulatory Actions for the Purpose of Stabilizing and Revitalizing the Financial Markets and Protecting Investors and Consumers May Not Achieve the Intended Effect or Could Adversely Affect Our Competitive
Position  and    Investments   Current Environment.        Competitive
Pressures.   The life insurance industry remains highly competitive. The product development and product life-cycles have shortened in many product segments, leading to more intense competition with respect to product features. Larger
companies have the ability to invest in brand equity, product development, technology and risk management, which are among the fundamentals for sustained profitable growth in the life insurance industry. In addition, several of the industry s
products can be quite homogeneous and subject to intense price competition. Sufficient scale, financial strength and financial flexibility are becoming prerequisites for sustainable growth in the life insurance industry. Larger market participants
tend to have the capacity to invest in additional distribution capability and the information technology needed to offer the superior customer service demanded by an increasingly sophisticated industry client base. We believe that the turbulence in
financial markets that began in the second half of 2007, its impact on the capital position of many competitors, and subsequent actions by regulators and rating agencies have highlighted financial strength as a significant differentiator from the
perspective of customers and certain distributors. In addition, the financial market turbulence and the economic recession have led many companies in our industry to re-examine the pricing and features of the products they offer and may lead to
consolidation in the life insurance industry.       Regulatory Changes.   The U.S. life
insurance industry is regulated primarily at the state level, with some products and services also subject to Federal regulation. As life insurers introduce new and often more complex products, regulators refine capital requirements and introduce
new reserving standards for the life insurance industry. Regulations recently adopted or currently under review can potentially impact the statutory reserve and capital requirements of the industry. In addition, regulators have undertaken market and
sales practices reviews of several markets or products, including equity-indexed annuities, variable annuities and group products. The regulation of the financial services industry in the U.S. and internationally has received renewed scrutiny
as a result of the disruptions in the financial markets. Significant regulatory reforms have been recently adopted and additional reforms proposed, and these or other reforms could be implemented. See  Business   U.S. Regulation, 
 Business   International Regulation,   Risk Factors   Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our
Profitability and Limit Our Growth  and  Risk Factors   Changes in U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations, and State Insurance Regulations Regarding Suitability of Annuity Product Sales, May Affect Our
Operations and Our Profitability.    
         83   

Table of Contents  

   The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
( Dodd-Frank ), which was signed by President Obama in July 2010, effected the most far-reaching overhaul of financial regulation in the U.S. in decades. The full impact of Dodd-Frank on us will depend on the numerous rulemaking
initiatives required or permitted by Dodd-Frank which are scheduled to be completed over the next few years. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory Developments  and  Risk Factors
  Various Aspects of Dodd-Frank Could Impact Our Business Operations, Capital Requirements and Profitability and Limit Our Growth.       As a federally chartered national banking association, MetLife Bank is subject to a wide variety of banking laws, regulations and guidelines, as is MetLife, Inc., as a bank holding company. See
 Business   U.S. Regulation   Banking Regulation  and  Business   U.S. Regulation   Financial Holding Company Regulation.  In December 2011, MetLife Bank and MetLife, Inc. entered into a definitive agreement
to sell most of the depository business of MetLife Bank. In January 2012, MetLife, Inc. announced it is exiting the business of originating forward residential mortgages. Once MetLife Bank has completely exited its depository business, MetLife, Inc.
plans to terminate MetLife Bank s FDIC insurance, putting MetLife, Inc. in a position to be able to deregister as a bank holding company. Upon completion of the foregoing, MetLife, Inc. will no longer be regulated as a bank holding company or
subject to enhanced supervision and prudential standards as a bank holding company with assets of $50 billion or more. However, if, in the future, MetLife, Inc. is designated by the Financial Stability Oversight Council ( FSOC ) as a
non-bank systemically important financial institution (as discussed below), it could once again be subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve and enhanced supervision and prudential standards, such as Regulation YY (as discussed below). In October
2011, the FSOC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking, outlining the process it will follow and the criteria it will use to assess whether a non-bank financial company should be subject to enhanced supervision by the Federal Reserve as a non-bank
systemically important financial institution. If MetLife, Inc. meets the quantitative thresholds set forth in the proposal, the FSOC will continue with a further analysis using qualitative and quantitative factors.   
  In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published its final rules for increased capital and
liquidity requirements (commonly referred to as  Basel III ) for bank holding companies, such as MetLife, Inc. Assuming these requirements are endorsed and adopted by the U.S. banking regulators, they are to be phased in beginning
January 1, 2013. It is possible that even more stringent capital and liquidity requirements could be imposed under Basel III, Dodd-Frank and Regulation YY, as long as MetLife, Inc. remains a bank holding company or if, in the future, it is
designated by the FSOC as a non-bank systemically important financial institution. The Basel Committee has also published rules requiring a capital surcharge for globally systemically important banks, which are to be phased in beginning January 2016
if they are endorsed and adopted by the U.S. banking regulators. As currently proposed, this surcharge would not apply to global non-bank systemically important financial institutions. However, international regulatory bodies are currently engaged
in evaluating standards to identify such companies and to develop a regulatory regime that would apply to them, which may include enhanced capital requirements or other measures. The ability of MetLife Bank and MetLife, Inc. to pay dividends,
repurchase common stock or other securities or engage in other transactions that could affect its capital or need for capital could be reduced by any additional capital requirements that might be imposed as a result of the enactment of Dodd-Frank,
Regulation YY and/or the endorsement and adoption by the U.S. of Basel III and other regulatory initiatives. See  Risk Factors   Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in
Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth.       In April 2011,
the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC proposed a rule regarding the implementation of the Dodd-Frank requirement that (i) each non-bank financial company designated by the FSOC for enhanced supervision by the Federal Reserve Board (a
 non-bank systemically important financial institution  or  non-bank SIFI ) and each bank holding company with assets of $50 billion or more report periodically to the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the FSOC the plan of such
company for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure, and (ii) that each such company report on the nature and extent of credit exposures of such company to significant bank holding companies and
significant non-bank financial companies   
         84   

Table of Contents  

and the nature and extent of credit exposures of significant bank holding companies and significant non-bank financial companies to such covered company. In November 2011, the Federal Reserve
Board and the FDIC adopted a final rule implementing the resolution plan requirement, effective November 30, 2011, but deferred finalizing the credit exposure reporting requirement until a later date. If MetLife, Inc. remains a bank holding
company on July 1, 2012, or if, in the future, it is designated by the FSOC as a non-bank SIFI, it would be required to submit a resolution plan. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory
Developments   Orderly Liquidation Authority.       In December 2011, the Federal Reserve Board issued a
release proposing the adoption of enhanced prudential standards required by Dodd-Frank ( Regulation YY ). Regulation YY would apply to bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more and non-bank SIFIs. Regulation YY would impose
(i) enhanced risk-based capital ( RBC ) requirements, (ii) leverage limits, (iii) liquidity requirements, (iv) single counterparty exposure limits, (v) governance requirements for risk management, (vi) stress
test requirements, and (vii) special debt-to-equity limits for certain companies, and would establish a procedure for early remediation based on the failure to comply with these requirements. As proposed, Regulation YY would apply the same
enhanced regulatory standards to non-bank systemically important financial institutions as would apply to systemically important banks; the Federal Reserve Board has solicited comments on the appropriateness of this treatment. For further
information regarding enhanced prudential standards and Regulation YY, see  Business   U.S. Regulation   Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory Developments   Enhanced Prudential Standards.  Dodd-Frank also includes
provisions that may impact the investment and investment activities of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including the federal regulation of such activities. Such provisions include the regulation of the over-the-counter ( OTC )
derivatives markets and the prohibitions on covered banking entities engaging in proprietary trading or sponsoring or investing in hedge funds or private equity funds. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative
and Regulatory Developments   Regulation of Over-the-Counter Derivatives  and  Business   U.S. Regulation   Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory Developments   Volcker Rule.    
   Mortgage and Foreclosure-Related Exposures   In 2008, MetLife Bank acquired certain assets to enter the
forward and reverse residential mortgage origination and servicing business, including rights to service residential mortgage loans. At various times since then, including most recently in the third quarter of 2010, MetLife Bank has acquired
additional residential mortgage loan servicing rights. On January 10, 2012, MetLife, Inc. announced that it is exiting the business of originating forward residential mortgages, but will continue to service its current mortgage customers. As an
originator and servicer of mortgage loans, which are usually sold to an investor shortly after origination, MetLife Bank has obligations to repurchase loans or compensate for losses upon demand by the investor due to defects in servicing of the
loans or a determination that material representations made in connection with the sale of the loans (relating, for example, to the underwriting and origination of the loans) are incorrect. MetLife Bank is indemnified by the sellers of the acquired
assets, for various periods depending on the transaction and the nature of the claim, for origination and servicing deficiencies that occurred prior to MetLife Bank s acquisition, including indemnification for any repurchase claims made from
investors who purchased mortgage loans from the sellers. Substantially all mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs ) that were acquired by MetLife Bank relate to loans sold to Federal National Mortgage Association ( FNMA ) or Federal
Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ( FHLMC ). MetLife Bank has originated and sold mortgages primarily to FNMA and FHLMC and sold Federal Housing Administration and loans guaranteed by the United States Department of Veterans  Affairs in
mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by Government National Mortgage Association ( GNMA ) (collectively, the  Agency Investors ) and, to a limited extent, a small number of private investors. Currently 99.5% of MetLife
Bank s $82.0 billion servicing portfolio consists of Agency Investors  product. Other than repurchase obligations which are subject to indemnification by sellers of acquired assets as described above, MetLife Bank s exposure to
repurchase obligations and losses related to origination deficiencies is limited to the approximately $58.6 billion of loans originated by MetLife Bank (all of which have been originated since August 2008). Reserves for representation and
warranty repurchases and indemnifications were $69 million and $56 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. MetLife Bank is exposed to losses due to servicing deficiencies on loans originated and sold, as
  
         85   

Table of Contents  

well as servicing acquired, to the extent such servicing deficiencies occurred after the date of acquisition. Management is satisfied that adequate provision has been made in the Company s
consolidated financial statements for all probable and reasonably estimable repurchase obligations and losses.   
  Currently, MetLife Bank services approximately 1% of the aggregate principal amount of the mortgage loans serviced in the
U.S. State and federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities have initiated various inquiries, investigations or examinations of alleged irregularities in the foreclosure practices of the residential mortgage servicing industry. Mortgage
servicing practices have also been the subject of Congressional attention. Authorities have publicly stated that the scope of the investigations extends beyond foreclosure documentation practices to include mortgage loan modification and loss
mitigation practices.      MetLife Bank s mortgage servicing has been the subject of recent inquiries and
requests by state and federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities. MetLife Bank is cooperating with the authorities  review of this business. On April 13, 2011, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ) entered
into consent decrees with several banks, including MetLife Bank. The consent decrees require an independent review of foreclosure practices and set forth new residential mortgage servicing standards, including a requirement for a designated point of
contact for a borrower during the loss mitigation process. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board entered into consent decrees with the affiliated bank holding companies of these banks, including MetLife, Inc., to enhance the supervision of the
mortgage servicing activities of their banking subsidiaries. In a February 9, 2012 press release, the Federal Reserve Board announced that it had issued monetary sanctions against five banking organizations for deficiencies in the
organizations  servicing of residential mortgage loans and processing of foreclosures. The Federal Reserve Board also stated that it plans to announce monetary penalties against six other institutions under its supervision against whom it had
issued enforcement actions in 2011 for deficiencies in servicing of residential mortgage loans and processing foreclosures. The Federal Reserve Board did not identify these six institutions, but MetLife, Inc. is among the institutions that entered
into consent decrees with the Federal Reserve Board in 2011. MetLife Bank has also had a meeting with the Department of Justice regarding mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices. It is possible that various state or federal regulatory and law
enforcement authorities may seek monetary penalties from MetLife Bank relating to foreclosure practices. MetLife Bank is responding to a subpoena issued by the Department of Financial Services regarding hazard insurance and flood insurance that
MetLife Bank obtains to protect the lienholder s interest when the borrower s insurance has lapsed.   
  These consent decrees, as well as the inquiries or investigations referred to above, could adversely affect
MetLife s reputation or result in material fines, penalties, equitable remedies or other enforcement actions, and result in significant legal costs in responding to governmental investigations or other litigation. In addition, the changes to
the mortgage servicing business required by the consent decrees and the resolution of any other inquiries or investigations may affect the profitability of such business.   
  The MetLife Bank Events may not relieve MetLife from complying with the consent decrees, or protect it from the inquiries
and investigations relating to residential mortgage servicing and foreclosure activities, or any fines, penalties, equitable remedies or enforcement actions that may result, the costs of responding to any such governmental investigations, or other
litigation.       Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates    
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to adopt accounting policies and make
estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. For a discussion of the Company s significant accounting policies see Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The most
critical estimates include those used in determining:       

(i)  
    estimated fair values of investments in the absence of quoted market values;      

(ii)  
    investment impairments;          

(iii)  
    estimated fair values of freestanding derivatives and the recognition and estimated fair value of embedded derivatives requiring bifurcation;
     
         86   

Table of Contents  

(iv)  
    amortization of DAC and the establishment and amortization of VOBA;      

(v)  
    measurement of goodwill and related impairment, if any;      

(vi)  
    liabilities for future policyholder benefits and the accounting for reinsurance;      

(vii)  
    measurement of income taxes and the valuation of deferred tax assets;      

(viii)  
    measurement of employee benefit plan liabilities; and      

(ix)  
    liabilities for litigation and regulatory matters.      
  In addition, the application of acquisition accounting requires the use of estimation techniques in determining the
estimated fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed   the most significant of which relate to aforementioned critical accounting estimates. In applying the Company s accounting policies, we make subjective and complex
judgments that frequently require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Many of these policies, estimates and related judgments are common in the insurance and financial services industries; others are specific to the Company s
business and operations. Actual results could differ from these estimates.        Estimated Fair Value of Investments
       In determining the estimated fair value of fixed maturity securities, equity securities, trading and
other securities, short-term investments, cash equivalents, mortgage loans and MSRs, various methodologies, assumptions and inputs are utilized.      When quoted prices in active markets are not available, the determination of estimated fair value is based on market standard valuation methodologies, giving priority to observable inputs. The market
standard valuation methodologies utilized include: discounted cash flow methodologies, matrix pricing or other similar techniques. The inputs to these market standard valuation methodologies include, but are not limited to: interest rates, credit
standing of the issuer or counterparty, industry sector of the issuer, coupon rate, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, maturity, estimated duration and management s assumptions regarding liquidity and estimated future cash flows.
Accordingly, the estimated fair values are based on available market information and management s judgments about financial instruments.      The significant inputs to the market standard valuation methodologies for certain types of securities with reasonable levels of price transparency are inputs that are observable in the market or can be
derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. Such observable inputs include benchmarking prices for similar assets in active, liquid markets, quoted prices in markets that are not active and observable yields and spreads in
the market.      When observable inputs are not available, the market standard valuation methodologies for
determining the estimated fair value of certain types of securities that trade infrequently, and therefore have little or no price transparency, rely on inputs that are significant to the estimated fair value that are not observable in the market or
cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. These unobservable inputs can be based in large part on management judgment or estimation, and cannot be supported by reference to market activity. Even though
unobservable, these inputs are based on assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances and consistent with what other market participants would use when pricing such securities.   
  The estimated fair value of residential mortgage loans held-for-sale and securitized reverse residential mortgage loans
is determined based on observable pricing for securities backed by similar types of loans, adjusted to convert the securities prices to loan prices, or from independent broker quotations, which is intended to approximate the amounts that would be
received from third parties. Certain other mortgage loans that were previously designated as held-for-investment, but now are designated as held-for-sale, are recorded at the lower   
         87   

Table of Contents  

of amortized cost or estimated fair value, or for collateral dependent loans, estimated fair value of the collateral less expected disposition costs determined on an individual loan basis. For
these loans, estimated fair value is determined using independent broker quotations, or values provided by independent valuation specialists, or when the loan is in foreclosure or otherwise collateral dependent, the estimated fair value of the
underlying collateral is estimated using internal models.      The estimated fair value of MSRs is principally
determined through the use of internal discounted cash flow models which utilize various assumptions. Valuation inputs and assumptions include generally observable items such as type and age of loan, loan interest rates, current market interest
rates, and certain unobservable inputs, including assumptions regarding estimates of discount rates, loan prepayments and servicing costs, all of which are sensitive to changing markets conditions. The use of different valuation assumptions and
inputs, as well as assumptions relating to the collection of expected cash flows, may have a material effect on the estimated fair values of MSRs.      Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. The Company s ability to sell securities, or the
price ultimately realized for these securities, depends upon the demand and liquidity in the market and increases the use of judgment in determining the estimated fair value of certain securities.   
  See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the estimated fair
value of investments.        Investment Impairments     
  One of the significant estimates related to available-for-sale securities is the evaluation of investments for
impairments. The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on our case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in estimated fair value. The Company s review of its fixed maturity and equity securities for
impairment includes an analysis of gross unrealized losses by three categories of severity and/or age of gross unrealized loss. An extended and severe unrealized loss position on a fixed maturity security may not have any impact on the ability of
the issuer to service all scheduled interest and principal payments and the Company s evaluation of recoverability of all contractual cash flows or the ability to recover an amount at least equal to its amortized cost based on the present value
of the expected future cash flows to be collected. In contrast, for certain equity securities, greater weight and consideration are given by the Company to a decline in estimated fair value and the likelihood such estimated fair value decline will
recover.      Additionally, we consider a wide range of factors about the security issuer and use our best
judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent in our evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the
issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations used by the Company in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to:       

(i)  
    the length of time and the extent to which the estimated fair value has been below cost or amortized cost;      

(ii)  
    the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties;      

(iii)  
    the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub-sector;      

(iv)  
    the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations;      

(v)  
    the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has
exhausted natural resources;      
         88   

Table of Contents  

(vi)  
    with respect to fixed maturity securities, whether the Company has the intent to sell or will more likely than not be required to sell a particular
security before recovery of the decline in estimated fair value below amortized cost;          

(vii)  
    with respect to equity securities, whether the Company s ability and intent to hold a particular security for a period of time sufficient to
allow for the recovery of its estimated fair value to an amount at least equal to its cost;          

(viii)  
    with respect to structured securities, changes in forecasted cash flows after considering the quality of underlying collateral; expected prepayment
speeds; current and forecasted loss severity; consideration of the payment terms of the underlying assets backing a particular security; and the payment priority within the tranche structure of the security; and      

(ix)  
    other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies.      
  The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments on other invested asset classes is highly subjective and is
based upon the Company s periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available.
     See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information relating to
investment impairments.        Derivative Financial Instruments     
  The determination of estimated fair value of freestanding derivatives, when quoted market values are not available, is
based on market standard valuation methodologies and inputs that management believes are consistent with what other market participants would use when pricing the instruments. Derivative valuations can be affected by changes in interest rates,
foreign currency exchange rates, financial indices, credit spreads, default risk, nonperformance risk, volatility, liquidity and changes in estimates and assumptions used in the pricing models. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional details on significant inputs into the OTC derivative pricing models and credit risk adjustment.      The Company issues certain variable annuity products with guaranteed minimum benefits, which are measured at estimated fair value separately from the host variable annuity product, with changes in
estimated fair value reported in net derivative gains (losses). The estimated fair values of these embedded derivatives are determined based on the present value of projected future benefits minus the present value of projected future fees. The
projections of future benefits and future fees require capital market and actuarial assumptions including expectations concerning policyholder behavior. A risk neutral valuation methodology is used under which the cash flows from the guarantees are
projected under multiple capital market scenarios using observable risk free rates. The valuation of these embedded derivatives also includes an adjustment for the Company s nonperformance risk and risk margins for non-capital market inputs.
The nonperformance risk adjustment, which is captured as a spread over the risk free rate in determining the discount rate to discount the cash flows of the liability, is determined by taking into consideration publicly available information
relating to spreads in the secondary market for MetLife, Inc. s debt, including related credit default swaps. These observable spreads are then adjusted, as necessary, to reflect the priority of these liabilities and the claims paying ability
of the issuing insurance subsidiaries compared to MetLife, Inc. Risk margins are established to capture the non-capital market risks of the instrument which represent the additional compensation a market participant would require to assume the risks
related to the uncertainties in certain actuarial assumptions. The establishment of risk margins requires the use of significant management judgment, including assumptions of the amount and cost of capital needed to cover the guarantees.   

         89   

Table of Contents  

   As part of its regular review of critical accounting estimates, the Company
periodically assesses inputs for estimating nonperformance risk in fair value measurements. During the second quarter of 2010, the Company completed a study that aggregated and evaluated data, including historical recovery rates of insurance
companies, as well as policyholder behavior observed during the recent financial crisis. As a result, at the end of the second quarter of 2010, the Company refined the manner in which its insurance subsidiaries incorporate expected recovery rates
into the nonperformance risk adjustment for purposes of estimating the fair value of investment-type contracts and embedded derivatives within insurance contracts. The refinement impacted the Company s income from continuing operations, net of
income tax, with no effect on operating earnings.      The table below illustrates the impact that a range of
reasonably likely variances in credit spreads would have on the Company s consolidated balance sheet, excluding the effect of income tax. However, these estimated effects do not take into account potential changes in other variables, such as
equity price levels and market volatility, that can also contribute significantly to changes in carrying values. Therefore, the table does not necessarily reflect the ultimate impact on the consolidated financial statements under the credit spread
variance scenarios presented below.      In determining the ranges, the Company has considered current market
conditions, as well as the market level of spreads that can reasonably be anticipated over the near term. The ranges do not reflect extreme market conditions experienced during the recent financial crisis as the Company does not consider those to be
reasonably likely events in the near future.       
    The accounting for derivatives is complex and interpretations of accounting standards
continue to evolve in practice. If it is determined that hedge accounting designations were not appropriately applied, reported net income could be materially affected. Differences in judgment as to the availability and application of hedge
accounting designations and the appropriate accounting treatment may result in a differing impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Company from that previously reported. Assessments of hedge effectiveness and measurements of
ineffectiveness of hedging relationships are also subject to interpretations and estimations and different interpretations or estimates may have a material effect on the amount reported in net income.   
  Variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits may be more costly than expected in volatile or declining equity
markets. Market conditions including, but not limited to, changes in interest rates, equity indices, market volatility and foreign currency exchange rates, changes in the Company s nonperformance risk, variations in actuarial assumptions
regarding policyholder behavior, mortality and risk margins related to non-capital market inputs, may result in significant fluctuations in the estimated fair value of the guarantees that could materially affect net income. If interpretations
change, there is a risk that features previously not bifurcated may require bifurcation and reporting at estimated fair value in the consolidated financial statements and respective changes in estimated fair value could materially affect net income.
     Additionally, the Company ceded the risk associated with certain of the variable annuities with guaranteed
minimum benefits described in the preceding paragraphs. The value of the embedded derivatives on the ceded risk is determined using a methodology consistent with that described previously for the guarantees directly written by the Company with the
exception of the input for nonperformance risk that reflects the credit of the   
         90   

Table of Contents  

reinsurer. Because certain of the direct guarantees do not meet the definition of an embedded derivative and, thus are not accounted for at fair value, significant fluctuations in net income may
occur since the change in fair value of the embedded derivative on the ceded risk is being recorded in net income without a corresponding and offsetting change in fair value of the direct guarantee.   
  See Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Company s
derivatives and hedging programs.        Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired     
  The Company incurs significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. Costs that vary
with and relate to the production of new and renewal insurance business are deferred as DAC. Such costs consist principally of commissions, certain agency expenses, policy issuance expenses and certain advertising costs. VOBA represents the excess
of book value over the estimated fair value of acquired insurance, annuity, and investment-type contracts in-force at the acquisition date. For certain acquired blocks of business, the estimated fair value of the in-force contract obligations
exceeded the book value of assumed in-force insurance policy liabilities, resulting in negative VOBA, which is presented separately from VOBA as an additional insurance liability included in other policy-related balances. The estimated fair value of
the acquired liabilities is based on actuarially determined projections, by each block of business, of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment
returns, nonperformance risk adjustment and other factors. Actual experience on the purchased business may vary from these projections. The recovery of DAC and VOBA is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. The Company will
adopt new guidance regarding the accounting for DAC beginning in the first quarter of 2012 and will apply it retrospectively to all prior periods presented in its consolidated financial statements for all insurance contracts. See Note 1 of the Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      Separate account rates of return on variable universal life
contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts affect in-force account balances on such contracts each reporting period which can result in significant fluctuations in amortization of DAC and VOBA. The Company s practice to determine the
impact of gross profits resulting from returns on separate accounts assumes that long-term appreciation in equity markets is not changed by short-term market fluctuations, but is only changed when sustained interim deviations are expected. The
Company monitors these events and only changes the assumption when its long-term expectation changes. The effect of an increase/(decrease) by 100 basis points in the assumed future rate of return is reasonably likely to result in a
decrease/(increase) in the DAC and VOBA amortization of approximately $161 million with an offset to the Company s unearned revenue liability of approximately $26 million for this factor.   
  The Company also periodically reviews other long-term assumptions underlying the projections of estimated gross margins
and profits. These include investment returns, policyholder dividend scales, interest crediting rates, mortality, persistency, and expenses to administer business. Assumptions used in the calculation of estimated gross margins and profits which may
have significantly changed are updated annually. If the update of assumptions causes expected future gross margins and profits to increase, DAC and VOBA amortization will decrease, resulting in a current period increase to earnings. The opposite
result occurs when the assumption update causes expected future gross margins and profits to decrease.      The
Company s most significant assumption updates resulting in a change to expected future gross margins and profits and the amortization of DAC and VOBA are due to revisions to expected future investment returns, expenses, in-force or persistency
assumptions and policyholder dividends on participating traditional life contracts, variable and universal life contracts and annuity contracts. The Company expects these assumptions to be the ones most reasonably likely to cause significant changes
in the future. Changes in these assumptions can be offsetting and the Company is unable to predict their movement or offsetting impact over time.   
         91   

Table of Contents  

   At December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, DAC and VOBA for the Company was
$28.0 billion, $27.1 billion and $19.1 billion, respectively. Amortization of DAC and VOBA associated with the variable and universal life and the annuity contracts was significantly impacted by movements in equity markets. The
following chart illustrates the effect on DAC and VOBA of changing each of the respective assumptions, as well as updating estimated gross margins or profits with actual gross margins or profits during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009. Increases (decreases) in DAC and VOBA balances, as presented below, resulted in a corresponding decrease (increase) in amortization.       
    The following represents significant items contributing to the changes to DAC and VOBA
amortization in 2011:       

The decrease in equity markets during the year lowered separate account balances which led to a reduction in actual and expected future gross
profits on variable universal life contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts resulting in an increase of $145 million in DAC and VOBA amortization.      

Changes in net investment gains (losses) resulted in the following changes in DAC and VOBA amortization:      

Actual gross profits decreased as a result of an increase in liabilities associated with guarantee obligations on variable annuities, resulting in a
decrease of DAC and VOBA amortization of $531 million, excluding the impact from the Company s nonperformance risk and risk margins, which are described below. This decrease in actual gross profits was more than offset by freestanding
derivative gains associated with the hedging of such guarantee obligations, which resulted in an increase in DAC and VOBA amortization of $847 million.      

The widening of the Company s nonperformance risk adjustment decreased the valuation of guarantee liabilities, increased actual gross profits
and increased DAC and VOBA amortization by $260 million. This was partially offset by higher risk margins which increased the guarantee liability valuations, decreased actual gross profits and decreased DAC and VOBA amortization by
$72 million.          

The remainder of the impact of net investment gains (losses), which increased DAC amortization by $72 million, was primarily attributable to
current period investment activities.         The following represents significant items
contributing to the changes to DAC and VOBA amortization in 2010:       

Changes in net investment gains (losses) resulted in the following changes in DAC and VOBA amortization:      

Actual gross profits increased as a result of a decrease in liabilities associated with guarantee obligations on variable annuities, resulting in an
increase of DAC and VOBA amortization of $197 million, excluding the impact from the Company s nonperformance risk and risk margins, which      
         92   

Table of Contents  

are described below. This increase in actual gross profits was partially offset by freestanding derivative losses associated with the hedging of such guarantee obligations, which resulted in a
decrease in DAC and VOBA amortization of $88 million.          

The narrowing of the Company s nonperformance risk adjustment increased the valuation of guarantee liabilities, decreased actual gross profits
and decreased DAC and VOBA amortization by $96 million. In addition, higher risk margins which increased the guarantee liability valuations, decreased actual gross profits and decreased DAC and VOBA amortization by $18 million.

The remainder of the impact of net investment gains (losses), which increased DAC amortization by $129 million, was primarily attributable to
current period investment activities.          

Included in policyholder dividends and other was an increase in DAC and VOBA amortization of $42 million as a result of changes to long-term
assumptions. In addition, amortization increased by $39 million as a result of favorable gross margin variances. The remainder of the increase was due to various immaterial items.      
  The following represents significant items contributing to the changes to DAC and VOBA amortization in 2009:   

Changes in net investment gains (losses) resulted in the following changes in DAC and VOBA amortization:      

Actual gross profits increased as a result of a decrease in liabilities associated with guarantee obligations on variable annuities, resulting in an
increase of DAC and VOBA amortization of $995 million, excluding the impact from the Company s nonperformance risk and risk margins, which are described below. This increase in actual gross profits was partially offset by freestanding
derivative losses associated with the hedging of such guarantee obligations, which resulted in a decrease in DAC and VOBA amortization of $636 million.      

The narrowing of the Company s nonperformance risk adjustment increased the valuation of guarantee liabilities, decreased actual gross profits
and decreased DAC and VOBA amortization by $607 million. This was partially offset by lower risk margins which decreased the guarantee liability valuations, increased actual gross profits and increased DAC and VOBA amortization by
$20 million.          

The remainder of the impact of net investment gains (losses), which decreased DAC amortization by $484 million, was primarily attributable to
current period investment activities.          

Included in policyholder dividends and other was a decrease in DAC and VOBA amortization of $90 million as a result of changes to long-term
assumptions. The remainder of the decrease was due to various immaterial items.         The
Company s DAC and VOBA balance is also impacted by unrealized investment gains (losses) and the amount of amortization which would have been recognized if such gains and losses had been realized. The increase in unrealized investment gains
decreased the DAC and VOBA balance by $879 million and $1.4 billion in 2011 and 2010, respectively. The decrease in unrealized investment losses decreased the DAC and VOBA balance by $2.8 billion in 2009. Notes 3 and 6 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements include the DAC and VOBA offset to unrealized investment losses.        Goodwill
       Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances,
such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that there may be justification for conducting an interim test.      For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill is compared to the carrying
value of that goodwill to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. In such instances, the implied fair value of the goodwill is   
         93   

Table of Contents  

determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill that would be determined in a business acquisition. The key inputs, judgments and assumptions necessary in determining estimated fair value
of the reporting units include projected operating earnings, current book value (with and without accumulated other comprehensive income), the level of economic capital required to support the mix of business, long-term growth rates, comparative
market multiples, the account value of in-force business, projections of new and renewal business, as well as margins on such business, the level of interest rates, credit spreads, equity market levels, and the discount rate that we believe is
appropriate for the respective reporting unit. The estimated fair values of the retirement products and individual life reporting units are particularly sensitive to the equity market levels.   
  We apply significant judgment when determining the estimated fair value of our reporting units and when assessing the
relationship of market capitalization to the aggregate estimated fair value of our reporting units. The valuation methodologies utilized are subject to key judgments and assumptions that are sensitive to change. Estimates of fair value are
inherently uncertain and represent only management s reasonable expectation regarding future developments. These estimates and the judgments and assumptions upon which the estimates are based will, in all likelihood, differ in some respects
from actual future results. Declines in the estimated fair value of our reporting units could result in goodwill impairments in future periods which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial position.   
  During the third quarter of 2011, the Company announced its decision to explore the sale of MetLife Bank s
depository business. As a result, in September 2011, the Company performed a goodwill impairment test on MetLife Bank, which is a separate reporting unit within Corporate   Other. As a result of the testing, the Company recorded a
$65 million goodwill impairment charge that is reflected as a net investment loss for the year ended December 31, 2011. See Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  In addition, the Company performed its annual goodwill impairment tests of its other reporting units and concluded that
the fair values of all reporting units were in excess of their carrying values and, therefore, goodwill was not impaired. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate potential triggering events that may affect the estimated fair value of our reporting units to
assess whether any goodwill impairment exists.      In the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company performed interim
goodwill impairment testing on the Retirement Products reporting unit. This testing was due to adverse market conditions, which caused both the equity markets and interest rates to decline. The fair value of the Retirement Products reporting unit,
which was calculated based on application of an actuarial valuation approach, exceeded the carrying value by approximately 10%. The valuation methodology is subject to judgments and assumptions that are sensitive to change. If we had assumed that
the discount rate was 100 basis points higher than the discount rate, the fair value of the Retirement Products reporting unit would have exceeded the carrying value by approximately 2%. As of December 31, 2011, the amount of goodwill allocated
to the Retirement Products reporting unit was approximately $1.7 billion. The estimate of fair value is inherently uncertain and the judgments and assumptions upon which the estimate is based, will, in all likelihood, differ in some respects from
actual future results. A change in market conditions, including equity market returns, interest rate levels and market volatility could result in a goodwill impairment.   
  In the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company announced that it will be reorganizing its business into three broad
geographic regions, The Americas, EMEA and Asia, and creating a global employee benefits business, to better reflect its global reach. As a result, the Company s reporting structure may change the composition of certain of its reporting units.
     See Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the
Company s goodwill.        Liability for Future Policy Benefits     
  Generally, future policy benefits are payable over an extended period of time and related liabilities are calculated as
the present value of future expected benefits to be paid reduced by the present value of future expected premiums. Such liabilities are established based on methods and underlying assumptions in accordance with GAAP and applicable actuarial
standards. Principal assumptions used in the establishment of liabilities for   
         94   

Table of Contents  

future policy benefits are mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal, retirement, disability incidence, disability terminations, investment returns, inflation, expenses and other contingent
events as appropriate to the respective product type and geographical area. These assumptions are established at the time the policy is issued and are intended to estimate the experience for the period the policy benefits are payable. Utilizing
these assumptions, liabilities are established on a block of business basis. If experience is less favorable than assumed, additional liabilities may be established, resulting in a charge to policyholder benefits and claims.   
  Future policy benefit liabilities for disabled lives are estimated using the present value of benefits method and
experience assumptions as to claim terminations, expenses and interest.      Liabilities for unpaid claims are
estimated based upon the Company s historical experience and other actuarial assumptions that consider the effects of current developments, anticipated trends and risk management programs, reduced for anticipated salvage and subrogation.
     Future policy benefit liabilities for minimum death and income benefit guarantees relating to certain annuity
contracts are based on estimates of the expected value of benefits in excess of the projected account balance, recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. Liabilities for universal and variable
life secondary guarantees and paid-up guarantees are determined by estimating the expected value of death benefits payable when the account balance is projected to be zero and recognizing those benefits ratably over the accumulation period based on
total expected assessments. The assumptions used in estimating these liabilities are consistent with those used for amortizing DAC, and are thus subject to the same variability and risk. The assumptions of investment performance and volatility for
variable products are consistent with historical experience of the appropriate underlying equity index, such as the S P 500 Index.      The Company periodically reviews its estimates of actuarial liabilities for future policy benefits and compares them with its actual experience. Differences between actual experience and the assumptions
used in pricing these policies and guarantees, as well as in the establishment of the related liabilities result in variances in profit and could result in losses.   
  See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Company s
liability for future policy benefits.        Reinsurance     
  Accounting for reinsurance requires extensive use of assumptions and estimates, particularly related to the future
performance of the underlying business and the potential impact of counterparty credit risks. The Company periodically reviews actual and anticipated experience compared to the aforementioned assumptions used to establish assets and liabilities
relating to ceded and assumed reinsurance and evaluates the financial strength of counterparties to its reinsurance agreements using criteria similar to that evaluated in the security impairment process discussed previously. Additionally, for each
of its reinsurance agreements, the Company determines whether the agreement provides indemnification against loss or liability relating to insurance risk, in accordance with applicable accounting standards. The Company reviews all contractual
features, particularly those that may limit the amount of insurance risk to which the reinsurer is subject or features that delay the timely reimbursement of claims. If the Company determines that a reinsurance agreement does not expose the
reinsurer to a reasonable possibility of a significant loss from insurance risk, the Company records the agreement using the deposit method of accounting.      See Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Company s reinsurance programs.   
    Income Taxes        The Company provides for federal, state and foreign income taxes currently payable, as well as those deferred due to temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and
liabilities. The Company s accounting for income taxes represents management s best estimate of various events and   
         95   

Table of Contents  

transactions. These tax laws are complex and are subject to differing interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. In establishing a provision for income tax
expense, we must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws. We must also make estimates about when in the future certain items will affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions, both
domestic and foreign.      The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of sufficient taxable
income within the carryback or carryforward periods under the tax law in the applicable tax jurisdiction. Valuation allowances are established when management determines, based on available information, that it is more likely than not that deferred
income tax assets will not be realized. Factors in management s determination include the performance of the business and its ability to generate capital gains. Significant judgment is required in determining whether valuation allowances should
be established, as well as the amount of such allowances. When making such determination, consideration is given to, among other things, the following:       

(i)  
    future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards;      

(ii)  
    future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences;      

(iii)  
    taxable income in prior carryback years; and      

(iv)  
    tax planning strategies.         Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be subject to review and adjudication by the court systems of the various tax jurisdictions or may be settled with the taxing authority upon audit. The
Company determines whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the benefit is recorded in the financial statements. The Company may be required to
change its provision for income taxes when estimates used in determining valuation allowances on deferred tax assets significantly change, or when receipt of new information indicates the need for adjustment in valuation allowances. Additionally,
future events, such as changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such laws or regulations, could have an impact on the provision for income tax and the effective tax rate. Any such changes could significantly affect the amounts
reported in the consolidated financial statements in the year these changes occur.      See Note 15 of the Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Company s income taxes.        Employee
Benefit Plans        Certain subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. sponsor and/or administer pension and other
postretirement benefit plans covering employees who meet specified eligibility requirements. The obligations and expenses associated with these plans require an extensive use of assumptions such as the discount rate, expected rate of return on plan
assets, rate of future compensation increases, healthcare cost trend rates, as well as assumptions regarding participant demographics such as rate and age of retirements, withdrawal rates and mortality. In consultation with our external consulting
actuarial firms, we determine these assumptions based upon a variety of factors such as historical performance of the plan and its assets, currently available market and industry data, and expected benefit payout streams. We determine our expected
rate of return on plan assets based upon an approach that considers inflation, real return, term premium, credit spreads, equity risk premium and capital appreciation, as well as expenses, expected asset manager performance and the effect of
rebalancing for the equity, debt and real estate asset mix applied on a weighted average basis to our pension asset portfolio. Given the amount of plan assets as of December 31, 2010, if we had assumed an expected rate of return for both our
pension and other postretirement benefit plans that was 100 basis points higher or 100 basis points lower than the rates we assumed, the change in our net periodic costs would have been a decrease of $75 million and an increase of $75 million,
respectively. This considers only changes in our assumed long-term rate of return given the level and mix of   
         96   

Table of Contents  

invested assets at the beginning of the year, without consideration of possible changes in any of the other assumptions described above that could ultimately accompany any changes in our assumed
long-term rate of return.      We determine our discount rates used to value the pension and postretirement
obligations, based upon rates commensurate with current yields on high quality corporate bonds. Given the amount of pension and postretirement obligations as of December 31, 2010, the beginning of the measurement year, if we had assumed a
discount rate for both our pension and postretirement benefit plans that was 100 basis points higher or 100 basis points lower than the rates we assumed, the change in our net periodic costs would have been a decrease of $122 million and an increase
of $142 million, respectively. This considers only changes in our assumed discount rates without consideration of possible changes in any of the other assumptions described above that could ultimately accompany any changes in our assumed discount
rate. The assumptions used may differ materially from actual results due to, among other factors, changing market and economic conditions and changes in participant demographics. These differences may have a significant effect on the Company s
consolidated financial statements and liquidity.      See Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional assumptions used in measuring liabilities relating to the Company s employee benefit plans.   
    Litigation Contingencies        The Company is a party to a number of legal actions and is involved in a number of regulatory investigations. Given the inherent unpredictability of these matters, it is difficult to estimate the impact
on the Company s financial position. Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities related to certain lawsuits, including the Company s
asbestos-related liability, are especially difficult to estimate due to the limitation of available data and uncertainty regarding numerous variables that can affect liability estimates. The data and variables that impact the assumptions used to
estimate the Company s asbestos-related liability include the number of future claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity of disease in pending and future claims, the impact of the number of new claims filed in a
particular jurisdiction and variations in the law in the jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible impact of tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to allow plaintiffs to pursue claims against the Company when exposure to
asbestos took place after the dangers of asbestos exposure were well known, and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts. On a quarterly and annual basis, the Company reviews relevant information with respect to
liabilities for litigation, regulatory investigations and litigation-related contingencies to be reflected in the Company s consolidated financial statements. It is possible that an adverse outcome in certain of the Company s litigation
and regulatory investigations, including asbestos-related cases, or the use of different assumptions in the determination of amounts recorded could have a material effect upon the Company s consolidated net income or cash flows in particular
quarterly or annual periods.      See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information regarding the Company s assessment of litigation contingencies.       Economic Capital    
  Economic capital is an internally developed risk capital model, the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the
business and to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. The economic capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the risks inherent in the Company s business.   
  Effective January 1, 2011, the Company updated its economic capital model to align segment allocated equity with
emerging standards and consistent risk principles. Such changes to the Company s economic capital model are applied prospectively. Segment net investment income is also credited or charged based on the level of allocated equity; however,
changes in allocated equity do not impact the Company s consolidated net investment income, operating earnings or income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax.   
         97   

Table of Contents  

    Acquisitions and Dispositions    
  See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  During 2011, a local operating subsidiary of American Life closed on the purchase of a 99.86% stake in a Turkish life
insurance and pension company and at the same time entered into an exclusive 15-year distribution arrangement with the seller to distribute the company s products in Turkey. Also in 2011, American Life agreed to sell certain closed blocks of
business in the U.K. Finally, in 2011, Punjab National Bank ( PNB ) agreed to acquire a 30% stake in MetLife India Insurance Company Limited ( MetLife India ) and to enter into a separate exclusive 10-year distribution
arrangement to sell MetLife India s products through PNB s branch network. PNB s acquisition of the 30% stake in MetLife India is subject to, among other things, regulatory approval and final agreements among PNB and the existing
shareholders of MetLife India. If such agreements are not obtained, or the transaction does not receive regulatory approval, PNB may request to amend or cancel the distribution agreement.   
  In addition, in 2012, local operating subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. agreed to acquire, from members of the Aviva Plc
group ( Aviva ), Aviva s life insurance business in the Czech Republic and Hungary and Aviva s life insurance and pensions business in Romania. The closing of each of these transactions is subject to regulatory and other
approvals.   
         98   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    
    Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2010     
    Consolidated Results        We have experienced growth and an increase in market share in several of our businesses. Sales of our domestic annuity products were up 51% driven by strong growth in variable annuities across all
distribution channels. Even with the impact of the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami, our sales results in Japan are stronger than anticipated and continue to show steady growth and improvement across essentially all distribution channels. Market
penetration continues in our pension closeout business in the U.K.; however, our domestic pension closeout business has been adversely impacted by a combination of poor equity market returns and lower interest rates. In the U.S., sustained high
levels of unemployment and a challenging pricing environment continue to depress growth across our group insurance businesses. While we experienced growth in our traditional life and universal life businesses, sales of group life and non-medical
health products declined. Policy sales of auto and homeowners products decreased as the housing and automobile markets remained sluggish. We experienced steady growth and improvement in sales of the majority of our products abroad.   

99   

Table of Contents  

   Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.
     During the year ended December 31, 2011, income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax,
increased $4.2 billion to $7.0 billion primarily driven by a favorable change in net derivative gains (losses), partially offset by increased net investment losses, net of related adjustments, principally associated with DAC and VOBA amortization.
Also included in income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, are the results of the Divested Businesses. In addition, operating earnings increased, reflecting the impact of the Acquisition.   
  We manage our investment portfolio using disciplined Asset/Liability Management ( ALM ) principles, focusing on
cash flow and duration to support our current and future liabilities. Our intent is to match the timing and amount of liability cash outflows with invested assets that have cash inflows of comparable timing and amount, while optimizing, net of
income tax, risk-adjusted net investment income and risk-adjusted total return. Our investment portfolio is heavily weighted toward fixed income investments, with over 80% of our portfolio invested in fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans.
These securities and loans have varying maturities and other characteristics which cause them to be generally well suited for matching the cash flow and duration of insurance liabilities. Other invested asset classes including, but not limited to,
equity securities, other limited partnership interests and real estate and real estate joint ventures, provide additional diversification and opportunity for long-term yield enhancement in addition to supporting the cash flow and duration objectives
of our investment portfolio. We also use derivatives as an integral part of our management of the investment portfolio to hedge certain risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currencies, credit spreads and equity market levels.
Additional considerations for our investment portfolio include current and expected market conditions and expectations for changes within our specific mix of products and business segments. In addition, the general account investment portfolio
includes, within trading and other securities, contractholder-directed investments supporting unit-linked variable annuity type liabilities, which do not qualify as separate account assets. The returns on these contractholder-directed investments,
which can vary significantly period to period, include changes in estimated fair value subsequent to purchase, inure to contractholders and are offset in earnings by a corresponding change in policyholder account balances through interest credited
to policyholder account balances.      The composition of the investment portfolio of each business segment is
tailored to the specific characteristics of its insurance liabilities, causing certain portfolios to be shorter in duration and others to be longer in duration. Accordingly, certain portfolios are more heavily weighted in longer duration, higher
yielding fixed maturity securities, or certain sub-sectors of fixed maturity securities, than other portfolios.   
  Investments are purchased to support our insurance liabilities and not to generate net investment gains and losses.
However, net investment gains and losses are incurred and can change significantly from period to period due to changes in external influences, including changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currencies, credit spreads and equity
markets; counterparty specific factors such as financial performance, credit rating and collateral valuation; and internal factors such as portfolio rebalancing. Changes in these factors from period to period can significantly impact the levels of
both impairments and realized gains and losses on investments sold.      We use freestanding interest rate,
equity, credit and currency derivatives to provide economic hedges of certain invested assets and insurance liabilities, including embedded derivatives within certain of our variable annuity minimum benefit guarantees. For those hedges not
designated as accounting hedges, changes in market factors can lead to the recognition of fair value changes in net derivative gains (losses) without an offsetting gain or loss recognized in earnings for the item being hedged even though these are
effective economic hedges. Additionally, we issue liabilities and purchase assets that contain embedded derivatives whose changes in estimated fair value are sensitive to changes in market factors and are also recognized in net derivative gains
(losses).      The favorable change in net derivative gains (losses) of $3.3 billion, from losses of $172 million
in 2010 to gains of $3.1 billion in 2011, was driven by a favorable change in freestanding derivatives of $3.9 billion, which   
         100

Table of Contents  

was partially offset by an unfavorable change in embedded derivatives of $583 million primarily associated with variable annuity minimum benefit guarantees. The $3.9 billion favorable change in
freestanding derivatives was primarily attributable to the impact of falling long-term and mid-term interest rates and equity market movements and volatility. Long-term and mid-term interest rates fell more in 2011 than in 2010 which had a positive
impact of $2.1 billion on our interest rate derivatives, $670 million of which was attributable to hedges of variable annuity minimum benefit guarantee liabilities that are accounted for as embedded derivatives. The impact of equity market movements
and volatility in 2011 compared to 2010 had a positive impact of $1.5 billion on our equity derivatives, which was primarily attributable to hedges of variable annuity minimum benefit guarantee liabilities that are accounted for as embedded
derivatives.      Certain variable annuity products with minimum benefit guarantees contain embedded derivatives
that are measured at estimated fair value separately from the host variable annuity contract with changes in estimated fair value recorded in net derivative gains (losses). The fair value of these embedded derivatives also includes an adjustment for
nonperformance risk, which is unhedged. The $583 million unfavorable change in embedded derivatives was primarily attributable to hedged risks relating to changes in market factors of $1.6 billion and an unfavorable change in other unhedged
non-market risks of $308 million, partially offset by a favorable change in unhedged risks for changes in the adjustment for nonperformance risk of $1.3 billion. The aforementioned $1.6 billion unfavorable change in embedded derivatives was more
than offset by favorable changes on freestanding derivatives that hedge these risks, which are described in the preceding paragraphs.      The increase in net investment losses primarily reflects impairments on Greece sovereign debt securities, intent-to-sell impairments on other sovereign debt securities due to the repositioning of the
ALICO portfolio into longer duration and higher yielding investments, intent-to-sell impairments related to the Divested Businesses, and lower net gains on sales of fixed maturity and equity securities. These losses were partially offset by net
gains on the sales of certain real estate investments and reductions in the mortgage valuation allowance reflecting improving real estate market fundamentals.      Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, related to the Divested Businesses, excluding net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), decreased $152 million to a loss
of $41 million in 2011 compared to a gain of $111 million in 2010. Included in this loss was a reduction in total revenues of $73 million and an increase in total expenses of $79 million. As previously mentioned, the Divested Businesses include
certain operations of MetLife Bank and the Caribbean Business.      Income tax expense for the year ended
December 31, 2011 was $3.1 billion, or 31% of income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income tax, compared with $1.2 billion, or 30% of income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income tax, for 2010.
The Company s 2011 and 2010 effective tax rates differ from the U.S. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of certain permanent tax differences, including non-taxable investment income and tax credits for investments in low income
housing, in relation to income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income tax, as well as certain foreign permanent tax differences.      As more fully described in the discussion of performance measures above, we use operating earnings, which does not equate to income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, as determined in
accordance with GAAP, to analyze our performance, evaluate segment performance, and allocate resources. We believe that the presentation of operating earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders, as we measure it for management
purposes, enhances the understanding of our performance by highlighting the results of operations and the underlying profitability drivers of the business. Operating earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders should not be
viewed as substitutes for GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, and GAAP net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc. s common shareholders, respectively. Operating earnings available to common shareholders increased
$1.5 billion to $5.3 billion in 2011 from $3.8 billion in 2010.   
         101

Table of Contents  

     Reconciliation of income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, to
operating earnings available to common shareholders          Year Ended December 31, 2011     
   
      Year Ended December 31, 2010     

(1) See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses for the components of such adjustments.   
         102

Table of Contents  

     Reconciliation of GAAP revenues to operating revenues and GAAP expenses to operating
expenses          Year Ended December 31, 2011     
   
      Year Ended December 31, 2010     

(1) See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses for the components of such adjustments.   
         103

Table of Contents  

     Consolidated Results   Operating     
   
    Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.   
  The increase in operating earnings reflects the impact of the Acquisition with the corresponding effects on each of our
financial statement lines in both Japan and Other International Regions. Further trends and matters impacting our business and the comparison to 2010 results are discussed below.   
  Positive results from strong sales in 2011 were offset by losses from severe weather and the impact of the low interest
rate environment. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a slightly positive impact on results compared to 2010.      In 2011, we benefited from strong sales as well as growth and higher persistency in our business, across many of our products. As a result, we experienced growth in our investment portfolio, as well as
our average separate account assets, generating both higher net investment income of $479 million and higher policy fee income of $265 million. Since many of our products are interest spread-based, the growth in our individual life, long-term care
( LTC ) and structured settlement businesses also resulted in a $131 million increase in interest credited expenses. These increased sales also generated an increase in commission and other volume-related expenses of $622 million, which
was largely offset by an increase of $538 million in related DAC capitalization. In addition, other non-variable expenses increased $73 million due to growth in our existing businesses.   
  On an annual basis, we perform experience studies, as well as update our assumptions regarding both expected policyholder
behaviors and the related investment environment. These updates, commonly known as unlocking events, result in changes to certain insurance-related liabilities, DAC and revenue amortization. The impact of updates to our assumptions in both 2011 and
2010, resulted in a net increase to operating earnings of $23 million, in the current year.      In the fourth
quarter of 2011, we announced a reduction in our dividend scale related to our closed block. The impact of this action increased operating earnings by $54 million.   
         104

Table of Contents  

   Severe weather during 2011 was the primary driver of our unfavorable claims
experience in Auto   Home, which decreased operating earnings by $239 million. In addition, in the third quarter of 2011, we incurred a $117 million charge to increase reserves in connection with our use of the Death Master File, impacting
primarily Insurance Products. These events overshadowed favorable claims experience in our dental and disability businesses and strong mortality gains in our group life business, which, combined, improved operating earnings by $100 million.
     Market factors, specifically the current low interest rate environment, continued to be a challenge during
2011. Also in 2011, equity markets remained relatively flat compared to much stronger 2010 equity market performance. Investment yields were negatively impacted by the current low interest rate environment and lower returns in the equity markets,
partially offset by improving real estate markets, resulting in a $157 million decrease in net investment income. DAC, VOBA and DSI amortization and certain insurance-related liabilities are sensitive to market fluctuations, which was the primary
driver of higher expenses of $102 million in these categories. In particular, the less favorable 2011 investment markets caused acceleration of DAC amortization. Partially offsetting these decreases was a $119 million improvement in operating
earnings, primarily driven by lower average crediting rates on our annuity and funding agreement businesses. The lower average crediting rates continue to reflect the lower investment returns available in the marketplace. Also contributing to the
decrease in interest credited is the impact from derivatives that are used to hedge certain liabilities in our funding agreement business. In addition, growth in our separate accounts due to favorable equity market performance in 2010 and stable
equity markets in 2011 resulted in increased fees and other revenues of $79 million.      Interest expense on debt
increased $109 million primarily as a result of debt issued in the third and fourth quarters of 2010 in connection with the Acquisition and Federal Home Loan Bank ( FHLB ) borrowings.   
  The Company incurred $40 million of expenses related to a liquidation plan filed by the Department of Financial Services
for ELNY in the third quarter of 2011. Results from our mortgage loan servicing business were lower driven by an increase in expenses of $31 million in response to both a larger portfolio and increased regulatory oversight.   
  The Company also benefited from a higher tax benefit in 2011 of $88 million over 2010 primarily due to $75 million of
charges in 2010 related to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (together, the  Health Care Act ). The Health Care Act reduced the tax deductibility of retiree health
care costs to the extent of any Medicare Part D subsidy received beginning in 2013. Because the deductibility of future retiree health care costs was reflected in our financial statements, the entire future impact of this change in law was required
to be recorded as a charge in the first quarter of 2010, when the legislation was enacted. The higher tax benefit was also a result of higher utilization of tax preferenced investments which provide tax credits and deductions.   
         105

Table of Contents  

     Insurance Products     
   
    Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.   
  Strong underwriting results generated about half of our increase in operating earnings. The remaining increase resulted
from the impact of annual assumption updates, lower policyholder dividends and higher fees from our variable and universal life business. These increases were dampened by the negative impacts of the sustained low interest rate environment.
     Growth in our open block traditional life and in our variable and universal life businesses was more than
offset by declines in our group life and non-medical health businesses, as well as the expected run-off from our closed block business. Sustained high levels of unemployment and a challenging pricing environment continue to depress growth in many of
our group insurance businesses. Our dental business benefited from higher enrollment and certain pricing actions, but this was more than offset by a decline in revenues from our disability business. This reduction was mainly due to net customer
cancellations and lower covered lives. Our LTC revenues were flat period over period, consistent with the discontinuance of the sale of this coverage at the end of 2010. Although revenues have declined from the prior year, current year premiums and
deposits, along with an expansion of our securities lending program, resulted in an increase in our average invested assets, which contributed $189 million to operating earnings. Mirroring the growth in average invested assets in our individual life
and LTC businesses, interest credited on long-duration contracts and on our policyholder account balances increased by $76 million. The aforementioned increased sales of our individual variable and universal life products, which was mainly driven by
our launch of a new product in the current year, coupled with ongoing organic growth in the business, increased operating earnings by $41 million. These increased sales also generated an increase in commission expenses, which was mostly offset by
the capitalization of these expenses. Broker dealer related revenues also increased during the year and were significantly offset by a corresponding increase in other expenses.   
  In 2011, pricing actions and improved claims experience, mainly as a result of stabilizing benefits utilization, drove a
$57 million increase in our dental results. Higher closures and lower incidences in 2011 contributed to the $43 million increase in our disability results. Our life businesses were essentially flat; however, lower claims incidence resulted in very
strong group life mortality gains, which were offset by increased severity of claims in the variable and universal life businesses. On an annual basis, we perform experience studies, as well as update
  
         106

Table of Contents  

our assumptions surrounding both expected policyholder behaviors and the related investment environment. These updates, commonly known as unlocking events, result in changes to certain insurance
related liabilities, DAC and revenue amortization. The impact of updates to our assumptions, in both 2011 and 2010 primarily related to policyholder behaviors, such as projected premium assumptions and various factors impacting persistency, coupled
with insurance related refinements, resulted in a net increase to operating earnings of $41 million. Partially offsetting these favorable impacts was a $109 million charge, recorded in the third quarter of the current year, related to our use of the
Death Master File, in both our group and individual life businesses.      Refinements in our DAC model in both
years as well as the impact of higher amortization in 2010 contributed to a $37 million net decrease in amortization. The higher level of amortization in 2010 was primarily due to the emergence of actual premium and lapse information which differed
from management s expectations.      In the fourth quarter of 2011, we announced a reduction to our dividend
scale related to our closed block. The impact of this action increased operating earnings by $54 million.   
  Market factors, specifically the current low interest rate environment, continued to be a challenge during 2011.
Investment yields were negatively impacted by lower returns on allocated equity and lower returns in the equity markets, partially offset by improving real estate markets. Unlike in Retirement Products and Corporate Benefit Funding, a reduction in
investment yield does not necessarily drive a corresponding change in the rates credited on policyholder account balances or amounts held for future policyholder benefits. The reduction in investment yield resulted in a $164 million decrease in
operating earnings. Partially offsetting this decline was the impact of updating projected market factors as part of our aforementioned annual update to assumptions. This update resulted in an unlocking event, resulting in a $32 million increase to
operating earnings.        Retirement Products     
   
    Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.   
  Total annuity sales increased 51% to $30.4 billion due to strong growth in variable annuities across all distribution
channels. Variable annuity product sales increased primarily due to the introduction of a new higher benefit, lower-risk variable annuity rider and changes in competitors  offerings which, we believe, made our products more attractive. We have
launched several changes to the products and riders we offer that we expect will reduce sales volumes in 2012, as we manage these sales volumes to strike the right balance among growth, profitability and risk. Total annuity net flows were $16.2
billion, higher than in 2010. Changes in interest rates   
         107

Table of Contents  

and equity markets can significantly impact our earnings. In 2011, interest rates declined while equity markets remained relatively flat compared to much stronger 2010 equity market performance.
Operating earnings were down 9% mainly due to these market factors.      Strong sales and higher persistency in
2011, along with the impact of an increase in allocated equity, increased operating earnings by $147 million. The strong sales of variable annuities increased our average separate account assets and, as a result, we generated higher asset-based fee
revenue on the separate account assets and higher net investment income, partially offset by increases in DAC amortization. Partially offsetting these favorable impacts was an increase in variable expenses, primarily related to new business
commissions and asset-based commissions of $38 million, net of related DAC capitalization. Other non-variable expenses also increased $16 million due to growth in the business.   
  Investment market performance reduced our operating earnings by $56 million. DAC, VOBA and DSI amortization, as well as
certain insurance-related liabilities, are sensitive to market fluctuations, which was the primary driver of higher expenses in these categories. In particular, the less favorable 2011 equity markets when compared to 2010 caused an acceleration of
DAC amortization. Lower investment returns on certain limited partnerships and lower returns on allocated equity also contributed to the decline in operating earnings. Partially offsetting these decreases was an improvement in operating earnings,
primarily driven by lower average crediting rates on annuity fixed rate funds. Lower average crediting rates continue to reflect the lower investment returns available in the marketplace. Growth in our separate accounts, due to favorable equity
market performance in 2010 and 2011, resulted in increased fees and other revenues.        To better align
with hedged risks, certain elements of our variable annuity hedging program that were previously recorded in net investment income were recorded in net derivative gains (losses) beginning in 2011 which resulted in a decrease in operating earnings of
$77 million. Lower income annuity mortality gains of $18 million also reduced operating earnings in 2011. We review and update our long-term assumptions used in our calculations of certain insurance-related liabilities and DAC annually, which may
result in changes and are recorded in the fourth quarter each year. This annual update of assumptions, other insurance liability refinements and DAC model revisions made during the year, contributed to a net operating earnings reduction of $12
million.        Corporate Benefit Funding     

108

Table of Contents  

   Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.
     Corporate Benefit Funding had strong pension closeout sales in the U.K., and strong sales of structured
settlements. Although the combination of poor equity returns and the low interest rate environment has resulted in underfunded pension plans, which reduces our customers  flexibility to engage in transactions such as pension closeouts, sales in
the U.K. remained strong as we continue to penetrate that market. Sales in our structured settlement business were strong as we remain very competitive in the marketplace. Premiums for these businesses were almost entirely offset by the related
change in policyholder benefits. However, current year premiums, deposits, funding agreement issuances, increased allocated equity, and the expansion of our securities lending program, all contributed to the growth of our average invested assets,
which led to an increase in net investment income of $167 million.      Deposits into separate accounts, including
guaranteed interest contracts, and corporate owned life insurance, increased significantly resulting in a $9 million increase in advisory fees and an $8 million increase in premium tax. However, these expenses are offset by a corresponding increase
in revenues.      Market factors, including the current low interest rate environment, have negatively impacted
our investment returns by $19 million. These lower investment returns include the impact of returns on invested economic capital. The low interest rate environment was also the primary driver of the decrease in interest credited to policyholders of
$81 million. Many of our funding agreement and guaranteed interest contract liabilities are tied to market indices. Interest rates on new business were set lower, as were the rates on existing business with terms that can fluctuate. Also
contributing to the decrease in interest credited is the impact from derivatives that are used to hedge certain liabilities in our funding agreement business. Commensurate with our strong sales of structured settlements, the interest credited
expense associated with these insurance liabilities increased $26 million.      The Company s use of the
Death Master File in connection with our post-retirement benefit business resulted in a charge in the third quarter of the current year of $8 million. Other insurance liability refinements and mortality results negatively impacted our year-over-year
operating earnings by $20 million.        Auto   Home     
   
    Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.   
  In 2011, operating results were negatively impacted by severe weather including record numbers of tornadoes in the second
quarter and Hurricane Irene in the third quarter. Policy sales decreased as the housing and new   
         109

Table of Contents  

automobile sales markets remained sluggish, resulting in a decrease in exposures. However, average premium per policy increased for both our homeowners and auto policies, more than offsetting the
negative impact from the decrease in exposures.      Adverse claims experience was the primary driver of the
decrease in operating earnings. Catastrophe-related losses increased $187 million compared to 2010 mainly due to severe storm activity in the U.S. during the second and third quarters of 2011, which resulted in $261 million of losses. The
second quarter included catastrophe-related losses mainly due to a record number of tornadoes for a one-month period that resulted in damage in many states. The third quarter included catastrophe-related losses resulting from the impact from
Hurricane Irene. In addition, current year non-catastrophe claim costs increased $75 million as a result of higher claim frequencies in both our auto and homeowners businesses due primarily to more severe winter weather in the first quarter of 2011
and to non-catastrophe wind and hail through the remainder of the year. The negative impact of these items was partially offset by additional favorable development of prior year losses of $23 million.   
  The increase in average premium per policy in both our homeowners and auto businesses improved operating earnings by
$60 million and the decrease in exposures resulted in a $4 million decrease in operating earnings as the negative impact from lower premiums exceeded the positive impact from lower claims. Exposures are primarily each automobile for the auto
line of business and each residence for the homeowners line of business.      The impact of the items discussed
above can be seen in the unfavorable change in the combined ratio, including catastrophes, to 104.9% in 2011 from 94.6% in 2010. The combined ratio, excluding catastrophes, was 89.1% in 2011 compared to 88.1% in 2010.   
  Higher commissions, resulting from the increase in average premium per policy, coupled with an increase in other
volume-related expenses contributed to the decrease in operating earnings. This increase is included in the $18 million increase in other expenses, including the net change in DAC.        Japan         
    Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.   
  Our Japan operation is comprised of the Japanese business acquired in the Acquisition and remains among the largest
foreign life insurers in Japan. The stability of this business is evidenced by a solvency margin ratio   
         110

Table of Contents  

significantly in excess of the legally mandated solvency margin in Japan and above average with respect to the industry. Through our Japan operation, we provide accident and health insurance,
life insurance, annuities and endowment products to both individuals and groups. Japan s operating earnings for 2010 include one month of results from the ALICO operations.   
  The Japanese economy, to which we face substantial exposure given our operations there, was significantly negatively
impacted by the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami. Although we expect modest growth in the Japanese economy during 2012, disruptions to the Japanese economy are having, and will continue to have, negative impacts on the overall global economy, not
all of which can be foreseen. Despite the impact of the earthquake and tsunami, our sales results continued to show steady growth and improvement across our captive agent, independent agent, broker, bancassurance, and direct marketing distribution
channels.      Japan reported premiums, fees and other revenues of $7.2 billion for 2011, including $4.3 billion
from accident and health insurance and $2.7 billion from life insurance products distributed through our multi-distribution platform. In addition, during 2011, the Company incurred $39 million of incremental insurance claims and operating
expenses related to the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami.        Other International Regions     
   
    Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.   
  Sales results continued to show steady growth and improvement, with increases over 2010 in essentially all of our
businesses. In the Asia Pacific region, sales continued to grow, driven by strong variable universal life sales, the launch of a whole life cancer product in Korea and higher group sales in the Australia business. In Latin America, accident and
health sales increased throughout the region. In addition, there was strong retirement sales growth in Mexico, as well as strong growth in Chile s immediate annuity products. Our business in Europe experienced higher credit life sales and
continued growth in our variable annuity business.      Reported operating earnings increased over 2010 as a
result of the inclusion of a full year of results of the ALICO operations other than Japan for 2011 compared to one month of results for 2010. The positive impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates improved reported earnings by $19
million for 2011 compared to 2010.   
         111

Table of Contents  

   In addition to the increase in operating earnings due to the ALICO
operations other than Japan, the current year benefited from business growth, most notably in Mexico, Korea and Ireland. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in the Japan reinsurance business mainly due to market performance. The
impact of the sale of the Company s interest in Mitsui Sumitomo MetLife Insurance Co., LTD ( MSI MetLife ) on April 1, 2011 also decreased operating results for 2011, as no earnings were recognized in the current year.
     Net investment income increased reflecting an increase from growth in average invested assets and a decrease
from lower yields. The increase in average invested assets reflects the Acquisition and growth in our businesses. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2010, investment earnings and interest credited related to contractholder-directed unit-linked
investments were excluded from operating revenues and operating expenses, as the contractholder, and not the Company, directs the investment of the funds. This change in presentation had no impact on operating earnings in the current period;
however, it unfavorably impacted the change in net investment income in 2011, when compared to 2010 as positive returns were incurred in 2010 from recovering equity markets. The corresponding favorable impact is reflected in interest credited
expense. Decreased yields reflect the decreased operating joint venture returns from the sale of MSI MetLife in second quarter of 2011, the Acquisition, as ALICO s acquired investment portfolio has a larger allocation to lower yielding
government securities, partially offset by the impact of higher inflation. The change in net investment income from inflation was offset by a similar change in the related insurance liabilities.   
  In addition to an increase associated with the Acquisition, operating expenses increased primarily due to higher
commissions and compensation expenses in Korea, Mexico, Brazil and Ireland due to business growth, a portion which is offset by DAC capitalization.        Corporate   Other         
    Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.   
  MetLife, Inc. completed four debt financings in August 2010 in connection with the Acquisition, issuing $1.0 billion of
2.375% senior notes, $1.0 billion of 4.75% senior notes, $750 million of 5.875% senior notes, and $250 million of floating rate senior notes. MetLife, Inc. also issued debt securities in November 2010, which are part of the $3.0 billion stated value
of common equity units. The proceeds from these debt issuances were used to finance the Acquisition.   
         112

Table of Contents  

   Operating earnings available to common shareholders and operating earnings
each increased $34 million, primarily due to higher net investment income and a higher tax benefit. These increases were partially offset by an increase in interest expense of $109 million, primarily resulting from the 2010 debt issuances, a
decrease in earnings related to resolutions of certain legal matters in 2010 and an increase in other expenses.   
  Net investment income increased $176 million due to an increase of $130 million from higher yields and an increase of $46
million from growth in average invested assets. Yields were primarily impacted by the decline in interest rates, as lower crediting rates were paid to the segments on the economic capital invested on their behalf period over period, lower returns in
equity markets and lower returns on alternative investments. An increase in the average invested assets was primarily due to proceeds from the debt issuances referenced above. Our investments primarily include structured securities, investment grade
corporate fixed maturities, mortgage loans and U.S. Treasury and agency securities. In addition, our investment portfolio includes the excess capital not allocated to the segments. Accordingly, it includes a higher allocation to certain other
invested asset classes to provide additional diversification and opportunity for long-term yield enhancement, including leveraged leases, other limited partnership interests, real estate, real estate joint ventures, trading and other securities and
equity securities.      Corporate   Other also benefited in 2011 from a higher tax benefit of
$133 million over 2010 primarily due to $75 million of charges in 2010 related to the Health Care Act. The higher tax benefit was also a result of higher utilization of tax preferenced investments which provide tax credits and deductions.
     Results from our mortgage loan servicing business were lower, driven by an increase in expenses of $31
million in response to both a larger portfolio and increased regulatory oversight. In addition hedging results were lower by $21 million.      The Company incurred $40 million of expenses related to a liquidation plan filed by the Department of Financial Services for ELNY in the third quarter of 2011. In addition, the Company increased
advertising costs by $15 million and incurred higher internal resources costs for associates committed to the Acquisition of $13 million. Minor fluctuations in various other expense categories, such as interest on uncertain tax positions, and
discretionary spending, such as consulting and postemployment related costs, offset each other and resulted in a small increase to earnings. Additionally, the resolutions of certain legal matters in the prior period resulted in $39 million of
lower operating earnings for 2011.   
         113

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    
    Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2009     
    Consolidated Results        We have experienced growth and an increase in market share in several of our businesses, which, together with improved overall market conditions compared to conditions a year ago, positively impacted our
results most significantly through increased net cash flows, improved yields on our investment portfolio and increased policy fee income. Sales of our domestic annuity products were up 14%, driven by an increase in variable annuity sales compared
with the prior year. We benefited in 2010 from strong sales of structured settlement products. Market penetration continues in our pension closeout business in the U.K.; however, although improving, our domestic pension closeout business has been
adversely impacted by a combination of poor equity returns and lower interest rates. High levels of unemployment continue to depress growth across our group insurance businesses due to lower covered payrolls. While we experienced growth in our group
life business, sales of non-medical health and individual life products declined. Sales of new homeowner and auto policies increased 11% and 4%, respectively, as the housing and automobile markets have improved. We experienced a 30% increase in
sales of retirement and savings products abroad.       
 
         114

Table of Contents  

   Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.
     During the year ended December 31, 2010, income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax
increased $5.1 billion to a gain of $2.8 billion from a loss of $2.3 billion in 2009, of which $2 million in losses was from the inclusion of one month of ALICO results in 2010. The change was predominantly due to a
$3.0 billion favorable change in net derivative gains (losses) and a $1.6 billion favorable change in net investment gains (losses). Offsetting these favorable variances totaling $4.6 billion were unfavorable changes in adjustments
related to net derivative and net investment gains (losses) of $518 million, net of income tax, principally associated with DAC and VOBA amortization, resulting in a total favorable variance related to net derivative and net investment gains
(losses), net of related adjustments and income tax, of $4.1 billion.      The favorable variance in net
derivative gains (losses) of $3.0 billion, from losses of $3.2 billion in 2009 to losses of $172 million in 2010 was primarily driven by a favorable change in freestanding derivatives of $4.4 billion, comprised of a
$4.5 billion favorable change from losses in the prior year of $4.3 billion to gains in the current year of $203 million and $123 million in ALICO freestanding derivative losses. This favorable variance was partially offset by an
unfavorable change in embedded derivatives primarily associated with variable annuity minimum benefit guarantees of $1.4 billion from gains in the prior year of $1.1 billion to losses in the current year of $257 million, net of
$5 million in ALICO embedded derivative gains.      We use freestanding interest rate, currency, credit and
equity derivatives to provide economic hedges of certain invested assets and insurance liabilities, including embedded derivatives within certain of our variable annuity minimum benefit guarantees. The $4.5 billion favorable variance in
freestanding derivatives was primarily attributable to market factors, including falling long-term and mid-term interest rates, a stronger recovery in equity markets in the prior year than the current year, a greater decrease in equity volatility in
the prior year as compared to the current year, a strengthening U.S. dollar and widening corporate credit spreads in the financial services sector. Falling long-term and mid-term interest rates in the current year compared to rising long-term
and mid-term interest rates in the prior year had a positive impact of $2.6 billion on our interest rate derivatives, $931 million of which is attributable to hedges of variable annuity minimum benefit guarantee liabilities, which are
accounted for as embedded derivatives. In addition, stronger equity market recovery and lower equity market volatility in the prior year as compared to the current year had a positive impact of $1.1 billion on our equity derivatives, which we
use to hedge variable annuity minimum benefit guarantees. U.S. dollar strengthening had a positive impact of $554 million on certain of our foreign currency derivatives, which are used to hedge foreign-denominated asset and liability
exposures. Finally, widening corporate credit spreads in the financial services sector had a positive impact of $221 million on our purchased protection credit derivatives.   
  Certain variable annuity products with minimum benefit guarantees contain embedded derivatives that are measured at
estimated fair value separately from the host variable annuity contract, with changes in estimated fair value reported in net derivative gains (losses). These embedded derivatives also include an adjustment for nonperformance risk of the related
liabilities carried at estimated fair value. The $1.4 billion unfavorable change in embedded derivatives was primarily attributable to the impact of market factors, including falling long-term and mid-term interest rates, changes in foreign
currency exchange rates, equity volatility and equity market movements. Falling long-term and mid-term interest rates in the current year compared to rising long-term and mid-term interest rates in the prior year had a negative impact of
$1.4 billion. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a negative impact of $468 million. Equity volatility decreased more in the prior year than in the current year causing a negative impact of $284 million, and a stronger
recovery in the equity markets in the prior year than in the current year had a negative impact of $228 million. The unfavorable impact from these hedged risks was partially offset by a favorable change related to the adjustment for
nonperformance risk of $1.2 billion, from losses of $1.3 billion in 2009 to losses of $62 million in 2010. This $62 million loss was net of a $621 million loss related to a refinement in estimating the spreads used in the
adjustment for nonperformance risk made in the second quarter of 2010. Gains on the freestanding derivatives that hedged these embedded derivative risks largely offset the change in liabilities attributable to market factors, excluding the
adjustment for nonperformance risk, which does not have an economic impact on the Company.   
         115

Table of Contents  

   Improved or stabilizing market conditions across several invested asset
classes and sectors as compared to the prior year resulted in decreases in impairments and in net realized losses from sales and disposals of investments in most components of our investment portfolio. These decreases, coupled with a decrease in the
provision for credit losses on mortgage loans due to improved market conditions, resulted in a $1.6 billion improvement in net investment gains (losses).      Income from continuing operations, net of income tax for 2010 includes $138 million of expenses related to the acquisition and integration of ALICO. These expenses, which primarily consisted of
investment banking and legal fees, are recorded in Corporate   Other and are not a component of operating earnings.      Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $1.2 billion, or 30% of income from continuing operations before provision for income tax, compared with income tax benefit of $2.0
billion, or 46% of the loss from continuing operations before benefit for income tax, for the comparable 2009 period. The Company s 2010 and 2009 effective tax rates differ from the U.S. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of
certain permanent tax differences, including non-taxable investment income and tax credits for investments in low income housing, in relation to income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax, as well as certain foreign permanent tax
differences.      As more fully described in the discussion of performance measures above, we use operating
earnings, which does not equate to income (loss) from continuing operations as determined in accordance with GAAP, to analyze our performance, evaluate segment performance, and allocate resources. Operating earnings is also a measure by which senior
management s and many other employees  performance is evaluated for the purpose of determining their compensation under applicable compensation plans. We believe that the presentation of operating earnings, as we measure it for management
purposes, enhances the understanding of our performance by highlighting the results of operations and the underlying profitability drivers of the business. Operating earnings should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP income (loss) from
continuing operations, net of income tax. Operating earnings available to common shareholders increased by $1.6 billion to $3.8 billion in 2010 from $2.2 billion in 2009.   
         116

Table of Contents  

     Reconciliation of income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, to
operating earnings available to common shareholders          Year Ended December 31, 2010     
   
      Year Ended December 31, 2009     
   
        (1) See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses for the components of such adjustments.   
         117

Table of Contents  

     Reconciliation of GAAP revenues to operating revenues and GAAP expenses to operating
expenses          Year Ended December 31, 2010     
   
      Year Ended December 31, 2009     

(1)  
    See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses for the components of such adjustments.      
         118

Table of Contents  

     Consolidated Results - Operating     
   
    Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.   
  The improvement in the financial markets was the primary driver of the increase in operating earnings as evidenced by
higher net investment income and an increase in average separate account balances, which resulted in an increase in policy fee income. Partially offsetting this improvement was an increase in amortization of DAC, VOBA and DSI. The increase in
operating earnings also includes the positive impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates in 2010. This improved reported operating earnings by $37 million for 2010 compared to 2009. Furthermore, the 2010 period also includes one month
of ALICO results, contributing $114 million to the increase in operating earnings. The current period also benefited from the dividend scale reduction in the fourth quarter of 2009. The improvement in 2010 results compared to 2009 was partially
offset by the prior period impact of pesification in Argentina and unfavorable claims experience.      Net
investment income increased from higher yields and growth in average invested assets. Yields were positively impacted by the effects of stabilizing real estate markets and recovering private equity markets year over year on real estate joint
ventures and other limited partnership interests, and by the effects of continued repositioning of the accumulated liquidity in our portfolio to longer duration and higher yielding investments, including investment grade corporate fixed maturity
securities. Growth in our investment portfolio was primarily due to the Acquisition and positive net cash flows from growth in our domestic individual and group life businesses, as well as certain international businesses, higher cash collateral
balances received from our derivative counterparties, as well as the temporary investment of proceeds from the debt and common stock issuances in anticipation of the Acquisition. With the exception of the cash flows from such securities issuances,
which were temporarily invested in lower yielding liquid investments, we continued to reposition the accumulated liquidity in our portfolio to longer duration and higher yielding investments.   
  Since many of our products are interest spread-based, higher net investment income is typically offset by higher interest
credited expense. However, interest credited expense, including amounts reflected in policyholder   
         119

Table of Contents  

benefits and claims, decreased primarily in our domestic funding agreement business, which experienced lower average crediting rates combined with lower average account balances. Our fixed
annuities business also experienced lower crediting rates. Certain crediting rates can move consistently with the underlying market indices, primarily the London Inter-Bank Offer Rate ( LIBOR ), which were lower than the prior year. The
impact from the growth in our structured settlement, LTC and disability businesses partially offset those decreases in interest credited expense.      A significant increase in average separate account balances is largely attributable to favorable market performance resulting from improved market conditions since the second quarter of 2009 and positive
net cash flows from the annuity business. This resulted in higher policy fees and other revenues of $444 million, most notably in our Retirement Products segment. In addition, changes in foreign currency exchange rates increased policy fees by
$52 million. The improvement in fees is partially offset by greater DAC, VOBA and DSI amortization of $325 million. Policy fees are typically calculated as a percentage of the average assets in the separate accounts. DAC, VOBA and DSI
amortization is based on the earnings of the business, which in the retirement business are derived, in part, from fees earned on separate account balances. A portion of the increase in amortization was due to the impact of higher current year gross
margins, a primary component in the determination of the amount of amortization for our Insurance Products segment, mostly in the closed block resulting from increased investment yields and the impact of dividend scale reductions.   
  The reduction in the dividend scale in the fourth quarter of 2009 resulted in a $109 million decrease in
policyholder dividends in the traditional life business in the current period.      Claims experience varied
amongst our businesses with a net unfavorable impact of $153 million to operating earnings compared to the prior year. We had unfavorable claims experience in our Auto   Home segment, primarily due to increased catastrophes. Our
Insurance Products segment experienced mixed claims experience with a net unfavorable impact. We experienced less favorable mortality experience in our Corporate Benefit Funding segment despite favorable experience in our structured settlements
business.      Interest expense increased $62 million primarily as a result of the full year impact of debt
issuances in 2009 and of senior notes and debt securities issued in anticipation of the Acquisition, partially offset by the impact of lower interest rates on variable rate collateral financing arrangements.   
  In addition to a $269 million increase associated with the Acquisition, operating expenses increased due to the
impact of a $95 million benefit recorded in the prior period related to the pesification in Argentina, as well as a $60 million increase related to the investment and growth in our international businesses. Changes in foreign currency
exchange rates also increased other expenses by $54 million. In addition, the current period includes a $14 million increase in charitable contributions and $13 million of costs associated with the integration of ALICO. Offsetting these
increases was a $76 million reduction in discretionary spending, such as consulting, rent and postemployment related costs. In addition, we experienced a $47 million decline in market driven expenses, primarily pension and post retirement
benefit costs. Also contributing to the decrease was a $35 million reduction in real estate-related charges and $15 million of lower legal costs.      The 2010 period includes $75 million of charges related to the Health Care Act. The Federal government currently provides a Medicare Part D subsidy. The Health Care Act reduced the tax
deductibility of retiree health care costs to the extent of any Medicare Part D subsidy received beginning in 2013. Because the deductibility of future retiree health care costs is reflected in our financial statements, the entire future impact
of this change in law was required to be recorded as a charge in the period in which the legislation was enacted. Changes to the provision for income taxes in both periods contributed to an increase in operating earnings of $86 million for our
Other International Regions segment, resulting from a $34 million unfavorable impact in 2009 due to a change in assumption regarding the repatriation of earnings and a benefit of $52 million in the current year from additional permanent
reinvestment of earnings, the reversal of tax provisions and favorable changes in liabilities for tax uncertainties. In addition, in 2009 we had a larger benefit of $82 million as compared to 2010 related to the utilization of tax preferenced
investments which provide tax credits and deductions.   
         120

Table of Contents  

     Insurance Products     
   
    Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.   
  The improvement in the global financial markets had a positive impact on net investment income, which contributed to the
increase in Insurance Products  operating earnings. In addition, we experienced overall modest revenue growth in several of our businesses despite this challenging environment. High levels of unemployment continue to depress growth across most
of our group insurance businesses due to lower covered payrolls. Growth in our group life business was dampened by a decline in our non-medical health and individual life businesses. However, our dental business benefited from higher enrollment and
pricing actions, partially offset by lower persistency and the loss of existing subscribers, driven by high unemployment. This business also experienced more stable utilization and benefits costs in the current year. The revenue growth from our
dental business was more than offset by a decline in revenues from our disability business, mainly due to net customer cancellations, changes in benefit levels and lower covered lives. Our long-term care revenues were flat year over year, concurrent
with the discontinuance of the sale of this coverage at the end of 2010. In our individual life business, the change in revenues was suppressed by the impact of a benefit recorded in the prior year related to the positive resolution of certain legal
matters. Excluding this impact, the traditional life business experienced 8% growth in our open block of business. The expected run-off of our closed block more than offset this growth.   
  The significant components of the $179 million increase in operating earnings were an improvement in net investment
income and the impact of a reduction in dividends to certain policyholders, coupled with lower expenses. These improvements were partially offset by an increase in DAC amortization, as well as net unfavorable claims experience across several of our
businesses.      Higher net investment income of $295 million was due to a $202 million increase from
growth in average invested assets and a $93 million increase from higher yields. Growth in the investment portfolio was attributed to an increase in net cash flows from the majority of our businesses. The increase in yields was largely due to
the positive effects of recovering private equity markets and stabilizing real estate markets on other limited partnership interests and real estate joint ventures. To manage the needs of our intermediate to longer-term liabilities, our portfolio
consists primarily of investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, structured finance securities (comprised of mortgage and asset-backed securities) and U.S. Treasury and agency securities and, to a lesser extent,
certain other invested asset classes, including other limited partnership interests, real estate joint ventures and other invested assets which provide additional diversification and opportunity for long-term yield enhancement.   
         121

Table of Contents  

   The increase in net investment income was partially offset by a
$36 million increase in interest credited on long duration contracts, which is reflected in the change in policyholder benefits and dividends, primarily due to growth in future policyholder benefits in our LTC and disability businesses.
     Other expenses decreased by $82 million, largely due to a decrease of $40 million from the impact
of market conditions on certain expenses, such as pension and post-retirement benefit costs. In addition, a decrease in information technology expenses of $29 million contributed to the improvement in operating earnings. A decrease in variable
expenses, such as commissions and premium taxes, further reduced expenses by $11 million, a portion of which is offset by DAC capitalization.      The reduction in the dividend scale in the fourth quarter of 2009 resulted in a $109 million decrease in policyholder dividends in the traditional life business in 2010.   
  Claims experience varied amongst Insurance Products  businesses with a net unfavorable impact of $42 million to
operating earnings. We experienced excellent mortality results in our group life business due to a decrease in severity, as well as favorable reserve refinements in 2010. In addition, an improvement in our LTC results was driven by favorable claim
experience mainly due to higher terminations and less claimants in 2010, coupled with the impact of unfavorable reserve refinements in 2009. Our improved dental results were driven by higher enrollment and pricing actions, as well as improved claim
experience in the current year. The impact of this positive experience was surpassed by solid, but less favorable mortality, in our individual life business combined with higher incidence and severity of group disability claims in the current year,
and the impact of a gain from the recapture of a reinsurance agreement in 2009.      Higher DAC amortization of
$157 million was primarily driven by the impact of higher gross margins, a primary component in the determination of the amount of amortization, mostly in the closed block resulting from increased investment yields and the impact of dividend
scale reductions. In addition, the net impact of various model refinements in both 2010 and 2009 increased DAC amortization.      Certain events reduced operating earnings, including the impact of a benefit being recorded in 2009 of $17 million related to the positive resolution of certain legal matters and an increase in
current income tax expense of $27 million, resulting from an increase in our effective tax rate.        Retirement
Products         
 
         122

Table of Contents  

   Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.
     During 2010, overall annuity sales decreased 5% compared to 2009 as declines in fixed annuity sales were
partially offset by increased sales of our variable annuity products. The financial market turmoil in early 2009 resulted in extraordinarily high sales of fixed annuity products in 2009. The high sales level was not expected to continue after the
financial markets returned to more stable levels. Variable annuity product sales increased primarily due to the expansion of alternative distribution channels and fewer competitors in the market place. Surrender rates for both our variable and fixed
annuities remained low during the current period as we believe our customers continue to value our products compared to other alternatives in the marketplace.      Interest rate and equity market changes were the primary driver of the $405 million increase in operating earnings, with the largest impact resulting from a $343 million increase in policy fees
and other revenues and, a $193 million increase in net investment income, offset by a $132 million increase in DAC, VOBA and DSI amortization and a $39 million increase in commission expense resulting from growth in annuity contract
balances.      A significant increase in average separate account balances was largely attributable to favorable
market performance resulting from improved market conditions since the second quarter of 2009 and positive net cash flows from the annuity business. This resulted in higher policy fees and other revenues of $343 million, partially offset by
greater DAC, VOBA and DSI amortization. Policy fees are typically calculated as a percentage of the average assets in the separate account. DAC, VOBA and DSI amortization is based on the earnings of the business, which in the retirement business are
derived, in part, from fees earned on separate account balances.      Financial market improvements also resulted
in the increase in net investment income of $193 million as a $291 million increase from higher yields was partially offset by a $98 million decrease from a decline in average invested assets. Yields were positively impacted by the
effects of the continued repositioning of the accumulated liquidity in our investment portfolio to longer duration and higher yielding assets, including investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities. Yields were also positively impacted by
the effects of recovering private equity markets and stabilizing real estate markets on other limited partnership interests and real estate joint ventures. Despite positive net cash flows, a reduction in the general account investment portfolio was
due to the impact of more customers gaining confidence in the equity markets and, as a result, electing to transfer funds into our separate account investment options as market conditions improved. To manage the needs of our intermediate to
longer-term liabilities, our investment portfolio consists primarily of investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities, structured finance securities, mortgage loans and U.S. Treasury and agency securities and, to a lesser extent, certain
other invested asset classes, including other limited partnership interests, real estate joint ventures and other invested assets, in order to provide additional diversification and opportunity for long-term yield enhancement.   
  Annuity guaranteed benefit liabilities, net of a decrease in paid claims, increased benefits by $13 million
primarily from our annual unlocking of assumptions related to these liabilities.      Interest credited expense
decreased $49 million driven by lower average crediting rates on fixed annuities and higher amortization of excess interest reserve due to one large case surrender in 2010, partially offset by growth in our fixed annuity PABs.   
         123

Table of Contents  

     Corporate Benefit Funding     
   
    Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.   
  Corporate Benefit Funding benefited in 2010 from strong sales of structured settlement products and continued market
penetration of our pension closeout business in the U.K. However, structured settlement premiums have declined $174 million, before income tax, from 2009 reflecting extraordinary sales in the fourth quarter of 2009. While market penetration
continued in our pension closeout business in the U.K. as the number of sold cases increased, the average premium has declined, resulting in a decrease in premiums of $216 million, before income tax. Although improving, a combination of poor
equity returns and lower interest rates have contributed to pension plans remaining underfunded, both in the U.S. and in the U.K., which reduces our customers  flexibility to engage in transactions such as pension closeouts. For each of
these businesses, the movement in premiums is almost entirely offset by the related change in policyholder benefits. The insurance liability that is established at the time we assume the risk under these contracts is typically equivalent to the
premium recognized.      The $340 million increase in operating earnings was primarily driven by an
improvement in net investment income and the impact of lower crediting rates, partially offset by the impact of prior period favorable liability refinements and less favorable mortality.   
  The primary driver of the $340 million increase in operating earnings was higher net investment income of
$278 million, reflecting a $187 million increase from higher yields and a $91 million increase in average invested assets. Yields were positively impacted by the effects of stabilizing real estate markets and recovering private equity
markets on real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests. These improvements in yields were partially offset by decreased yields on fixed maturity securities due to the reinvestment of proceeds from maturities and sales during
this lower interest rate environment. Growth in the investment portfolio is due to an increase in average PABs and growth in the securities lending program. To manage the needs of our longer-term liabilities, our portfolio consists primarily of
investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities, structured finance securities, mortgage loans and U.S. Treasury and agency securities, and, to a lesser extent, certain other invested asset classes including other limited partnership
interests, real estate joint ventures and other invested assets in order to provide additional diversification and opportunity for long-term yield enhancement. For our short-term obligations, we invest primarily in structured finance securities,
mortgage loans and investment grade   
         124

Table of Contents  

corporate fixed maturity securities. The yields on these short-term investments have moved consistently with the underlying market indices, primarily LIBOR and U.S. Treasury, on which they
are based.      As many of our products are interest spread-based, changes in net investment income are typically
offset by a corresponding change in interest credited expense. However, interest credited expense decreased $122 million, primarily related to our funding agreement business as a result of lower average crediting rates combined with lower
average account balances. Certain crediting rates can move consistently with the underlying market indices, primarily LIBOR, which were lower than the prior year. Interest credited expense related to the structured settlement businesses increased
$40 million as a result of the increase in the average policyholder liabilities.      Mortality experience
was mixed and reduced operating earnings in 2010 by $26 million. Less favorable mortality in our pension closeouts and corporate owned life insurance businesses compared to 2009 was only slightly offset by favorable mortality experience in our
structured settlements business.      Liability refinements in both 2010 and 2009 resulted in a $28 million
decrease to operating earnings. These were largely offset by the impact of a charge in the 2009 period related to a refinement of a reinsurance recoverable in the small business recordkeeping business which increased operating earnings by
$20 million.        Auto   Home     
   
    Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.   
  The improving housing and automobile markets have provided opportunities that led to increased new business sales for
both homeowners and auto policies in 2010. Sales of new policies increased 11% for our homeowners business and 4% for our auto business in 2010 compared to 2009. Average premium per policy also improved in 2010 over 2009 in our homeowners businesses
but remained flat in our auto business.      The primary driver of the $22 million decrease in operating
earnings was unfavorable claims experience, partially offset by higher net investment income and increased premiums.      Catastrophe-related losses increased by $58 million compared to 2009 due to increases in both the number and severity of storms. The 2010 claim costs decreased $19 million as a result of lower
frequencies in both our auto and homeowners businesses; however, this was partially offset by a $13 million increase in claims due to higher severity in our homeowners business. Also contributing to the decline in operating earnings was an
increase of $7 million in loss adjusting expenses, primarily related to a decrease in our unallocated loss adjusting expense liabilities at the end of 2009.   
         125

Table of Contents  

   The impact of the items discussed above can be seen in the unfavorable
change in the combined ratio, including catastrophes, increasing to 94.6% in 2010 from 92.3% in 2009 and the favorable change in the combined ratio, excluding catastrophes, decreasing to 88.1% in 2010 from 88.9% in 2009.   
  A $19 million increase in net investment income partially offset the declines in operating earnings discussed above.
Net investment income was higher primarily as a result of an increase in average invested assets, including changes in allocated equity, partially offset by a decrease in yields. This portfolio is comprised primarily of high quality municipal bonds.
     The increase in average premium per policy in our homeowners businesses improved operating earnings by
$10 million as did an increase in exposures which improved operating earnings by $1 million. Exposures are primarily each automobile for the auto line of business and each residence for the property line of business. Also improving
operating earnings, through an increase in premiums, was a $5 million reduction in reinsurance costs.   
  The slight increase in other expenses was more than offset by an $8 million increase in DAC capitalization,
resulting primarily from increased premiums written.      In addition, a first quarter 2010 write-off of an equity
interest in a mandatory state underwriting pool required by a change in legislation and a decrease in income from a retroactive reinsurance agreement in run-off, both of which were recorded in other revenues, drove a $7 million decrease in
operating earnings. Auto   Home also benefited from a lower effective tax rate which improved operating earnings by $8 million primarily as a result of tax free interest income representing a larger portion of pre-tax income.
       Japan         
    Our Japan operation is comprised of the Japan business acquired in the Acquisition and is
among the largest foreign life insurers in Japan. Through our Japan operation we provide life insurance, accident and health insurance, annuities and endowment products to both individuals and groups. Reported operating earnings reflect the
operating results of ALICO from the Acquisition Date through November 30, 2010, ALICO s fiscal year-end. Therefore, Japan s operating earnings for 2010 include one month of results from ALICO operations.   
         126

Table of Contents  

     Other International Regions     
   
    Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.   
  The improvement in the global financial markets has resulted in continued growth, with an increase in sales in the
current period compared to the prior period excluding the results of our Japan joint venture. Retirement and savings sales increased driven by strong annuity, universal life and pension sales in Europe, Mexico, Chile, Korea and China. In our Europe
and the Middle East operations, sales of annuities and universal life products remained strong, more than doubling from the prior year, partially offset by lower pension and variable universal life sales in India due to the loss of a major
distributor, as well as lower credit life sales. Our Latin America operation experienced an overall increase in sales resulting from solid growth in pension and universal life sales in Mexico and an increase in fixed annuity sales in Chile due to
market recovery, slightly offset by lower bank sales in Brazil resulting from incentives offered in the prior year. Sales in our Asia Pacific operation, excluding the results of our Japan joint venture, increased primarily due to higher variable
universal life sales in Korea, slightly offset by the decline in annuity sales and strong bank channel sales in China.      Reported operating earnings increased by $235 million over the prior year. The positive impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates improved reported earnings by $37 million for 2010
compared to 2009. Reported operating earnings reflect the operating results of ALICO operations other than Japan from the Acquisition Date through November 30, 2010, which contributed $20 million to our 2010 operating earnings. As
previously noted, ALICO s fiscal year-end is November 30; therefore, our results for the year include one month of results from ALICO operations other than Japan.   
  Changes in assumptions for measuring the impact of inflation on certain inflation-indexed fixed maturity securities
increased operating earnings. Changes to the provision for income taxes in both periods contributed to an increase in operating earnings, resulting from an unfavorable impact in 2009 from a change in assumption regarding the repatriation of earnings
and a benefit in the current year from additional permanent reinvestment of earnings, the reversal of tax provisions and favorable changes in liabilities for tax uncertainties. Business growth in our Latin America operation contributed to an
increase in operating earnings. Operating earnings in Mexico increased due to growth in our institutional and individual businesses, partially offset by the impact of   
         127

Table of Contents  

unfavorable claims experience. Higher investment yields resulting from portfolio restructuring was the primary driver in Argentina contributing to an improvement in operating earnings.
India s results benefited primarily due to lower expenses resulting from the loss of a major distributor and slower growth resulting from market conditions.   
  Partially offsetting these increases is the impact of pesification in Argentina, which favorably impacted 2009 reported
earnings by $95 million. This prior period benefit was due to a liability release resulting from a reassessment of our approach in managing existing and potential future claims related to certain social security pension annuity contractholders in
Argentina. In addition, operating earnings in Australia were lower, which was primarily due to a write-off of DAC attributable to a change in a product feature in the current period.   
  Net investment income increased from growth in average invested assets and improved yields. Growth in average invested
assets reflects growth in our businesses. Improved yields reflects the impact of increased inflation, primarily in Chile, as well as the impact of changes in assumptions for measuring the effects of inflation on certain inflation-indexed fixed
maturity securities. The increase in net investment income from higher inflation was offset by an increase in the related insurance liabilities due to higher inflation. Although diversification into higher yielding investments had a positive impact
on yields, this was partially offset by decreased trading and other securities results driven by a stronger recovery in equity markets in 2009 compared to 2010, primarily in Hong Kong, and by a decrease in the results of our operating joint
ventures. The reduction in net investment income from our trading portfolio is entirely offset by a corresponding decrease in the interest credited on the related contractholder account balances and therefore had no impact on operating earnings.
     In addition to an increase associated with the Acquisition, operating expenses increased due to the impact of
the pesification in Argentina noted above, as well as current period business growth in Korea, Brazil and Mexico, which resulted in increased commissions and compensation. These increases were partially offset by lower commissions and business
expenses in India.        Corporate   Other         

    Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.   
  MetLife, Inc. completed four debt financings in August 2010 in anticipation of the Acquisition, issuing $1.0 billion
of 2.375% senior notes, $1.0 billion of 4.75% senior notes, $750 million of 5.875% senior notes, and   
         128

Table of Contents  

$250 million of floating rate senior notes. MetLife, Inc. also issued debt securities, which are part of the $3.0 billion stated value of common equity units. The proceeds from these
debt issuances were used to finance the Acquisition. MetLife, Inc. completed three debt issuances in 2009 in response to the economic crisis, issuing $397 million of floating rate senior notes in March 2009, $1.3 billion of senior notes in
May 2009, and $500 million of junior subordinated debt securities in July 2009. The proceeds from these debt issuances were used for general corporate purposes.   
  Operating earnings available to common shareholders and operating earnings, which excludes preferred stock dividends,
each increased $370 million, primarily due to an increase in net investment income and a reduction in operating expenses, partially offset by a decrease in tax benefit and an increase in interest expense resulting from the debt issuances noted
above.      Net investment income increased $372 million reflecting an increase of $242 million due to
higher yields and an increase of $130 million from growth in average invested assets. Yields were positively impacted by the effects of recovering private equity markets and stabilizing real estate markets on other limited partnership interests
and real estate joint ventures. This was partially offset by lower fixed maturities and mortgage loan yields which were adversely impacted by the reinvestment of proceeds from maturities and sales during this lower interest rate environment and from
decreased trading and other securities results due to a stronger recovery in equity markets in 2009 as compared to 2010. In addition, due to the lower interest rate environment in the current year, less net investment income was credited to the
segments in 2010 compared to 2009. Growth in average invested assets was primarily due to higher cash collateral balances received from our derivative counterparties and the temporary investment of the proceeds from the debt and common stock
issuances in anticipation of the Acquisition. Our investments primarily include structured finance securities, investment grade corporate fixed maturities, mortgage loans and U.S. Treasury and agency securities. In addition, our investment
portfolio includes the excess capital not allocated to the segments. Accordingly, it includes a higher allocation of certain other invested asset classes to provide additional diversification and opportunity for long-term yield enhancement,
including leveraged leases, other limited partnership interests, real estate, real estate joint ventures, trading securities and equity securities.      Corporate   Other benefited in 2010 from a $76 million reduction in discretionary spending, such as consulting and postemployment related costs, a $35 million decrease in real
estate-related charges and $15 million of lower legal costs. These savings were partially offset by a $14 million increase in charitable contributions. The current year also included $44 million of internal resource costs for
associates committed to the Acquisition. Additionally, the resolutions of certain legal matters increased operating earnings by $35 million.      Positive results from our mortgage loan servicing business were driven by a $32 million improvement in hedging results. A larger portfolio resulted in higher servicing fees of $18 million. This was
partially offset by $10 million of additional expenses incurred in response to both the larger portfolio and increased regulatory oversight.      Interest expense increased $64 million primarily as a result of the debt issuances in 2009 and the senior notes and debt securities issued in anticipation of the Acquisition, partially offset by the
impact of lower interest rates on variable rate collateral financing arrangements.      The 2010 period includes
$75 million of charges related to the Health Care Act. The Federal government currently provides a Medicare Part D subsidy. The Health Care Act reduced the tax deductibility of retiree health care costs to the extent of any Medicare
Part D subsidy received beginning in 2013. Because the deductibility of future retiree health care costs is reflected in our financial statements, the entire future impact of this change in law was required to be recorded as a charge in the
period in which the legislation was enacted. As a result, we incurred a $75 million charge in the first quarter of 2010. The Health Care Act also amended Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m) as a result of which MetLife was initially
considered a healthcare provider, as defined, and would be subject to limits on tax deductibility of certain types of compensation. In December 2010, the Internal   
         129

Table of Contents  

Revenue Service issued Notice 2011-2 which clarified that the executive compensation deduction limitation included in the Health Care Act did not apply to insurers like MetLife selling de minimis
amounts of health care coverage. As a result, in the fourth quarter of 2010, we reversed $18 million of previously recorded taxes for 2010. In 2009, Corporate   Other received a larger benefit of $49 million as compared to 2010
related to the utilization of tax preferenced investments which provide tax credits and deductions.       Effects of Inflation
      Management believes that inflation has not had a material effect on its consolidated results of
operations, except insofar as inflation may affect interest rates.      An increase in inflation could affect our
business in several ways. During inflationary periods, the value of fixed income investments falls which could increase realized and unrealized losses. Inflation also increases expenses for labor and other materials, potentially putting pressure on
profitability if such costs cannot be passed through in our product prices. Inflation could also lead to increased costs for losses and loss adjustment expenses in certain of our businesses, which could require us to adjust our pricing to reflect
our expectations for future inflation. Prolonged and elevated inflation could adversely affect the financial markets and the economy generally, and dispelling it may require governments to pursue a restrictive fiscal and monetary policy, which could
constrain overall economic activity, inhibit revenue growth and reduce the number of attractive investment opportunities.   
   Investments         Investment Risks        The Company s primary
investment objective is to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. The Company is exposed to four primary
sources of investment risk:       

credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest;

interest rate risk, relating to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in market interest rates;

liquidity risk, relating to the diminished ability to sell certain investments in times of strained market conditions; and

market valuation risk, relating to the variability in the estimated fair value of investments associated with changes in market factors such as
credit spreads.         The Company manages risk through in-house fundamental analysis of the
underlying obligors, issuers, transaction structures and real estate properties. The Company also manages credit risk, market valuation risk and liquidity risk through industry and issuer diversification and asset allocation. For real estate and
agricultural assets, the Company manages credit risk and market valuation risk through geographic, property type and product type diversification and asset allocation. The Company manages interest rate risk as part of its asset and liability
management strategies; through product design, such as the use of market value adjustment features and surrender charges; and through proactive monitoring and management of certain non-guaranteed elements of its products, such as the resetting of
credited interest and dividend rates for policies that permit such adjustments. The Company also uses certain derivative instruments in the management of credit, interest rate, currency and equity market risks.   
  Purchased credit default swaps are utilized by the Company to mitigate credit risk in its investment portfolio.
Generally, the Company purchases credit protection by entering into credit default swaps referencing the issuers of specific assets owned by the Company. In certain cases, basis risk exists between these credit default swaps
  
         130

Table of Contents  

and the specific assets owned by the Company. For example, the Company may purchase credit protection on a macro basis to reduce exposure to specific industries or other portfolio concentrations.
In such instances, the referenced entities and obligations under the credit default swaps may not be identical to the individual obligors or securities in the Company s investment portfolio. In addition, the Company s purchased credit
default swaps may have shorter tenors than the underlying investments they are hedging. However, the Company dynamically hedges this risk through the rebalancing and rollover of its credit default swaps at their most liquid tenors. The Company
believes that its purchased credit default swaps serve as effective legal and economic hedges of its credit exposure.      The Company generally enters into market standard purchased and written credit default swap contracts. Payout under such contracts is triggered by certain credit events experienced by the referenced
entities. For credit default swaps covering North American corporate issuers, credit events typically include bankruptcy and failure to pay on borrowed money. For European corporate issuers, credit events typically also include involuntary
restructuring. With respect to credit default contracts on Western European sovereign debt, credit events typically include failure to pay debt obligations, repudiation, moratorium, or involuntary restructuring. In each case, payout on a credit
default swap is triggered only after the Credit Derivatives Determinations Committee of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association deems that a credit event has occurred.   
    Current Environment        The global economy and markets are still affected by a period of significant stress that began in the second half of 2007. This disruption adversely affected the financial services sector in particular
and global capital markets. The Federal Reserve Board has taken a number of actions in recent years to spur economic activity by keeping interest rates low and may take further actions to influence interest rates in the future, which may have an
impact on the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments. See  Risk Factors   Governmental and Regulatory Actions for the Purpose of Stabilizing and Revitalizing the Financial Markets and Protecting Investors and Consumers May Not
Achieve the Intended Effect or Could Adversely Affect Our Competitive Position.       Beginning in 2010 and
continuing throughout 2011, concerns increased about capital markets and the solvency of certain European Union member states, including Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain, and of financial institutions that have significant direct or
indirect exposure to their sovereign debt. This, in turn, increased market volatility that will continue to affect the performance of various asset classes in 2012, and perhaps longer, until there is an ultimate resolution of these European Union
sovereign debt-related concerns.      As a result of concerns about the ability of Portugal, Ireland, Italy,
Greece and Spain, commonly referred to as  Europe s perimeter region,  to service their sovereign debt, these countries have experienced credit ratings downgrades, including the downgrade of Greece s sovereign debt in July 2011
by Moody s Investors Service, Inc. ( Moody s ) and S P to Ca and CC ratings, respectively   rating designations of likely in, or very near, default, following the announcement of the debt exchange proposal
summarized below. In February 2012, S P further downgraded Greece, as described below. Despite support programs for Europe s perimeter region, concerns about the ability to service sovereign debt subsequently expanded to other European
Union member states. As a result, in late 2011 and early 2012, several other European Union member states have experienced credit ratings downgrades or have had their credit ratings outlook changed to negative. As summarized below, at
December 31, 2011, the Company did not have significant exposure to the sovereign debt of Europe s perimeter region. Accordingly, we do not expect such investments to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial
condition. Outside of Europe s perimeter region, the Company s sovereign debt, corporate debt and perpetual hybrid securities in Europe were concentrated in the United Kingdom, Germany, France, the Netherlands and Poland, which are
higher-rated countries within the European Union, as well in Switzerland and Norway, which are two higher-rated non-European Union countries.       Greece Support Program.   In July 2011, a public sector support program for Greece of  109 billion was announced, as well as a separate, voluntary debt exchange proposal for
private sector holders of Greece sovereign debt (known as Private Sector Involvement, or  PSI ). Private investors that voluntarily participate in the initially proposed July PSI proposal, which was expected to apply to Greece s
sovereign debt maturing   
         131

Table of Contents  

through 2019, were expected to incur losses on a net present value basis of approximately 20% on such securities. In October 2011, a revision of the July PSI proposal was announced which included
a voluntary 50% nominal discount on all maturities of Greece sovereign debt held by the private sector. In addition to this, the public sector Greece financing package was revised to  100 billion plus a contribution of  30 billion from
Greece s public sector creditors to provide collateral enhancements on the exchanged Greece sovereign bonds under the October PSI proposal. On February 21, 2012, the Euro Group, which is comprised of the finance ministers of the member states
of the European Union, representatives of the European Commission and the European Central Bank, announced a  130 billion support program that contains a PSI proposal for a voluntary 53.5% nominal discount on all maturities of Greece sovereign
debt held by the private sector. On February 23, 2012, Greece s Parliament retroactively inserted collective action clauses in the documentation of certain series of its sovereign debt, which has the effect of binding all private sector
investors to accept the terms of a debt exchange, if a quorum of private sector investors accepts the debt exchange proposal. Greece launched a sovereign debt exchange offer on February 24, 2012. On February 27, 2012, as a result of the
retroactive insertion of such collective action clauses, S P downgraded Greece s credit rating to SD, a rating of selective default. If the Greece sovereign debt exchange offer is consummated, S P has stated it will likely consider the
selective default to have been cured and would likely raise the sovereign credit rating on Greece.   
   Europe s Perimeter Region Sovereign Debt Securities.   Our holdings of Greece sovereign debt were
acquired in the Acquisition and our amortized cost basis reflects recording such securities at estimated fair value on November 1, 2010, which was substantially below par, partially mitigating our impairment exposure. During the year ended
December 31, 2011, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $405 million on our holdings of Greece s sovereign debt. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2011, we sold a significant portion of our Europe s
perimeter region sovereign debt, thereby substantially reducing our exposure. The par value, amortized cost and estimated fair value of holdings in sovereign debt of Europe s perimeter region were $874 million, $254 million and
$264 million at December 31, 2011, respectively, and $1.9 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.6 billion at December 31, 2010, respectively.       Select European Countries   Investment Exposures.  Due to the current level of economic, fiscal and political strain in Europe s perimeter region and Cyprus, the Company continually
monitors and adjusts its level of investment exposure in these countries. We manage direct and indirect investment exposure in these countries through fundamental credit analysis. The following table presents a summary of investments by invested
asset class and related purchased credit default protection across Europe s perimeter region, by country, and Cyprus.       

(1)  
    Information is presented on a country of risk basis (e.g. the country where the issuer primarily conducts business).      

(2)  
    The Company has not written any credit default swaps with an underlying risk related to any of these six countries.      
     
         132

Table of Contents  

(3)  
    Presented at estimated fair value. The par value and amortized cost of the fixed maturity securities were $3.9 billion and $3.4 billion,
respectively, at December 31, 2011.          

(4)  
    Comprised of equity securities, FVO general account securities, real estate and real estate joint ventures, other limited partnership interests,
cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, and other invested assets at carrying value. See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for an explanation of the carrying value for these invested asset classes.

(5)  
    Excludes FVO contractholder-directed unit-linked investments of $667 million, which support unit-linked variable annuity type liabilities and do not
qualify for separate account summary total assets and liabilities. The contractholder, and not the Company, directs the investment of these funds. The related variable annuity type liability is satisfied from the contractholder s account
balance and not from the general account investments of the Company.          

(6)  
    There were no unfunded commitments related to these investments as of December 31, 2011.      

(7)  
    Purchased credit default protection is stated at the estimated fair value of the swap. For Portugal, the purchased credit default protection relates
to sovereign securities and this swap had a notional amount of $100 million and an estimated fair value of $31 million as of December 31, 2011. For Italy, the purchased credit default protection relates to financial services corporate securities and
these swaps had a notional amount of $80 million and an estimated fair value of $11 million at December 31, 2011. The counterparties to these swaps are financial institutions with S P credit ratings ranging from A+ to A- as of December 31, 2011.
         European Region Investments.   The Company has investments across certain
European Union member states and other countries in the region that are not members of the European Union (collectively, the  European Region ). In the European Region, we have proactively mitigated risk in both direct and indirect
exposures by investing in a diversified portfolio of high quality investments with a focus on the higher-rated countries, reducing our holdings through sales of financial services securities during 2010 and 2011 and sales of Europe s perimeter
region sovereign debt in 2011, and by purchasing certain single name credit default protection in 2010 and 2011. Our sales of financial services securities were focused on institutions with exposure to Europe s perimeter region, lower
preference capital structure instruments, and larger positions. Sovereign debt issued by countries outside of Europe s perimeter region comprised $8.4 billion, or 97% of European Region sovereign fixed maturity securities, at estimated fair
value at December 31, 2011. The European Region corporate securities (fixed maturity and perpetual hybrid securities classified as non-redeemable preferred stock) are invested in a diversified portfolio of primarily non-financial services
securities, which comprised $25.8 billion, or 77% of European Region total corporate securities, at estimated fair value at December 31, 2011. Of these European Region sovereign fixed maturity and corporate securities, 92% were investment grade
and, for the 8% that were below investment grade, the majority were non-financial services corporate securities at December 31, 2011. European Region financial services corporate securities at estimated fair value were $7.6 billion, including
$5.9 billion within the banking sector, with 94% invested in investment grade rated corporate securities, at December 31, 2011.       Rating Actions   U.S. Treasury Securities.  In August 2011, S P downgraded the AAA rating on U.S. Treasury securities to AA+ with a negative outlook, while Moody s affirmed the
Aaa rating on U.S. Treasury securities, but with a negative outlook. Fitch affirmed its AAA rating on U.S. Treasury securities and kept its outlook stable. In October 2011, Moody s affirmed its August 2011 ratings but revised its
negative outlook to stable. In November 2011, Fitch affirmed its AAA rating on U.S. Treasury securities but changed its U.S. credit rating outlook to negative from stable, citing the failure of a special Congressional committee to agree on certain
deficit-reduction measures. We continue to closely evaluate the implications on our investment portfolio of further rating agency downgrades of U.S. Treasury securities and believe our investment portfolio is well positioned. In light of the related
market uncertainty, we increased our liquidity position in July 2011. With the raising of the statutory debt ceiling in August 2011, we have subsequently redeployed and reduced some of   
         133

Table of Contents  

this increased liquidity position into higher yielding investments according to our ALM discipline. Despite the downgrade by S P, yields on U.S. Treasury securities have decreased since
these actions, causing an increase in the unrealized gain position on our holdings of U.S. Treasury and agency securities. The S P downgrade initially had an adverse effect on financial markets but the extent of the longer-term impact
cannot be predicted. See  Risk Factors   Concerns Over U.S. Fiscal Policy and the Trajectory of the National Debt of the U.S., as well as Rating Agency Downgrades of U.S. Treasury Securities Could Have an Adverse Effect on
Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations.        Japan Investments.   The
Japanese economy, to which we face substantial exposure given our operations there, was significantly negatively impacted by the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami. Although we expect modest growth in the Japanese economy during 2012, disruptions to
the Japanese economy are having, and will continue to have, negative impacts on the overall global economy, not all of which can be foreseen. The Company s investment in fixed maturity and equity securities in Japan were $28.4 billion, of which
$21.0 billion, or 74%, were Japan government and agency fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2011.   
   Summary.   All of these factors have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on the financial
results of companies in the financial services industry, including MetLife. Such global economic conditions, as well as the global financial markets, continue to impact our net investment income, our net investment gains (losses) and net derivative
gains (losses), level of unrealized gains and (losses) within the various asset classes within our investment portfolio and our allocation to lower yielding cash equivalents and short-term investments. See    Industry Trends  and
 Risk Factors   Difficult Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy Generally May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations and These Conditions May Not Improve in the Near Future.    
         134

Table of Contents  

    Composition of Investment Portfolio and Investment Portfolio Results    
  The following yield table presents the investment income, investment portfolio gains (losses), annualized yields on
average ending assets and ending carrying value for each of the asset classes within the investment portfolio, as well as investment income and investment portfolio gains (losses) for the investment portfolio as a whole. The yield table also
presents gains (losses) on derivative instruments which are used to manage risk for certain invested assets and certain insurance liabilities:       
 
         135

Table of Contents  

As described in the footnotes below, the yield table reflects certain differences from the presentation of
invested assets, net investment income, net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses) as presented in the consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of operations. This yield table presentation is consistent with how
we measure our investment performance for management purposes, and we believe it enhances understanding of our investment portfolio results.       

(1)  
    Yields are calculated as investment income as a percent of average quarterly asset carrying values. Investment income excludes recognized gains and
losses and reflects the operating revenue adjustments related to net investment income. Asset carrying values exclude unrealized investment gains (losses), collateral received from counterparties associated with our securities lending program,
freestanding derivative assets, collateral received from derivative counterparties, the effects of consolidating under GAAP certain VIEs that are treated as consolidated securitization entities ( CSEs ), contractholder-directed unit-linked
investments and securitized reverse residential mortgage loans. A yield is not presented for other invested assets, as it is not considered a meaningful measure of performance for this asset class.      

(3)  
    As described in footnote (1) above, ending carrying values exclude contractholder-directed unit-linked investments   reported
within trading and other securities, securities held by CSEs   reported within trading and other securities, and securitized reverse residential mortgage loans  reported within mortgage loans. The related adjustments to ending
carrying value, investment income and investment gains (losses) by invested asset class are presented below. The adjustments to investment income, net investment income and investment gains (losses) in the aggregate are as shown in footnote
(6) to this yield table. The adjustment to investment gains (losses) presented below and in footnote (6) to this yield table includes the effects of remeasuring both the invested assets and long-term debt in accordance with the FVO.

(4)  
    Investment income from fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans includes prepayment fees.      

(5)  
    For further information on Divested Businesses, see Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Prior period yields have been
recast to conform to the current period presentation to exclude      
         136

Table of Contents  

from asset carrying values freestanding derivatives and collateral received from derivative counterparties. Net investment income, investment portfolio gains (losses), and derivative gains
(losses) are presented including and excluding the impact of Divested Businesses. Yields are calculated including the net investment income and ending carrying values of the Divested Businesses.      

(6)  
    Net investment income, investment portfolio gains (losses) and derivative gains (losses) presented in this yield table vary from the most directly
comparable measures presented in the GAAP consolidated statements of operations due to certain reclassifications affecting net investment income, net investment gains (losses), net derivative gains (losses), interest credited to policyholder account
balances, and other revenues, and excludes the effects of consolidating under GAAP certain VIEs that are treated as CSEs. Such reclassifications are presented in the tables below.      

Years Ended December 31,   

2011   

2010   

2009   

(In millions)   

Net investment income   in the above yield table   
     
  $  
  20,011  

$  
  17,229  

$  
  15,007  

Real estate discontinued operations   deduct from net investment income   

(4  
  )   

(2  
  )   

(22  
  )    
 
    Scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting  deduct from net investment
income, add to net derivative gains (losses)   

(249  
  )   

(208  
  )   

(88  
  )    
 
    Equity method operating joint ventures   add to net investment income, deduct from net derivative gains
(losses)   

(23  
  )   

(130  
  )   

(156  
  )    
 
    Net investment income on contractholder-directed unit-linked investments   reported within trading and other securities
  add to net investment income   

(453  
  )   

211  

Incremental net investment income from CSEs   add to net investment income   

324  

411  

Net investment income   GAAP consolidated statements of operations   
     
  $  
  19,606  

$  
  17,511  

$  
  14,741  

Investment portfolio gains (losses)   in the above yield table   
     
  $  
  (553  
  )   
     
  $  
  (193  
  )   
     
  $  
  (3,037  
  )    
 
    Real estate discontinued operations   deduct from net investment gains (losses)   

(96  
  )   

(14  
  )   

(8  
  )    
 
    Investment gains (losses) related to CSEs   add to net investment gains (losses)   

5  

6  

Other gains (losses)   add to net investment gains (losses)   

(223  
  )   

(207  
  )   

144  

Net investment gains (losses)   GAAP consolidated statements of operations   
     
  $  
  (867  
  )   
     
  $  
  (408  
  )   
     
  $  
  (2,901  
  )    

Derivative gains (losses)   in the above yield table   
     
  $  
  4,545  

$  
  (614  
  )   
     
  $  
  (5,106  
  )    
 
    Scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting  add to net derivative gains
(losses), deduct from net investment income   

249  

208  

88  

Scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting   add to net derivative gains
(losses), deduct from interest credited to PABs   

19  

11  

(4  
  )    
 
    Settlement of foreign currency earnings hedges   add to net derivative gains (losses), deduct from other
revenues   

(12  
  )   

Equity method operating joint ventures  add to net investment income, deduct from net derivative gains
(losses)   

23  

130  

156  

Net derivative gains (losses)   GAAP consolidated statements of operations   
     
  $  
  4,824  

$  
  (265  
  )   
     
  $  
  (4,866  
  )    

See    Results of Operations   Year Ended December 31, 2011
Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2010  and    Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2009,  for analyses of the year over year changes in net investment income, net
investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses).        Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available-for-Sale
       Fixed maturity securities, which consisted principally of publicly-traded and privately placed fixed
maturity securities, were $350.3 billion and $324.8 billion at estimated fair value, or 67% and 69% of total cash and invested assets, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Publicly-traded fixed maturity securities represented
$303.6 billion and $284.0 billion of total fixed maturity securities at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, or 87% of total fixed maturity securities at estimated fair value, at both December 31,
2011 and   
         137

Table of Contents  

2010. Privately placed fixed maturity securities represented $46.7 billion and $40.8 billion at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2011 and 2010 respectively, or 13% of total
fixed maturity securities at estimated fair value, at both December 31, 2011 and 2010.      Equity
securities, which consisted principally of publicly-traded and privately-held common and preferred stocks, including certain perpetual hybrid securities and mutual fund interests, were $3.0 billion and $3.6 billion at estimated fair value,
or 0.6% and 0.8% of total cash and invested assets, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Publicly-traded equity securities represented $1.7 billion and $2.3 billion at estimated fair value, or 57% and 64% of total equity
securities, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Privately-held equity securities represented $1.3 billion of total equity securities at estimated fair value, at both December 31, 2011 and 2010, or 43% and 36% of total equity
securities at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.      Upon acquisition, the
Company classifies perpetual securities that have attributes of both debt and equity as fixed maturity securities if the securities have an interest rate step-up feature which, when combined with other qualitative factors, indicates that the
securities have more debt-like characteristics; while those with more equity-like characteristics are classified as equity securities within non-redeemable preferred stock. Many of such securities, commonly referred to as  perpetual hybrid
securities,  have been issued by non-U.S. financial institutions that are accorded the highest two capital treatment categories by their respective regulatory bodies (i.e. core capital, or  Tier 1 capital  and perpetual deferrable
securities, or  Upper Tier 2 capital ). The following table presents the amount and classification of perpetual hybrid securities held by the Company at:       

December 31,   

2011   

2010   

Classification    
     
   Estimated     Fair   
  Value   

Estimated Fair     Value  

Consolidated Balance Sheets    
     
     Sector Table    
     
     Primary Issuers    

(In millions)   

Fixed maturity securities   
     
  Foreign corporate securities  
     
  Non-U.S. financial institutions  
     
  $  
  523  

$  
  2,008  

Fixed maturity securities   
     
  U.S. corporate securities  
     
  U.S. financial institutions  
     
  $  
  226  

$  
  83  

Equity securities   
     
  Non-redeemable preferred stock  
     
  Non-U.S. financial institutions  
     
  $  
  440  

$  
  1,043  

Equity securities   
     
  Non-redeemable preferred stock  
     
  U.S. financial institutions  
     
  $  
  350  

$  
  236  
      
    The Company s holdings in redeemable preferred stock with stated maturity dates,
commonly referred to as  capital securities,  were primarily issued by U.S. financial institutions and have cumulative interest deferral features. The Company held $1.9 billion and $2.7 billion at estimated fair value of such securities at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which are included in the U.S. and foreign corporate securities sectors within fixed maturity securities.       Valuation of Securities.   We are responsible for the determination of estimated fair value. The estimated fair value of publicly-traded securities is determined by management after
considering one of three primary sources of information: quoted market prices in active markets, independent pricing services, or independent broker quotations; whereas for privately placed securities, estimated fair value is determined after
considering one of three primary sources of information: market standard internal matrix pricing, market standard internal discounted cash flow techniques, or independent pricing services after we determine their use of available observable market
data. Discounted cash flow techniques rely upon the estimated future cash flows of the security, credit spreads of comparable public securities and secondary transactions, as well as other factors, including the credit quality of the issuer and the
reduced liquidity associated with privately placed debt securities. For publicly-traded securities, the number of quotations obtained varies by instrument and depends on the liquidity of the particular instrument. Generally, we obtain prices from
multiple pricing services to cover all asset classes and obtain multiple prices for certain securities, but ultimately utilize the price with the highest placement in the fair value hierarchy. Independent pricing services that value these
instruments use market standard valuation methodologies based on data about market transactions and inputs from multiple pricing sources that are market observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. See
Note 5   
         138

Table of Contents  

of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the types of market standard valuation methodologies utilized and key assumptions and observable inputs used in applying
these standard valuation methodologies. When a price is not available in the active market or through an independent pricing service, management will value the security primarily using market standard internal matrix pricing or discounted cash flow
techniques, and non-binding quotations from independent brokers who are knowledgeable about these securities. Independent non-binding broker quotations utilize inputs that may be difficult to corroborate with observable market data. As shown in the
following section, less than 1% of our fixed maturity securities were valued using non-binding quotations from independent brokers at December 31, 2011.      Senior management, independent of the trading and investing functions, is responsible for the oversight of control systems and valuation policies, including reviewing and approving new transaction types
and markets, for ensuring that observable market prices and market-based parameters are used for valuation, wherever possible, and for determining that judgmental valuation adjustments, when applied, are based upon established policies and are
applied consistently over time. We review our valuation methodologies on an ongoing basis and revise when necessary based on changing market conditions. We gain assurance on the overall reasonableness and consistent application of input assumptions,
valuation methodologies and compliance with accounting standards for fair value determination through our controls designed to ensure that the financial assets and financial liabilities are appropriately valued and represent an exit price. We
utilize several controls, including certain monthly controls, which include, but are not limited to, analysis of portfolio returns to corresponding benchmark returns, comparing a sample of executed prices of securities sold to the fair value
estimates, comparing fair value estimates to management s knowledge of the current market, reviewing the bid/ask spreads to assess activity, comparing prices from multiple pricing sources, when available, reviewing independent auditor reports
regarding the controls over valuation of securities employed by independent pricing services, and ongoing due diligence to confirm that independent pricing services use market-based parameters for valuation. We determine the observability of inputs
used in estimated fair values received from independent pricing services or brokers by assessing whether these inputs can be corroborated by observable market data.   
  The Company also applies a formal process to challenge any prices received from independent pricing services that are not
considered representative of estimated fair value. If we conclude that prices received from independent pricing services are not reflective of market activity or representative of estimated fair value, we will seek independent non-binding broker
quotes or use an internally developed valuation to override these prices. As described below, such overrides have not been material. Our internally developed valuations of current estimated fair value, which reflect our estimates of liquidity and
non-performance risks, compared with pricing received from the independent pricing services, did not produce material differences for the vast majority of our fixed maturity securities portfolio. This is, in part, because our internal estimates of
liquidity and non-performance risks are generally based on available market evidence and estimates used by other market participants. In the absence of such market-based evidence, management s best estimate is used. As a result, we generally
use the price provided by the independent pricing service under our normal pricing protocol.      The Company has
reviewed the significance and observability of inputs used in the valuation methodologies to determine the appropriate fair value hierarchy level for each of its securities. Based on the results of this review and investment class analyses, each
instrument is categorized as Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the lowest level significant input to its valuation. Certain securities have been classified into Level 1 because of unadjusted quoted prices and high volumes of trading activity and narrow
bid/ask spreads. Most securities valued by independent pricing services have been classified into Level 2 because the significant inputs used in pricing these securities are market observable or can be corroborated using market observable
information. Most investment grade privately placed fixed maturity securities and certain below investment grade privately placed fixed maturity securities priced by independent pricing services that use observable inputs have been classified within
Level 2. Distressed privately placed fixed maturity securities have been classified within Level 3. Below investment grade privately placed fixed maturity securities and less liquid securities with very limited trading activity where estimated fair
values are determined by independent pricing services or by non-binding quotations from independent brokers that use inputs that may be difficult to corroborate with observable market data, are
  
         139

Table of Contents  

classified as Level 3. Use of independent non-binding broker quotations generally indicates there is a lack of liquidity or the general lack of transparency in the process to develop these price
estimates causing them to be considered Level 3. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the valuation techniques and inputs by level within the three level fair value hierarchy by major
classes of invested assets.      Quarterly, we evaluate and monitor the markets in which our fixed maturity and
equity securities trade and, in our judgment, despite reduced levels of liquidity discussed above, believe none of these fixed maturity and equity securities trading markets should be characterized as distressed and disorderly.   
   Fair Value Hierarchy and Level 3 Rollforward   Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities.  Fixed maturity
securities and equity securities available-for-sale measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their corresponding fair value pricing sources and fair value hierarchy are as follows:   

140

Table of Contents  

The composition of fair value pricing sources for and significant changes in Level 3
securities at December 31, 2011 are as follows:       

The majority of the Level 3 fixed maturity and equity securities (83%, as presented above) were concentrated in four sectors: U.S. and
foreign corporate securities, foreign government securities and ABS.          

Level 3 fixed maturity securities are priced principally through market standard valuation methodologies, independent pricing services and
independent non-binding broker quotations using inputs that are not market observable or cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 fixed maturity securities consist of less liquid fixed maturity
securities with very limited trading activity or where less price transparency exists around the inputs to the valuation methodologies including alternative residential mortgage loan ( Alt-A ) and sub-prime RMBS and less liquid prime RMBS,
certain below investment grade private placements and less liquid investment grade corporate securities (included in U.S. and foreign corporate securities), less liquid foreign government securities and less liquid ABS.

During the year ended December 31, 2011, Level 3 fixed maturity securities decreased by $5.0 billion, or 22%. The decrease was driven by net
transfers out of Level 3, partially offset by net purchases in excess of sales and increase in estimated fair value recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). See analysis of transfers into and/or out of Level 3 below. The increase
in net purchases in excess of sales of fixed maturity securities were concentrated in ABS and foreign government securities, and the increase in estimated fair value recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for fixed maturity
securities was concentrated in U.S. corporate securities due in part to a decrease in interest rates.      
         141

Table of Contents  

   A rollforward of the fair value measurements for fixed maturity securities
and equity securities available-for-sale measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs is as follows:       

(1)  
    Total gains and losses in earnings and other comprehensive income (loss) are calculated assuming transfers into or out of Level 3 occurred at
the beginning of the period. Items transferred into and out for the same period are excluded from the rollforward. Total gains (losses) for fixed maturity securities included in earnings of ($7) million and other comprehensive income (loss) of
$9 million, were incurred on these securities subsequent to their transfer into Level 3, for the year ended December 31, 2011, respectively.      
  An analysis of transfers into and/or out of Level 3 for the year ended December 31, 2011 is as follows:
     Overall, transfers into and/or out of Level 3 are attributable to a change in the observability of
inputs. Assets and liabilities are transferred into Level 3 when a significant input cannot be corroborated with market observable data. This occurs when market activity decreases significantly and underlying inputs cannot be observed, current
prices are not available, and when there are significant variances in quoted prices, thereby affecting transparency. Assets and liabilities are transferred out of Level 3 when circumstances change such that a significant input can be
corroborated with market observable data. This may be due to a significant increase in market activity, a specific event, or one or more significant input(s) becoming observable. Transfers into and/or out of any level are assumed to occur at the
beginning of the period. Significant transfers into and/or out of Level 3 assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2011 are summarized below:       

During the year ended December 31, 2011, fixed maturity securities transfers into Level 3 of $599 million resulted primarily from
current market conditions characterized by a lack of trading activity, decreased liquidity and credit ratings downgrades (e.g., from investment grade to below investment grade). These current market conditions have resulted in decreased transparency
of valuations and an increased use of broker quotations and unobservable inputs to determine estimated fair value principally for certain U.S. and foreign corporate securities and foreign government securities.      

During the year ended December 31, 2011, fixed maturity securities transfers out of Level 3 of ($6.7) billion resulted primarily from
increased transparency of both new issuances that, subsequent to issuance and establishment of trading activity, became priced by independent pricing services and existing issuances that, over time, the Company was able to obtain pricing from, or
corroborate pricing received from independent pricing services with observable inputs, or there were increases in market activity and upgraded credit ratings primarily for ABS, foreign government securities, U.S. and foreign corporate securities and
RMBS.         See    Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates   Estimated Fair
Value of Investments  for further information on the estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported above.   
         142

Table of Contents  

   See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
further information about the valuation techniques and inputs by level by major classes of invested assets that affect the amounts reported above.       Fixed Maturity Securities.  See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about:   

Fixed maturity and equity securities on a sector basis and the related cost or amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses, including the
noncredit loss component of OTTI loss, and estimated fair value of such securities at December 31, 2011 and 2010;          

Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality   Ratings.  The Securities Valuation Office of the National
Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ) evaluates the fixed maturity security investments of insurers for regulatory reporting and capital assessment purposes and assigns securities to one of six credit quality categories called
 NAIC designations.  If no rating is available from the NAIC, then as permitted by the NAIC, an internally developed rating is used. The NAIC ratings are generally similar to the credit quality designations of the Nationally Recognized
Statistical Ratings Organizations ( NRSROs ) for marketable fixed maturity securities, called  rating agency designations,  except for certain structured securities as described below. NAIC ratings 1 and 2 include fixed maturity
securities generally considered investment grade (i.e., rated  Baa3  or better by Moody s or rated  BBB  or better by S P and Fitch) by such rating organizations. NAIC ratings 3 through 6 include fixed maturity
securities generally considered below investment grade (i.e., rated  Ba1  or lower by Moody s or rated  BB+  or lower by S P and Fitch) by such rating organizations. Rating agency designations are based on availability
of applicable ratings from rating agencies on the NAIC acceptable rating organizations list, including Moody s, S P, Fitch and Realpoint, LLC. If no rating is available from a rating agency, then an internally developed rating is used.
     The NAIC adopted revised rating methodologies for certain structured securities comprised of non-agency RMBS,
CMBS and ABS. The NAIC s objective with the revised rating methodologies for these structured securities was to increase the accuracy in assessing expected losses, and to use the improved assessment to determine a more appropriate capital
requirement for such structured securities. The revised methodologies reduce regulatory reliance on rating agencies and allow for greater regulatory input into the assumptions used to estimate expected losses from structured securities. The Company
applies the revised NAIC rating methodologies to structured securities held by MetLife, Inc. s insurance subsidiaries that file NAIC statutory financial statements. The NAIC s present methodology is to evaluate structured securities held
by insurers using the revised NAIC rating methodologies on an annual basis. If such insurance subsidiaries of the Company acquire structured securities that have not been previously evaluated by the NAIC, but are expected to be evaluated by the NAIC
in the upcoming annual review, an internally developed rating is used until a final rating becomes available.   
  The four tables below present fixed maturity securities based on rating agency designations and equivalent designations
of the NAIC, with the exception of certain structured securities described above. These structured securities are presented based on ratings from the revised NAIC rating methodologies described above (which may not correspond to rating agency
designations). All NAIC designation (e.g., NAIC 1   6) amounts and percentages presented herein are based on the revised NAIC methodologies described above. All rating agency designation (e.g., Aaa/AAA) amounts and percentages
presented herein are based on rating agency designations without adjustment for the revised NAIC methodologies described above.   
         143

Table of Contents  

   The following table presents total fixed maturity securities by NRSRO
designation and the equivalent designations of the NAIC, except for certain structured securities, which are presented as described above, as well as the percentage, based on estimated fair value, that each designation is comprised of at:
      
    The following tables present total fixed maturity securities, based on estimated fair
value, by sector classification and by NRSRO designation and the equivalent designations of the NAIC, except for certain structured securities, which are presented as described above, that each designation is comprised of at December 31,
2011and 2010:       
 
         144

Table of Contents  

(1)  
    Presented using the revised NAIC rating methodologies described above.      

(2)  
    Within fixed maturity securities, a reclassification from the ABS sector to the RMBS sector has been made to the prior year amounts to conform to
the current year presentation for securities backed by sub-prime residential mortgage loans to be consistent with market convention relating to the risks inherent in such securities and the Company s management of its investments within these
asset sectors.         The following table presents selected information about certain fixed
maturity securities held at:       
 
         145

Table of Contents  

    U.S. and Foreign Corporate Fixed Maturity Securities.   The
Company maintains a diversified portfolio of corporate fixed maturity securities across industries and issuers. This portfolio does not have an exposure to any single issuer in excess of 1% of total investments. The tables below present information
for U.S. and foreign corporate securities at:       

(1)  
    Includes U.S. dollar denominated and foreign denominated debt obligations of foreign obligors and other foreign fixed maturity securities.
         
     Structured Securities.   The following table presents information about
structured securities at:       
 
         146

Table of Contents  

    RMBS . The table below presents information on RMBS holdings at:
      
    Collateralized mortgage obligations are a type of mortgage-backed security structured by
dividing the cash flows of mortgages into separate pools or tranches of risk that create multiple classes of bonds with varying maturities and priority of payments. Pass-through mortgage-backed securities are a type of asset-backed security that is
secured by a mortgage or collection of mortgages. The monthly mortgage payments from homeowners pass from the originating bank through an intermediary, such as a government agency or investment bank, which collects the payments and, for a fee,
remits or passes these payments through to the holders of the pass-through securities.      The majority of RMBS
held by the Company was rated Aaa/AAA by Moody s, S P or Fitch; and the majority was rated NAIC 1 by the NAIC at December 31, 2011 and 2010, as presented above. Agency RMBS were guaranteed or otherwise supported by FNMA, FHLMC or GNMA.
Non-agency RMBS include prime, Alt-A and sub-prime RMBS. Prime residential mortgage lending includes the origination of residential mortgage loans to the most creditworthy borrowers with high quality credit profiles. Alt-A is a classification of
mortgage loans where the risk profile of the borrower falls between prime and sub-prime. Sub-prime mortgage lending is the origination of residential mortgage loans to borrowers with weak credit profiles. Included within prime and Alt-A RMBS are
resecuritization of real estate mortgage investment conduit ( Re-REMIC ) securities. Re-REMIC RMBS involve the pooling of previous issues of prime and Alt-A RMBS and restructuring the combined pools to create new senior and subordinated
securities. The credit enhancement on the senior tranches is improved through the resecuritization.      At
December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company s Alt-A securities portfolio has no exposure to option adjustable rate mortgages ( ARMs ) and a minimal exposure to hybrid ARMs. The Company s Alt-A securities portfolio is comprised
primarily of fixed rate mortgages (93% and 91% at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively) which have performed better than both option ARMs and hybrid ARMs in the overall Alt-A market. The Company s Alt-A RMBS holdings had unrealized
losses of $871 million and $670 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Approximately 7% and 16% of this portfolio was rated Aa or better at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
  The sub-prime RMBS had unrealized losses of $347 million and $317 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. At December 31, 2011, approximately 21% of this portfolio was rated Aa or better, of which 79% was in vintage year 2005 and prior. At December 31, 2010, approximately 54% of this portfolio was rated Aa or better, of which 88%
was in vintage year 2005 and prior. These older vintages from 2005 and prior benefit from better underwriting, improved credit enhancement levels and higher residential property price appreciation. Approximately 69% and 66% of this portfolio was
rated NAIC 2 or better at December 31, 2011 and 2010,   
         147

Table of Contents  

respectively. The slowing U.S. housing market, greater use of affordable mortgage products and relaxed underwriting standards for some originators of sub-prime residential mortgage loans
have led to higher delinquency and loss rates, especially within the 2006 and 2007 vintage years. These factors have caused a pull-back in market liquidity and repricing of risk, which has led to higher levels of unrealized losses on securities
backed by sub-prime residential mortgage loans as compared to historical levels.       CMBS.  The following
tables present holdings of CMBS by rating agency designation and by vintage year at:       
    The tables above reflect rating agency designations assigned by nationally recognized
rating agencies including Moody s, S P, Fitch and Realpoint, LLC.      The weighted average credit
enhancement of the Company s CMBS holdings was 27% and 26% at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. This credit enhancement percentage represents the current weighted average estimated percentage of outstanding capital structure
subordinated to the Company s investment holding that is available to absorb losses before the security incurs the first dollar of loss of principal. The credit protection does not include any equity interest or property value in excess of
outstanding debt.   
         148

Table of Contents  

    ABS.   The Company s ABS are diversified both by
collateral type and by issuer. The following table presents information about ABS held at:       
      Evaluation of Fixed Maturity Securities and Equity Securities Available-for-Sale for
Other-Than-Temporary Impairment        See the following sections within Note 3 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the evaluation of fixed maturity securities and equity securities available-for-sale for OTTI:       

Evaluating available-for-sale securities for other-than-temporary impairment;      

Net unrealized investment gains (losses);          

Continuous gross unrealized losses and OTTI losses for fixed maturity and equity securities available-for-sale by sector;

Aging of gross unrealized losses and OTTI losses for fixed maturity and equity securities available-for-sale;      

Concentration of gross unrealized losses and OTTI losses for fixed maturity and equity securities available-for-sale; and

Evaluating temporarily impaired available-for-sale securities.      
    Trading and Other Securities        The Company has a trading securities portfolio, principally invested in fixed maturity securities, to support investment strategies that involve the active and frequent purchase and sale of securities
( Actively Traded Securities ) and the execution of short sale agreements. Trading and other securities also include securities for which the FVO has been elected ( FVO Securities ). FVO Securities include certain fixed maturity
and equity securities held for investment by the general account to support asset and liability matching strategies for certain insurance products. FVO Securities also include contractholder-directed investments supporting unit-linked variable
annuity type liabilities which do not qualify for presentation as separate account summary total assets and liabilities. These investments are primarily mutual funds and, to a lesser extent, fixed maturity and equity securities, short-term
investments and cash and cash equivalents. The investment returns on these investments inure to contractholders and are offset by a corresponding change in PABs through interest credited to policyholder account balances. FVO Securities also include
securities held by CSEs (former qualifying special purpose entities). Trading and other securities were $18.3 billion and $18.6 billion at estimated fair value, or 3.5% and 3.9% of total cash and invested assets, at December 31, 2011 and
2010, respectively. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for tables which present information about the Actively Traded Securities and FVO Securities, related short sale agreement liabilities and investments pledged
to secure short sale agreement liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010.   
         149

Table of Contents  

   Trading and other securities and trading (short sale agreement) liabilities,
measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their corresponding fair value hierarchy, are presented as follows:       
    A rollforward of the fair value measurements for trading and other securities measured at
estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs for the year ended December 31, 2011, is as follows:       
    See     Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates  for further
information on the estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported above.      See Note 5 of the Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about the valuation techniques and inputs by level of major classes of invested assets that affect the amounts reported above.   
    Net Investment Gains (Losses) Including OTTI Losses Recognized in Earnings     
  See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for tables that present:   

Proceeds from sales or disposals of fixed maturity and equity securities and the components of fixed maturity and equity securities net investment
gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009;          

Fixed maturity security OTTI losses recognized in earnings by sector and industry within the U.S. and foreign corporate securities sector for the
years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009; and          
     Overview of Fixed Maturity and Equity Security OTTI Losses Recognized in
Earnings.  Impairments of fixed maturity and equity securities were $1.0 billion, $484 million and $1.9 billion for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Impairments of fixed maturity securities
were $955 million, $470 million and $1.5 billion for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Impairments of equity securities were $60 million, $14 million and $400 million for the years
ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
         150

Table of Contents  

   The Company s credit-related impairments of fixed maturity securities
were $645 million, $423 million and $1.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.      The Company s three largest impairments totaled $499 million, $105 million and $508 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
  The Company records OTTI losses charged to earnings within net investment gains (losses) and adjusts the cost basis of
the fixed maturity and equity securities accordingly. The Company does not change the revised cost basis for subsequent recoveries in value.      Explanations of changes in fixed maturity and equity securities impairments are as follows:       

Year Ended December 31, 2011 compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2010    Overall OTTI losses recognized in earnings on
fixed maturity and equity securities were $1.0 billion for the current year as compared to $484 million in the prior year. The increase in OTTI losses on fixed maturity and equity securities primarily reflects impairments on Greece
sovereign debt securities of $405 million as a result of the reduction in the expected recoverable amount (see    Investments   Current Environment ) and intent-to-sell fixed maturity security impairments on other sovereign debt
securities due to the repositioning of the acquired ALICO portfolio into longer duration and higher yielding investments, resulting in total sovereign debt security impairments of $486 million recognized in 2011. In addition, intent-to-sell
impairments related to the Divested Businesses of $154 million were recognized in 2011 primarily concentrated in the RMBS sector. These increased impairments were partially offset by decreased impairments in the CMBS, ABS and corporate sectors,
reflecting improving economic fundamentals.          

Year Ended December 31, 2010 compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2009    Overall OTTI losses recognized in earnings on
fixed maturity and equity securities were $484 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.9 billion in the prior year. Improving or stabilizing market conditions across all sectors and industries, particularly the
financial services industry, as compared to the prior year when there was significant stress in the global financial markets, resulted in a lower level of impairments in fixed maturity and equity securities in 2010. The most significant decrease in
the current year, as compared to the prior year, was in the Company s financial services industry holdings which comprised $799 million in fixed maturity and equity security impairments in the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared
to $129 million in impairments in the year ended December 31, 2010. Of the $799 million in financial services industry impairments in the prior year, $340 million were in equity securities, of which $310 million were in
financial services industry perpetual hybrid securities which were impaired as a result of deterioration in the credit rating of the issuer to below investment grade and due to a severe and extended unrealized loss position on these securities.
Impairments in the current year were concentrated in the RMBS, ABS and CMBS sectors reflecting then current economic conditions including higher unemployment levels and continued weakness within the real estate markets. Of the fixed maturity and
equity securities impairments of $484 million and $1.9 billion in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, $287 million and $449 million, or 59% and 24%, respectively, were in the Company s RMBS, ABS and
CMBS holdings.          Future Impairments.   Future OTTIs will depend primarily on
economic fundamentals, issuer performance (including changes in the present value of future cash flows expected to be collected), changes in credit ratings, changes in collateral valuation, changes in interest rates and changes in credit spreads. If
economic fundamentals or any of the above factors deteriorate, additional OTTIs may be incurred in upcoming quarters.   
    Credit Loss Rollforward   Rollforward of the Cumulative Credit Loss Component of OTTI Loss Recognized in Earnings on
Fixed Maturity Securities Still Held for Which a Portion of the OTTI Loss Was Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)        See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the table that presents a rollforward of the cumulative credit loss component of OTTI loss recognized in earnings on fixed
maturity securities still held at December 31, 2011 and 2010 for which a portion of the OTTI loss was recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.   
         151

Table of Contents  

     Securities Lending     
  The Company participates in a securities lending program whereby blocks of securities, which are included in fixed
maturity securities and short-term investments, are loaned to third parties, primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks. The Company obtains collateral, usually cash, in an amount generally equal to 102% of the estimated fair value of the
securities loaned, which is obtained at the inception of a loan and maintained at a level greater than or equal to 100% for the duration of the loan. Securities loaned under such transactions may be sold or repledged by the transferee. The Company
is liable to return to its counterparties the cash collateral under its control. These transactions are treated as financing arrangements and the associated liability is recorded at the amount of the cash received.   
  See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the following information regarding the
Company s securities lending program: securities on loan, cash collateral on deposit from counterparties, security collateral on deposit from counterparties and the estimated fair value of the reinvestment portfolio at December 31, 2011
and 2010.        Invested Assets on Deposit, Held in Trust and Pledged as Collateral     
  See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table of the invested assets on deposit, held in
trust and pledged as collateral at December 31, 2011 and 2010.        Mortgage Loans     
  The Company s mortgage loans are principally collateralized by commercial real estate, agricultural real estate and
residential properties. The carrying value of mortgage loans was $72.1 billion and $62.3 billion, or 13.8% and 13.1% of total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. See Note 3 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for a table that presents the Company s mortgage loans held-for-investment of $56.9 billion and $59.0 billion by portfolio segment at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, as well as the
components of the mortgage loans held-for-sale of $15.2 billion and $3.3 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The information presented below excludes the effects of consolidating certain VIEs that are treated as CSEs
and securitized reverse residential mortgage loans. Such amounts are presented in the aforementioned table.   
  The Company diversifies its mortgage loan portfolio by both geographic region and property type to reduce the risk of
concentration. Of the Company s commercial and agricultural mortgage loans, 90% are collateralized by properties located in the U.S., with the remaining 10% collateralized by properties located outside the U.S., calculated as a percent of the
total mortgage loans held - for- investment (excluding commercial mortgage loans held by CSEs) at December 31, 2011. The carrying value of the Company s commercial and agricultural mortgage loans located in California, New York and Texas
were 19%, 10% and 8%, respectively, of total mortgage loans held for investment (excluding commercial mortgage loans held by CSEs) at December 31, 2011. Additionally, the Company manages risk when originating commercial and agricultural
mortgage loans by generally lending only up to 75% of the estimated fair value of the underlying real estate collateral.   
         152

Table of Contents  

    Commercial Mortgage Loans by Geographic Region and Property
Type.   Commercial mortgage loans are the largest component of the mortgage loan invested asset class as it represents over 70% of total mortgage loans held-for-investment (excluding the effects of consolidating certain VIEs that are
treated as CSEs) at both December 31, 2011 and 2010. The tables below present the diversification across geographic regions and property types of commercial mortgage loans held-for-investment at:   

(1)  
    Reclassifications have been made to the prior year amounts from various regions to the Multi-Region and Other region to conform to the current year
presentation.          Mortgage Loan Credit Quality   Restructured, Potentially
Delinquent, Delinquent or Under Foreclosure.  The Company monitors its mortgage loan investments on an ongoing basis, including reviewing loans that are restructured, potentially delinquent, and delinquent or under foreclosure. These loan
classifications are consistent with those used in industry practice.      The Company defines restructured
mortgage loans as loans in which the Company, for economic or legal reasons related to the debtor s financial difficulties, grants a concession to the debtor that it would not otherwise consider. The Company defines potentially delinquent loans
as loans that, in management s opinion, have a high probability of becoming delinquent in the near term. The Company defines delinquent mortgage loans consistent   
         153

Table of Contents  

with industry practice, when interest and principal payments are past due as follows: commercial mortgage loans   60 days or more; agricultural mortgage loans  
90 days or more; and residential mortgage loans   60 days or more. The Company defines mortgage loans under foreclosure as loans in which foreclosure proceedings have formally commenced.   
  The following table presents the recorded investment and valuation allowance for all mortgage loans held-for-investment
distributed by the above stated loan classifications at:       

(1)  
    As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, restructured commercial mortgage loans were comprised of 10 and five restructured loans, respectively, all of
which were performing.          

(2)  
    Of the $13.1 billion of agricultural mortgage loans outstanding at December 31, 2011, 50% were subject to rate resets prior to maturity. A
substantial portion of these mortgage loans have been successfully reset, refinanced or extended at market terms.          

(3)  
    As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, restructured agricultural mortgage loans were comprised of 11 and five restructured loans, respectively, all
of which were performing. Additionally, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, delinquent or under foreclosure agricultural mortgage loans included four and two restructured loans with a recorded investment of $13 million and $29 million,
respectively, which were not performing.          

(4)  
    Residential mortgage loans held-for-investment consist primarily of first lien residential mortgage loans and, to a much lesser extent, second lien
residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit.          

(5)  
    There were no restructured residential mortgage loans at December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2010, restructured residential mortgage
loans were comprised of 12 restructured loans, all of which were performing.          

(6)  
    The valuation allowance on and the related carrying value of certain residential mortgage loans held-for-investment was transferred to held-for-sale
in connection with the pending disposition of certain operations of MetLife Bank. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      
         154

Table of Contents  

   See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
tables that present, by portfolio segment, mortgage loans by credit quality indicator, impaired mortgage loans, past due and nonaccrual mortgage loans, as well as loans modified through troubled debt restructurings.   
   Mortgage Loan Credit Quality   Monitoring Process   Commercial and Agricultural Mortgage
Loans.   The Company reviews all commercial mortgage loans on an ongoing basis. These reviews may include an analysis of the property financial statements and rent roll, lease rollover analysis, property inspections, market analysis,
estimated valuations of the underlying collateral, loan-to-value ratios, debt service coverage ratios, and tenant creditworthiness. The monitoring process focuses on higher risk loans, which include those that are classified as restructured,
potentially delinquent, delinquent or in foreclosure, as well as loans with higher loan-to-value ratios and lower debt service coverage ratios. The monitoring process for agricultural mortgage loans is generally similar, with a focus on higher risk
loans, such as loans with higher loan-to-value ratios, including reviews on a geographic and property type basis.      Loan-to-value ratios and debt service coverage ratios are common measures in the assessment of the quality of commercial mortgage loans. Loan-to-value ratios are a common measure in the assessment of the
quality of agricultural mortgage loans. Loan-to-value ratios compare the amount of the loan to the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral. A loan-to-value ratio greater than 100% indicates that the loan amount is greater than the
collateral value. A loan-to-value ratio of less than 100% indicates an excess of collateral value over the loan amount. The debt service coverage ratio compares a property s net operating income to amounts needed to service the principal and
interest due under the loan. For commercial mortgage loans, the average loan-to-value ratio was 61% and 66% at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and the average debt service coverage ratio was 2.1x at December 31, 2011, as compared
to 2.4x at December 31, 2010. The commercial mortgage loan debt service coverage ratio and loan-to-value ratio, as well as the values utilized in calculating these ratios, are updated annually, on a rolling basis, with a portion of the
commercial mortgage loan portfolio updated each quarter. For agricultural mortgage loans, the average loan-to-value ratio was 48% and 49% at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The values utilized in calculating the agricultural mortgage
loan loan-to-value ratio are developed in connection with the ongoing review of the agricultural loan portfolio and are routinely updated.       Mortgage Loan Credit Quality   Monitoring Process   Residential Mortgage Loans.   The Company has a conservative residential mortgage loan portfolio and does not hold
any option ARMs, sub-prime or low teaser rate loans. Higher risk loans include those that are classified as restructured, potentially delinquent, delinquent or in foreclosure, as well as loans with higher loan-to-value ratios and interest-only
loans. The Company s investment in residential junior lien loans and residential mortgage loans with a loan-to-value ratio of 80% or more was $74 million and $95 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and certain of
the higher loan-to-value residential mortgage loans have mortgage insurance coverage which reduces the loan-to-value ratio to less than 80%. Additionally, the Company s investment in traditional residential interest-only mortgage loans was
$6 million and $389 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.       Mortgage Loan
Valuation Allowances.   The Company s valuation allowances are established both on a loan specific basis for those loans considered impaired where a property specific or market specific risk has been identified that could likely
result in a future loss, as well as for pools of loans with similar risk characteristics where a property specific or market specific risk has not been identified, but for which the Company expects to incur a loss. Accordingly, a valuation allowance
is provided to absorb these estimated probable credit losses. The Company records additions to and decreases in its valuation allowances and gains and losses from the sale of loans in net investment gains (losses).   
  The Company records valuation allowances for loans considered to be impaired when it is probable that, based upon current
information and events, the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due under the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Based on the facts and circumstances of the individual loans being impaired, loan specific valuation allowances are
established for the excess carrying value of the loan over either: (i) the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan s original effective interest rate; (ii) the estimated fair value of the loan s
underlying collateral if the loan is in the process of foreclosure or otherwise collateral dependent; or (iii) the loan s observable market price.   
         155

Table of Contents  

   The Company also establishes valuation allowances for loan losses for pools
of loans with similar risk characteristics, such as property types, loan-to-value ratios and debt service coverage ratios when, based on past experience, it is probable that a credit event has occurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably
estimated. These valuation allowances are based on loan risk characteristics, historical default rates and loss severities, real estate market fundamentals and outlook, as well as other relevant factors.   
  The determination of the amount of, and additions or decreases to, valuation allowances is based upon the Company s
periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with its loan portfolios. Such evaluations and assessments are based upon several factors, including the Company s experience for loan losses, defaults and loss severity,
and loss expectations for loans with similar risk characteristics. These evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. We update our evaluations regularly, which can cause the valuation
allowances to increase or decrease over time as such evaluations are revised. Negative credit migration including an actual or expected increase in the level of problem loans will result in an increase in the valuation allowance. Positive credit
migration including an actual or expected decrease in the level of problem loans will result in a decrease in the valuation allowance. Such changes in the valuation allowance are recorded in net investment gains (losses).   
  See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table that presents the activity in the
Company s valuation allowances, by portfolio segment, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009; and for tables that present the Company s valuation allowances, by type of credit loss, by portfolio segment, at
December 31, 2011 and 2010.      Impairments to estimated fair value included within net investment gains
(losses) for impaired mortgage loans were $18 million and $17 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The estimated fair value of the impaired mortgage loans after these impairments was $209 million and $197 million
at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which are carried at estimated fair value based on the value of the underlying collateral or independent broker quotations, if lower, of which $151 million and $164 million related to impaired
mortgage loans held-for-investment and $58 million and $33 million to certain mortgage loans held-for-sale, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. These impaired mortgage loans were recorded at estimated fair value and represent a
nonrecurring fair value measurement. The estimated fair value is categorized as Level 3 due to the lack of transparency and unobservability in collateral valuation and independent broker quotations.   
    Real Estate and Real Estate Joint Ventures     
  The Company diversifies its real estate investments by both geographic region and property type to reduce risk of
concentration. Of the Company s real estate investments, 83% are primarily located in the United States, with the remaining 17% located outside the United States, at December 31, 2011. The three locations with the largest real estate
investments were California, Japan and Florida at 19%, 14%, and 12%, respectively, at December 31, 2011. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding real estate and real estate joint
venture investments.   
         156

Table of Contents  

   Real estate and real estate joint venture investments by property type are
categorized as follows:       
    There were no impairments recognized on real estate and real estate joint ventures
held-for-investment for the year ended December 31, 2011. Impairments recognized on real estate and real estate joint ventures held-for-investment were $48 million and $160 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively, which included impairments on cost basis real estate joint ventures of $25 million and $82 million, respectively. There were no impaired cost basis real estate joint ventures held as of December 31, 2011. The estimated
fair value of the impaired cost basis real estate joint ventures, after impairments, held as of December 31, 2010, was $8 million. These impairments to estimated fair value represent non-recurring fair value measurements that have been
classified as Level 3 due to the limited activity and limited price transparency inherent in the market for such investments. Impairments recognized on real estate held-for-sale were $2 million and $1 million for the years ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. There were no impairments recognized on real estate held-for-sale for the year ended December 31, 2009.        Other Limited Partnership Interests        The carrying
value of other limited partnership interests (which primarily represent ownership interests in pooled investment funds that principally make private equity investments in companies in the United States and overseas) was $6.4 billion at both
December 31, 2011 and 2010, which included $1.1 billion and $1.0 billion of hedge funds, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Impairments to estimated fair value for such other limited partnership interests of $5 million,
$12 million and $354 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were recognized within net investment gains (losses). The estimated fair value of the impaired other limited partnership interests after
these impairments was $13 million, $23 million and $561 million at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These impairments to estimated fair value represent non-recurring fair value measurements that have been
classified as Level 3 due to the limited activity and limited price transparency inherent in the market for such investments.   
    Other Invested Assets        See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table that presents the Company s other invested assets by type at December 31, 2011 and 2010 and related information.
       Short-term Investments and Cash Equivalents     
  The carrying value of short-term investments, which includes securities and other investments with remaining maturities
of one year or less, but greater than three months, at the time of purchase was $17.3 billion and $9.4 billion, or 3.3% and 2.0% of total cash and invested assets, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The
  
         157

Table of Contents  

carrying value of cash equivalents, which includes securities and other investments with an original or remaining maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase, was $5.0 billion and
$9.6 billion, or 1.0% and 2.0% of total cash and invested assets, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
    Derivative Financial Instruments         Derivatives.   The Company is exposed to various risks relating to its ongoing business operations, including interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, credit risk, and equity market
risk. The Company uses a variety of strategies to manage these risks, including the use of derivative instruments. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for:   

A comprehensive description of the nature of the Company s derivative instruments, including the strategies for which derivatives are used in
managing various risks.          

Information about the notional amount, estimated fair value, and primary underlying risk exposure of the Company s derivative financial
instruments, excluding embedded derivatives held at December 31, 2011 and 2010.      
   Hedging.   See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information about:

The notional amount and estimated fair value of derivatives and non-derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments by type of hedge
designation at December 31, 2011 and 2010.          

The notional amount and estimated fair value of derivatives that are not designated or do not qualify as hedging instruments by derivative type at
December 31, 2011 and 2010.          
    See  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk   Management of Market Risk Exposures   Hedging Activities  for more information about the Company s use of derivatives by major hedge program.   
   Fair Value Hierarchy.   Derivatives measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their
corresponding fair value hierarchy, are presented as follows:       
    The valuation of Level 3 derivatives involves the use of significant unobservable
inputs and generally requires a higher degree of management judgment or estimation than the valuations of Level 1 and Level 2 derivatives. Although Level 3 inputs are unobservable, management believes they are consistent with what other
market participants would use when pricing such instruments and are considered appropriate given the circumstances. The use of different inputs or methodologies could have a material effect on the estimated fair value of Level 3 derivatives and
could materially affect net income.   
         158

Table of Contents  

   Derivatives categorized as Level 3 at December 31, 2011 include:
interest rate swaps and interest rate forwards with maturities which extend beyond the observable portion of the yield curve; interest rate lock commitments with certain unobservable inputs, including pull-through rates; equity variance swaps with
unobservable volatility inputs; foreign currency swaps which are cancelable and priced through independent broker quotations; credit default swaps based upon baskets of credits having unobservable credit spreads, or that are priced through
independent broker quotations; equity options with unobservable volatility inputs or that are priced via independent broker quotations; and credit forwards having unobservable repurchase rates.   
  At December 31, 2011 and 2010, 5% and 2%, respectively, of the net derivative estimated fair value was priced via
independent broker quotations.      A rollforward of the fair value measurements for net derivatives measured at
estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs for the year ended December 31, 2011 is as follows:       
    See    Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates   Derivative
Financial Instruments  for further information on the estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported above.       Credit Risk.   See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information about how the Company manages credit risk related to its freestanding derivatives,
including the use of master netting agreements and collateral arrangements.      The Company s policy is not
to offset the fair value amounts recognized for derivatives executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting agreement. This policy applies to the recognition of derivatives in the consolidated balance sheets, and does not affect
the Company s legal right of offset. The estimated fair value of the Company s net derivative assets and net derivative liabilities after the application of master netting agreements and collateral were as follows at December 31,
2011:       

December 31, 2011   

Net Derivative Assets   

Net Derivative Liabilities   

(In millions)   

Estimated Fair Value of OTC Derivatives After Application of Master Netting Agreements (1)   
      
  $  
  12,905  

$  
  619  

Cash collateral on OTC Derivatives   

(9,493  
  )   

(8  
  )    

Estimated Fair Value of OTC Derivatives After Application of Master Netting Agreements and Cash Collateral (1)   

3,412  

611  

Securities Collateral on OTC Derivatives (2)   

(2,520  
  )   

(416  
  )    

Estimated Fair Value of OTC Derivatives After Application of Master Netting Agreements and Cash and Securities Collateral
(1)   

892  

195  

Estimated Fair Value of Exchange-Traded Derivatives   

54  

30  

Total Estimated Fair Value of Derivatives After Application of Master Netting Agreements and Cash and Securities Collateral
(1)   
      
  $  
  946  

$  
  225  

159

Table of Contents  

(1)  
    Includes income accruals on derivatives.          

(2)  
    The collateral is held in separate custodial accounts and is not recorded on the Company s consolidated balance sheets.
         Credit Derivatives.   See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for information about the estimated fair value and maximum amount at risk related to the Company s written credit default swaps.       Embedded Derivatives.   The embedded derivatives measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their corresponding fair value hierarchy, are presented as follows:   
   
    A rollforward of the fair value measurements for net embedded derivatives measured at
estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs is as follows:       
    The valuation of guaranteed minimum benefits includes an adjustment for nonperformance
risk. Included in net derivative gains (losses) for the year ended December 31, 2011, were gains (losses) of $1.8 billion in connection with this adjustment.   
  See     Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates   Derivative Financial Instruments  for
further information on the estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported above.       Off-Balance Sheet
Arrangements           Credit Facilities and Committed Facilities       
  The Company maintains unsecured credit and committed facilities with various financial institutions. See   
Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Credit and Committed Facilities  for further descriptions of such arrangements.   
      Collateral for Securities Lending and Derivative Financial Instruments       
  The Company has non-cash collateral for securities lending from counterparties on deposit from customers, which cannot be
sold or repledged, and which has not been recorded on its consolidated balance sheets. The   
         160

Table of Contents  

Company participates in a securities lending program in the normal course of business for the purpose of enhancing the Company s total return on its investment portfolio. The amount of this
collateral was $371 million at estimated fair value at December 31, 2011. There was no non-cash collateral for securities lending on deposit from customers at December 31, 2010. See    Investments   Securities Lending  and
 Securities Lending  in Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the Company s securities lending program and the classification of revenues and expenses and the nature of the secured financing
arrangement and associated liability.      The Company has non-cash collateral from counterparties for derivative
financial instruments, which can be sold or repledged subject to certain constraints, and has not been recorded on its consolidated balance sheets. The Company enters into derivative financial instruments to manage various risks relating to its
ongoing business operations. The amount of this collateral was $2.5 billion and $984 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which were held in separate custodial accounts and not recorded on the Company s consolidated balance
sheets. See    Liquidity and Capital Resources  The Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Collateral Financing Arrangements  and  Derivatives  in Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for information on the earned income on and the gross notional amount, estimated fair value of assets and liabilities and primary underlying risk exposure of the Company s derivative financial instruments.   
      Lease Commitments       
  The Company, as lessee, has entered into various lease and sublease agreements for office space, information technology
and other equipment. The Company s commitments under such lease agreements are included within the contractual obligations table. See    Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity and Capital
Uses   Contractual Obligations  and Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.          Guarantees          See  Guarantees 
in Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.          Other   
      Additionally, the Company has the following commitments in the normal course of business for the purpose
of enhancing the Company s total return on its investment portfolio:       

Commitments to Fund Partnership Investments;          

Mortgage Loan Commitments; and          

Commitments to Fund Bank Credit Facilities, Bridge Loans and Private Corporate Bond Investments.      
  See  Net Investment Income  and  Net Investment Gains (Losses)  in Note 3 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the investment income, investment expense, gains and losses from such investments. See also  Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available-for-Sale,   Mortgage Loans, 
 Real Estate and Real Estate Joint Ventures,  and  Other Limited Partnerships  in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on our investments in fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans and
partnership investments.      Other than the commitments disclosed in Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, there are no other material obligations or liabilities arising from the commitments to fund partnership investments, mortgage loans, bank credit facilities, bridge loans, and private corporate bond investments.   
  See also    Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity and Capital
Uses   Contractual Obligations  for further information on commitments to fund partnership investments, mortgage loans, bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments. In addition, see  Primary Risks
Managed by Derivative Financial Instruments and Non-Derivative Financial Instruments  in Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on interest rate lock commitments.   
         161

Table of Contents  

    Policyholder Liabilities    
  We establish, and carry as liabilities, actuarially determined amounts that are calculated to meet policy obligations
when a policy matures or is surrendered, an insured dies or becomes disabled or upon the occurrence of other covered events, or to provide for future annuity payments. Amounts for actuarial liabilities are computed and reported in the consolidated
financial statements in conformity with GAAP. For more details on Policyholder Liabilities, see    Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates.       Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of actuarial liabilities, the Company cannot precisely determine the amounts that will
ultimately be paid with respect to these actuarial liabilities, and the ultimate amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when payments may not occur until well into the future.   
  Our actuarial liabilities for future benefits are adequate to cover the ultimate benefits required to be paid to
policyholders. We periodically review our estimates of actuarial liabilities for future benefits and compare them with our actual experience. We revise estimates, to the extent permitted or required under GAAP, if we determine that future expected
experience differs from assumptions used in the development of actuarial liabilities.      Insurance regulators in
many of the non-U.S. countries in which MetLife operates require certain MetLife entities to prepare a sufficiency analysis of the reserves posted in the locally required regulatory financial statements, and to submit that analysis to the regulatory
authorities. See  Business   International Regulation.       We have experienced, and will likely
in the future experience, catastrophe losses and possibly acts of terrorism, and turbulent financial markets that may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Catastrophes can be caused by various
events, including pandemics, hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks. Due to their
nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing, severity or amount of losses from catastrophes and acts of terrorism, but we make broad use of catastrophic and non-catastrophic reinsurance to manage risk from these perils.   
    Future Policy Benefits        We establish liabilities for amounts payable under insurance policies. See Notes 1 and 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.   
   Insurance Products.   Future policy benefits are comprised mainly of liabilities for disabled lives under
disability waiver of premium policy provisions, liabilities for survivor income benefit insurance, LTC policies, active life policies and premium stabilization and other contingency liabilities held under participating life insurance contracts. In
order to manage risk, the Company has often reinsured a portion of the mortality risk on new individual life insurance policies. The reinsurance programs are routinely evaluated and this may result in increases or decreases to existing coverage. The
Company entered into various derivative positions, primarily interest rate swaps and swaptions, to mitigate the risk that investment of premiums received and reinvestment of maturing assets over the life of the policy will be at rates below those
assumed in the original pricing of these contracts.       Retirement Products.   Future policy
benefits are comprised mainly of liabilities for life-contingent income annuities, supplemental contracts with and without life contingencies, liabilities for Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits ( GMDBs ) included in certain annuity
contracts, and a certain portion of guaranteed living benefits. See    Variable Annuity Guarantees.        Corporate Benefit Funding.   Liabilities are primarily related to payout annuities, including pension closeouts and structured settlement annuities. There is no interest rate crediting
flexibility on these liabilities. A sustained low interest rate environment could negatively impact earnings as a result, however, the Company has employed various asset/liability management strategies, including the use of various derivative
positions, primarily interest rate floors and interest rate swaps, to mitigate the risks associated with such a scenario.   
         162

Table of Contents  

    Auto   Home.   Future policy benefits include
liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses for property and casualty insurance and represent the amount estimated for claims that have been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not reported. Liabilities for unpaid claims are
estimated based upon assumptions such as rates of claim frequencies, levels of severities, inflation, judicial trends, legislative changes or regulatory decisions. Assumptions are based upon the Company s historical experience and analyses of
historical development patterns of the relationship of loss adjustment expenses to losses for each line of business, and consider the effects of current developments, anticipated trends and risk management programs, reduced for anticipated salvage
and subrogation.       Japan and Other International Regions .  Future policy benefits are held
primarily for traditional life and accident and health contracts in Japan, Asia Pacific and immediate annuities in Latin America. They are also held for total return pass-thru provisions included in certain universal life and savings products mainly
in Japan and Latin America, and traditional life, endowment and annuity contracts sold in various countries in Asia Pacific. They also include certain liabilities for variable annuity guarantees of minimum death benefits, and longevity guarantees
sold in Japan and Asia Pacific. Finally, in Europe and the Middle East, they also include unearned premium liabilities established for credit insurance contracts covering death, disability and involuntary loss of employment, as well as traditional
life, accident and health and endowment contracts. Factors impacting these liabilities include sustained periods of lower yields than rates established at issue, lower than expected asset reinvestment rates, actual lapses resulting in lower than
expected income, asset impairments, and actual mortality resulting in higher than expected benefit payments. The Company mitigates its risks by implementing an asset/liability matching policy and through the development of periodic experience
studies. See    Variable Annuity Guarantees.       Estimates for the liabilities for unpaid claims
and claim expenses are reset as actuarial indications change and these changes in the liability are reflected in the current results of operation as either favorable or unfavorable development of prior year losses.   
   Corporate   Other.   Future policy benefits primarily include liabilities for quota-share
reinsurance agreements for certain LTC and workers  compensation business written by MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut ( MICC ), prior to its acquisition by MetLife, Inc. These are run-off businesses that have been included
within Corporate   Other since the acquisition of MICC.        Policyholder Account Balances     
  PABs are generally equal to the account value, which includes accrued interest credited, but exclude the impact of any
applicable surrender charge that may be incurred upon surrender. See Notes 1 and 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.   
   Insurance Products.   PABs are held for death benefit disbursement retained asset accounts, universal
life policies, the fixed account of variable life insurance policies, specialized life insurance products for benefit programs and general account universal life policies. PABs are credited interest at a rate set by the Company, which are influenced
by current market rates. The majority of the PABs have a guaranteed minimum credited rate between 0.5% and 6.0%. A sustained low interest rate environment could negatively impact earnings as a result of the minimum credited rate guarantees. The
Company has various derivative positions, primarily interest rate floors, to partially mitigate the risks associated with such a scenario.       Retirement Products.   PABs are held for fixed deferred annuities and the fixed account portion of variable annuities, for certain income annuities, and for certain portions of guaranteed
benefits. PABs are credited interest at a rate set by the Company. Credited rates for deferred annuities are influenced by current market rates, and most of these contracts have a minimum guaranteed rate between 1.0% and 4.0%. See   
Variable Annuity Guarantees.        Corporate Benefit Funding.   PABs are comprised of funding
agreements. Interest crediting rates vary by type of contract, and can be fixed or variable. Variable interest crediting rates are generally tied to an external index,   
         163

Table of Contents  

most commonly (1-month or 3-month) LIBOR. MetLife is exposed to interest rate risks, and foreign exchange risk when guaranteeing payment of interest and return of principal at the contractual
maturity date. The Company may invest in floating rate assets, or enter into floating rate swaps, also tied to external indices, as well as caps to mitigate the impact of changes in market interest rates. The Company also mitigates its risks by
implementing an asset/liability matching policy and seeks to hedge all foreign currency risk through the use of foreign currency hedges, including cross currency swaps.   
   Japan and Other International Regions.   PABs are held largely for fixed income retirement and savings
plans in Japan and Latin America and to a lesser degree, amounts for unit-linked-type funds in certain countries across all regions that do not meet the GAAP definition of separate accounts. Also included are certain liabilities for retirement and
savings products sold in certain countries in Japan and Asia Pacific that generally are sold with minimum credited rate guarantees. Liabilities for guarantees on certain variable annuities in Japan and Asia Pacific are established in accordance with
derivatives and hedging guidance and are also included within PABs. These liabilities are generally impacted by sustained periods of low interest rates, where there are interest rate guarantees. The Company mitigates its risks by implementing an
asset/liability matching policy and by hedging its variable annuity guarantees. Liabilities for unit-linked-type funds are impacted by changes in the fair value of the associated underlying investments, as the return on assets is generally passed
directly to the policyholder. See    Variable Annuity Guarantees.         Variable Annuity Guarantees
       The Company issues, directly and through assumed reinsurance, certain variable annuity products with
guaranteed minimum benefits that provide the policyholder a minimum return based on their initial deposit (i.e., the benefit base) less withdrawals. See Notes 1 and 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
     The net amount at risk ( NAR ) for guarantees can change significantly during periods of sizable
and sustained shifts in equity market performance, increased equity volatility, or changes in interest rates. The NAR disclosed in Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements represents management s estimate of the current
value of the benefits under these guarantees if they were all exercised simultaneously at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. However, there are features, such as deferral periods and benefits requiring annuitization or death, that limit
the amount of benefits that will be payable in the near future.      Guarantees, including portions thereof,
accounted for as embedded derivatives, are recorded at estimated fair value and included in PABs. Guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives include guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits, the non life-contingent portion of guaranteed
minimum withdrawal benefits ( GMWB ) and the portion of certain GMIB that do not require annuitization. For more detail on the determination of estimated fair value, see Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
     The table below contains the carrying value for guarantees included in PABs at:   
   
    Included in net derivative gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2011 and
2010 were gains (losses) of ($1.3) billion and ($269) million, respectively, in embedded derivatives related to the change in estimated fair   
         164

Table of Contents  

value of the guarantees. The carrying amount of guarantees accounted for at estimated fair value includes an adjustment for nonperformance risk. In connection with this adjustment, gains (losses)
of $1.8 billion and ($96) million are included in the gains (losses) of ($1.3) billion and ($269) million in net derivative gains (losses) for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
  The estimated fair value of guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives can change significantly during periods of
sizable and sustained shifts in equity market performance, equity volatility, interest rates or foreign exchange rates. Additionally, because the estimated fair value for guarantees accounted for at estimated fair value includes an adjustment for
nonperformance risk, a decrease in the Company s credit spreads could cause the value of these liabilities to increase. Conversely, a widening of the Company s credit spreads could cause the value of these liabilities to decrease. The
Company uses derivative instruments and reinsurance to mitigate the liability exposure, risk of loss and the volatility of net income associated with these liabilities. The derivative instruments used are primarily equity and treasury futures,
equity options and variance swaps, and interest rate swaps. The change in valuation arising from the nonperformance risk is not hedged.      The table below presents the estimated fair value of the derivatives hedging guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives:   
   
    Included in net derivative gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2011 and
2010 were gains (losses) of $3.2 billion and $113 million related to the change in estimated fair value of the above derivatives. Additionally, included in net derivative gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
were gains (losses) of $26 million and ($35) million, respectively, related to ceded reinsurance.   
  Guarantees, including portions thereof, have liabilities established that are included in future policy benefits.
Guarantees accounted for in this manner include GMDBs, the life-contingent portion of certain GMWB, and the portion of GMIB that require annuitization. These liabilities are accrued over the life of the contract in proportion to actual and future
expected policy assessments based on the level of guaranteed minimum benefits generated using multiple scenarios of separate account returns. The scenarios use best estimate assumptions consistent with those used to amortize deferred acquisition
costs. When current estimates of future benefits exceed those previously projected or when current estimates of future assessments are lower than those previously projected, liabilities will increase, resulting in a current period charge to net
income. The opposite result occurs when the current estimates of future benefits are lower than that previously projected or when current estimates of future assessments exceed those previously projected. At each reporting period, the Company
updates the actual amount of business remaining in-force, which impacts expected future assessments and the projection of estimated future benefits resulting in a current period charge or increase to earnings.   
         165

Table of Contents  

   The table below contains the carrying value for guarantees included in
future policy benefits at:       
    Included in policyholder benefits and claims for the year ended December 31, 2011 is
a charge of $394 million and for the year ended December 31, 2010 is a charge of $302 million, related to the respective change in liabilities for the above guarantees.   
  The carrying amount of guarantees accounted for as insurance liabilities can change significantly during periods of
sizable and sustained shifts in equity market performance, increased equity volatility, or changes in interest rates. The Company uses reinsurance in combination with derivative instruments to mitigate the liability exposure, risk of loss and the
volatility of net income associated with these liabilities. Derivative instruments used are primarily equity futures, treasury futures and interest rate swaps.      Included in policyholder benefits and claims associated with the hedging of the guarantees in future policy benefits for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were gains (losses) of
$86 million and $8 million, respectively, related to reinsurance agreements containing embedded derivatives carried at estimated fair value and gains (losses) of ($87) million and ($275) million, respectively, related to
freestanding derivatives.      While the Company believes that the hedging strategies employed for guarantees
included in both PABs and in future policy benefits, as well as other management actions, have mitigated the risks related to these benefits, the Company remains liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that reinsurers or derivative
counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. Certain of the Company s reinsurance agreements and most derivative positions are collateralized and derivatives positions are subject to master netting agreements, both of which, significantly
reduces the exposure to counterparty risk. In addition, the Company is subject to the risk that hedging and other management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events,
produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed. Lastly, because the valuation of the guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives includes an adjustment for nonperformance risk that is not hedged, changes in
the nonperformance risk may result in significant volatility in net income.        Other Policy-related Balances
       Other policy-related balances include policy and contract claims, unearned revenue liabilities,
premiums received in advance, policyholder dividends due and unpaid, and policyholder dividends left on deposit. See Notes 1 and 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.   
    Policyholder Dividends Payable        Policyholder dividends payable consists of liabilities related to dividends payable in the following calendar year on participating policies.   
   Liquidity and Capital Resources        Overview       Our business and results of operations are
materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the global economy. Stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in global capital markets, particular markets, or financial asset classes can have an adverse effect on us, in
part because we have a large investment portfolio   
         166

Table of Contents  

and our insurance liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. The global economy and markets are still affected by a period of significant stress that began in the second half of 2007.
This disruption adversely affected the financial services sector, in particular, and global capital markets. Consequently, financial institutions paid higher spreads over benchmark U.S. Treasury securities than before the market disruption
began.      Beginning in 2010 and continuing throughout 2011, concerns increased about capital markets and the
solvency of certain European Union member states and of financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by these countries. The Japanese economy, to which we face substantial exposure given our operations
there, was significantly negatively impacted by the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami. Disruptions to the Japanese economy are having, and will continue to have, negative impacts on the overall global economy, not all of which can be foreseen.
Although the August 2011 downgrade by S P of U.S. Treasury securities initially had an adverse effect on financial markets, the extent of the longer-term impact cannot be predicted. In November 2011, Fitch warned that it may in the future
downgrade the U.S. credit rating unless action is taken to reduce the national debt of the U.S. It is possible that the August 2011 S P downgrade and any future downgrades, as well as continued concerns about U.S. fiscal policy and the
trajectory of the national debt of the U.S., could have severe repercussions to the U.S. and global credit and financial markets, could further exacerbate concerns over sovereign debt of other countries and could disrupt economic activity in the
U.S. and elsewhere. All of these factors could affect the Company s ability to meet liquidity needs and obtain capital. See    Industry Trends,     Investments   Current Environment  and  Risk Factors
  Concerns Over U.S. Fiscal Policy and the Trajectory of the National Debt of the U.S., as well as Rating Agency Downgrades of U.S. Treasury Securities, Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.         Liquidity Management     
  Based upon the strength of its franchise, diversification of its businesses and strong financial fundamentals, we
continue to believe the Company has ample liquidity to meet business requirements under current market conditions and unlikely but reasonably possible stress scenarios. The Company s short-term liquidity position includes cash and cash
equivalents and short-term investments, excluding: (i) cash collateral received under the Company s securities lending program that has been reinvested in cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and publicly-traded securities,
and (ii) cash collateral received from counterparties in connection with derivative instruments. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company s short-term liquidity position was $16.2 billion and $17.6 billion, respectively. We
continuously monitor and adjust our liquidity and capital plans for MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries in light of changing needs and opportunities. See    Investments   Current Environment.    
    Capital Management        The Company has established several senior management committees as part of its capital management process. These committees, including the Capital Management Committee and the Enterprise Risk Committee
(comprised of members of senior management, including MetLife, Inc. s Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Chief Risk Officer and, in the case of the Enterprise Risk Committee, MetLife, Inc. s Chief Investment Officer), regularly review
actual and projected capital levels (under a variety of scenarios including stress scenarios) and MetLife s capital plan in accordance with its capital policy.   
  MetLife s Board and senior management are directly involved in the development and maintenance of MetLife s
capital policy. The capital policy sets forth, among other things, minimum and target capital levels and the governance of the capital management process. All capital actions, including proposed changes to the capital plan, capital targets or
capital policy, are reviewed by the Finance and Risk Committee of the Board prior to obtaining full Board approval. The Board approves the capital policy and the annual capital plan and authorizes capital actions, as required.   
  MetLife s 2012 capital plan, as submitted to the Federal Reserve for approval in January 2012 as part of the Federal
Reserve Board s 2012 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review, was created in accordance with MetLife s capital policy. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Financial Holding Company Regulation.    
         167

Table of Contents  

    The Company         Liquidity        Liquidity refers to a company s
ability to generate adequate amounts of cash to meet its needs. Liquidity needs are determined from a rolling six-month forecast by portfolio of investment assets and are monitored daily. Asset mix and maturities are adjusted based on the forecast.
Cash flow testing and stress testing provide additional perspectives on liquidity, which include various scenarios of the potential risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal. The Company includes provisions limiting withdrawal rights
on many of its products, including general account institutional pension products (generally group annuities, including funding agreements, and certain deposit fund liabilities) sold to employee benefit plan sponsors. Certain of these provisions
prevent the customer from making withdrawals prior to the maturity date of the product.      In the event of
significant cash requirements beyond anticipated liquidity needs, the Company has various alternatives available depending on market conditions and the amount and timing of the liquidity need. These options include cash flows from operations, the
sale of liquid assets, global funding sources and various credit facilities.      Under certain stressful market
and economic conditions, the Company s access to, or cost of, liquidity may deteriorate. If the Company requires significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of anticipated cash requirements or is required to post or return cash
collateral in connection with its investment portfolio, derivatives transactions or securities lending program, the Company may have difficulty selling investment assets in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than the Company otherwise
would have been able to realize, or both. In addition, in the event of such forced sale, accounting guidance require the recognition of a loss for certain securities in an unrealized loss position and may require the impairment of other securities
based upon the Company s ability to hold such securities, which may negatively impact the Company s financial condition. See  Risk Factors   Some of Our Investments Are Relatively Illiquid and Are in Asset Classes That Have Been
Experiencing Significant Market Valuation Fluctuations.       In extreme circumstances, all general account
assets within a particular legal entity   other than those which may have been pledged to a specific purpose   are available to fund obligations of the general account of that legal entity.   
    Capital        The Company s capital position is managed to maintain its financial strength and credit ratings and is supported by its ability to generate strong cash flows at the operating companies, borrow funds
at competitive rates and raise additional capital to meet its operating and growth needs.      The Company was
able to issue new debt and remarket outstanding debt during the difficult market conditions prevailing in the second half of 2008 and early 2009, as well as during the rebound and recovery periods beginning in the second quarter of 2009 and
continuing into 2010. The increase in credit spreads experienced during the crisis resulted in an increase in the cost of capital, as well as increases in facility fees. Most recently, as a result of reductions in interest rates and credit spreads,
the Company s interest expense and dividends on floating rate securities have been lower.      Despite the
still unsettled financial markets, the Company also raised new capital from successful offerings of MetLife, Inc. s common stock in August 2010 and March 2011. The August 2010 offering provided financing for the Acquisition and the March 2011
offering provided financing for the repurchase from AM Holdings of MetLife, Inc. s Convertible Preferred Stock that was issued in connection with the Acquisition. See    The Company   Liquidity and Capital
Sources   Convertible Preferred Stock  and    Common Stock.    
         168

Table of Contents  

    Rating Agencies.  Rating agencies assign insurer financial
strength ratings to MetLife, Inc. s domestic life insurance subsidiaries and credit ratings to MetLife, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries. The level and composition of regulatory capital at the subsidiary level and equity capital of the
Company are among the many factors considered in determining the Company s insurer financial strength and credit ratings. Each agency has its own capital adequacy evaluation methodology, and assessments are generally based on a combination of
factors. In addition to heightening the level of scrutiny that they apply to insurance companies, rating agencies have increased and may continue to increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, may request additional information from
the companies that they rate and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels.   
  A downgrade in the credit or insurer financial strength ratings of MetLife, Inc. or its subsidiaries would likely impact
the cost and availability of financing for MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries and result in additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, which are eligible to be satisfied in cash or by posting securities
held by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements.       Statutory Capital and Dividends.  Our
insurance subsidiaries have statutory surplus well above levels to meet current regulatory requirements.   
  Except for American Life, RBC requirements are used as minimum capital requirements by the NAIC and the state insurance
departments to identify companies that merit regulatory action. RBC is based on a formula calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium and statutory reserve items. The formula takes into account the risk characteristics of the insurer,
including asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and business risk and is calculated on an annual basis. The formula is used as an early warning regulatory tool to identify possible inadequately capitalized insurers for purposes of
initiating regulatory action, and not as a means to rank insurers generally. These rules apply to each of MetLife, Inc. s domestic insurance subsidiaries. State insurance laws provide insurance regulators the authority to require various
actions by, or take various actions against, insurers whose total adjusted capital does not meet or exceed certain RBC levels. At the date of the most recent annual statutory financial statements filed with insurance regulators, the total adjusted
capital of each of these subsidiaries was in excess of each of those RBC levels.      American Life does not
conduct insurance business in Delaware or any other domestic state and, as such, is exempt from RBC requirements by Delaware law. In addition to Delaware, American Life operations are regulated by applicable authorities of the countries in which the
company operates and are subject to capital and solvency requirements in those countries.      The amount of
dividends that our insurance subsidiaries can pay to MetLife, Inc. or other parent entities is constrained by the amount of surplus we hold to maintain our ratings and provides an additional margin for risk protection and investment in our
businesses. We proactively take actions to maintain capital consistent with these ratings objectives, which may include adjusting dividend amounts and deploying financial resources from internal or external sources of capital. Certain of these
activities may require regulatory approval. Furthermore, the payment of dividends and other distributions to MetLife, Inc. and other parent entities by their respective insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. See
 Business   U.S. Regulation   Insurance Regulation,   Business   International Regulation,     MetLife, Inc.   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Dividends from Subsidiaries 
and Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         169

Table of Contents  

    Summary of Primary Sources and Uses of Liquidity and
Capital.  The Company s primary sources and uses of liquidity and capital are summarized as follows:       
 
         170

Table of Contents  

     Liquidity and Capital Sources     
   Cash Flows from Operations.  The Company s principal cash inflows from its insurance activities come from
insurance premiums, annuity considerations and deposit funds. A primary liquidity concern with respect to these cash inflows is the risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal. See    The Company   Liquidity and
Capital Uses   Contractual Obligations.        Cash Flows from Investments.  The
Company s principal cash inflows from its investment activities come from repayments of principal, proceeds from maturities, sales of invested assets, settlements of freestanding derivatives and net investment income. The primary liquidity
concerns with respect to these cash inflows are the risk of default by debtors and market disruption. The Company closely monitors and manages these risks through its credit risk management process.   
   Liquid Assets.  An integral part of the Company s liquidity management is the amount of liquid assets it
holds. Liquid assets include cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and publicly-traded securities, excluding: (i) cash collateral received under the Company s securities lending program that has been reinvested in cash and cash
equivalents, short-term investments and publicly-traded securities; (ii) cash collateral received from counterparties in connection with derivative instruments; (iii) cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and securities on
deposit with regulatory agencies; and (iv) securities held in trust in support of collateral financing arrangements and pledged in support of debt and funding agreements. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had $258.9 billion
and $245.7 billion, respectively, in liquid assets. For further discussion of invested assets on deposit with regulatory agencies, held in trust in support of collateral financing arrangements and pledged in support of debt and funding
agreements, see     Investments   Invested Assets on Deposit, Held in Trust and Pledged as Collateral.        Dispositions . Net cash proceeds from dispositions during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $449 million, $0 and $130 million, respectively. See Note 2 of the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding certain of these dispositions.   
   Global Funding Sources.  Liquidity is provided by a variety of short-term instruments, including funding
agreements, credit facilities and commercial paper. Capital is provided by a variety of instruments, including short-term and long-term debt, preferred securities, junior subordinated debt securities and equity and equity-linked securities. The
diversity of the Company s funding sources enhances funding flexibility, limits dependence on any one market or source of funds and generally lowers the cost of funds. The Company s global funding sources include:   

MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Funding, Inc. ( MetLife Funding ) each have commercial paper programs supported by $4.0 billion in general
corporate credit facilities (see     The Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Credit and Committed Facilities ). MetLife Funding, a subsidiary of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ), serves
as a centralized finance unit for the Company. MetLife Funding raises cash from its commercial paper program and uses the proceeds to extend loans, through MetLife Credit Corp., another subsidiary of MLIC, to MetLife, Inc., MLIC and other affiliates
in order to enhance the financial flexibility and liquidity of these companies. Outstanding balances for the commercial paper program fluctuate in line with changes to affiliates  financing arrangements. Pursuant to a support agreement, MLIC
has agreed to cause MetLife Funding to have a tangible net worth of at least one dollar. At both December 31, 2011 and 2010, MetLife Funding had a tangible net worth of $12 million. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, MetLife Funding had
total outstanding liabilities for its commercial paper program, including accrued interest payable, of $101 million and $102 million, respectively.      

MetLife Bank is a depository institution that is approved to use the FRB of NY Discount Window borrowing privileges. To utilize these privileges,
MetLife Bank has pledged qualifying loans and investment securities to the FRB of NY as collateral. At both December 31, 2011 and 2010, MetLife Bank had no liability for advances from the FRB of NY under this facility. For further discussion of
MetLife, Inc. s status as a bank holding company, see    MetLife, Inc.   Capital.       
         171

Table of Contents  

MetLife Bank has a cash need to fund residential mortgage loans that it originates and holds generally for a relatively short period before selling
to one of the government-sponsored enterprises such as FNMA or FHLMC. The outstanding volume of residential mortgage originations varies from month to month and is cyclical within a month. To meet the variable funding requirements from this mortgage
activity, as well as to increase overall liquidity from time to time, MetLife Bank takes advantage of short-term collateralized borrowing opportunities with the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York ( FHLB of NY ). MetLife Bank has entered
into advances agreements with the FHLB of NY whereby MetLife Bank has received cash advances and under which the FHLB of NY has been granted a blanket lien on certain of MetLife Bank s residential mortgage loans, mortgage loans held-for-sale,
commercial mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities to collateralize MetLife Bank s repayment obligations. Upon any event of default by MetLife Bank, the FHLB of NY s recovery is limited to the amount of MetLife Bank s liability
under the advances agreements. MetLife Bank has received advances from the FHLB of NY on both short-term and long-term bases, with a total liability of $4.8 billion and $3.8 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As a
result of the recently announced exit from MetLife Bank s forward mortgage origination business, MetLife Bank s cash need to fund residential mortgage loans will be reduced. MetLife Bank also intends to discontinue entering into advances
agreements with the FHLB of NY and intends to effect a transfer of any outstanding advances to MLIC in 2012. Additionally, in connection with the MetLife Bank Events and the transfer of the FHLB of NY advances, there may be timing differences in
MetLife Bank s cash flows giving rise to short-term liquidity needs. Should these needs arise, the Company will provide MetLife Bank with temporary liquidity support through a possible combination of internally and externally sourced funds. See
    MetLife, Inc.   Capital.           

The Company issues fixed and floating rate funding agreements, which are denominated in either U.S. dollars or foreign currencies, to certain
special purpose entities ( SPEs ) that have issued either debt securities or commercial paper for which payment of interest and principal is secured by such funding agreements. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
the Company issued $39.9 billion, $34.1 billion and $28.6 billion, respectively, and repaid $41.6 billion, $30.9 billion and $32.0 billion, respectively, of such funding agreements. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, funding agreements outstanding,
which are included in PABs, were $25.5 billion and $27.2 billion, respectively. See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      

The Company also had obligations under funding agreements with the FHLB of NY of $11.7 billion and $12.6 billion at December 31, 2011
and 2010, respectively, for MLIC, which are included in PABs. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company issued $7.4 billion, $10.8 billion and $16.7 billion, respectively, and repaid $8.3 billion, $11.8 billion and
$18.1 billion, respectively, of such funding agreements. See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The liability for outstanding advances agreements entered into by MetLife Bank is expected to be transferred to MLIC in
2012 under newly executed funding agreements. MetLife Bank will transfer an agreed upon amount of cash as part of such transfer and the liability will be included in PABs for MLIC.      

The Company had obligations under funding agreements with the FHLB of Des Moines of $220 million for MetLife Investors Insurance Company
( MLIIC ) and $475 million for General American Life Insurance Company ( GALIC ) at December 31, 2011, which are included in PABs. There were no funding agreements with the FHLB of Des Moines at December 31, 2010.
During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company issued $295 million and repaid $75 million of such funding agreements for MLIIC. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company issued $700 million and repaid $225 million of such
funding agreements for GALIC. See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      
         172

Table of Contents  

MLIC and MICC have each issued funding agreements to the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation ( Farmer Mac ) and to certain SPEs that
have issued debt securities for which payment of interest and principal is secured by such funding agreements; such debt securities are also guaranteed as to payment of interest and principal by Farmer Mac. The obligations under all such funding
agreements are secured by a pledge of certain eligible agricultural real estate mortgage loans and may, under certain circumstances, be secured by other qualified collateral. The amount of the Company s liability for funding agreements issued
was $2.8 billion at both December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which is included in PABs. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company issued $1.5 billion, $250 million and $0, respectively, and repaid $1.5
billion, $0 and $0, respectively, of such funding agreements. See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.          Outstanding Debt.  The following table summarizes the outstanding debt of the Company at:       
     
     Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings. 
During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, MetLife Bank received advances related to long-term borrowings totaling $1.3 billion, $2.1 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, from the FHLB of NY. During the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, MetLife Bank received advances related to short-term borrowings totaling $10.1 billion, $12.5 billion and $26.3 billion, respectively, from the FHLB of NY.   
  In connection with the financing of the Acquisition (see Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements), in November 2010, MetLife, Inc. issued to AM Holdings $3.0 billion in three series of debt securities (the  Series C Debt Securities,  the  Series D Debt Securities  and the  Series E Debt
Securities,  and, together, the  Debt Securities ), which constitute a part of the MetLife, Inc. common equity units (the  Equity Units ) more fully described in Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements. The Debt Securities are subject to remarketing, initially bear interest at 1.56%, 1.92% and 2.46%, respectively (an average rate of 1.98%), and carry initial maturity dates of June 15, 2023, June 15, 2024 and June 15,
2045, respectively. The interest rates will be reset in connection with the successful remarketings of the Debt Securities. Prior to the first scheduled attempted remarketing of the Series C Debt Securities, such Debt Securities will be divided
into two tranches equal in principal amount with maturity dates of June 15, 2018 and June 15, 2023. Prior to the first scheduled attempted remarketing of the Series E Debt Securities, such Debt Securities will be divided into two
tranches equal in principal amount with maturity dates of June 15, 2018 and June 15, 2045.      In
August 2010, in anticipation of the Acquisition, MetLife, Inc. issued senior notes as follows:       

$250 million floating rate senior notes due August 6, 2013, which bear interest at a rate equal to three-month LIBOR, reset quarterly,
plus 1.25%, payable quarterly.      
         173

Table of Contents  

   In connection with these offerings, MetLife, Inc. incurred $15 million
of issuance costs which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized over the terms of the senior notes.      In July 2009, MetLife, Inc. issued $500 million of junior subordinated debt securities with a final maturity of August 2069. Interest is payable semi-annually at a fixed rate of 10.75% up to, but not
including, August 1, 2039, the scheduled redemption date. In the event the debt securities are not redeemed on or before the scheduled redemption date, interest will accrue at an annual rate of three-month LIBOR plus a margin equal to 7.548%,
payable quarterly in arrears. In connection with the offering, MetLife, Inc. incurred $5 million of issuance costs which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized over the term of the securities. See
Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the terms of the junior subordinated debt securities.      In May 2009, MetLife, Inc. issued $1.3 billion of senior notes due June 1, 2016. The senior notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.75%, payable semi-annually. In connection with the offering,
MetLife, Inc. incurred $6 million of issuance costs which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized over the term of the senior notes.   
  In March 2009, MetLife, Inc. issued $397 million of floating rate senior notes due June 2012 under the FDIC s
Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. The senior notes bear interest at a rate equal to three-month LIBOR, reset quarterly, plus 0.32%. The senior notes are not redeemable prior to their maturity. In connection with the offering, MetLife, Inc.
incurred $15 million of issuance costs which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized over the term of the senior notes.   
  In February 2009, MetLife, Inc. remarketed its existing $1.0 billion 4.91% Series B junior subordinated debt
securities as 7.717% senior debt securities, Series B, due 2019. Interest on these senior debt securities is payable semi-annually. See     The Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Remarketing of Junior
Subordinated Debt Securities and Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts.        Collateral Financing
Arrangements.  As described more fully in Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements:       

MetLife, Inc., in connection with the collateral financing arrangement associated with MetLife Reinsurance Company of Charleston s
( MRC ) reinsurance of the closed block liabilities, entered into an agreement in 2007 with an unaffiliated financial institution that referenced the $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of 35-year surplus notes by MRC. Under the
agreement, MetLife, Inc. is entitled to the interest paid by MRC on the surplus notes of three-month LIBOR plus 0.55% in exchange for the payment of three-month LIBOR plus 1.12%, payable quarterly on such amount as adjusted, as described below.
        Under this agreement, MetLife, Inc. may also be required to pledge collateral or make
payments to the unaffiliated financial institution related to any decline in the estimated fair value of the surplus notes. Any such payments would be accounted for as a receivable and included in other assets on the Company s consolidated
balance sheets and would not reduce the principal amount outstanding of the surplus notes. Such payments would, however, reduce the amount of interest payments due from MetLife, Inc. under the agreement. Any payment received from the unaffiliated
financial institution would reduce the receivable by an amount equal to such payment and would also increase the amount of interest payments due from MetLife, Inc. under the agreement. In addition, the unaffiliated financial institution may be
required to pledge collateral to MetLife, Inc. related to any increase in the estimated fair value of the surplus notes. MetLife, Inc. may also be required to make a payment to the unaffiliated financial institution in connection with any early
termination of this agreement.      In December 2011, following regulatory approval, MRC repurchased and canceled
$650 million in aggregate principal amount of the surplus notes (the  Partial Repurchase ). Payments made by the Company in December 2011 associated with the Partial Repurchase, which also included payments made
  
         174

Table of Contents  

to the unaffiliated financial institution, totaled $650 million, exclusive of accrued interest on the surplus notes. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the amount of the surplus notes
outstanding was $1.9 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively.      At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the amount
of the receivable from the unaffiliated financial institution was $241 million and $425 million, respectively. In June 2011, MetLife, Inc. received $100 million from the unaffiliated financial institution related to an increase in the estimated fair
value of the surplus notes. No payments were made or received by MetLife, Inc. during 2010. During 2009, on a net basis, MetLife, Inc. received $375 million from the unaffiliated financial institution related to changes in the estimated fair value
of the surplus notes.      In addition, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, MetLife, Inc. had pledged collateral
with an estimated fair value of $125 million and $49 million, respectively, to the unaffiliated financial institution.       

MetLife, Inc., in connection with the collateral financing arrangement associated with MetLife Reinsurance Company of South Carolina s
( MRSC ) reinsurance of universal life secondary guarantees, entered into an agreement in 2007 with an unaffiliated financial institution under which MetLife, Inc. is entitled to the return on the investment portfolio held by trusts
established in connection with this collateral financing arrangement in exchange for the payment of a stated rate of return to the unaffiliated financial institution of three-month LIBOR plus 0.70%, payable quarterly. The collateral financing
agreement may be extended by agreement of MetLife, Inc. and the unaffiliated financial institution on each anniversary of the closing. MetLife, Inc. may also be required to make payments to the unaffiliated financial institution, for deposit into
the trusts, related to any decline in the estimated fair value of the assets held by the trusts, as well as amounts outstanding upon maturity or early termination of the collateral financing arrangement. During 2011 and 2010, no payments were made
or received by MetLife, Inc. During 2009, MetLife, Inc. contributed $360 million, as a result of declines in the estimated fair value of the assets in the trusts. Cumulatively, since May 2007, MetLife, Inc. has contributed a total of
$680 million as a result of declines in the estimated fair value of the assets in the trusts, all of which was deposited into the trusts.      
  In addition, MetLife, Inc. may be required to pledge collateral to the unaffiliated financial institution under this
agreement. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, MetLife, Inc. had pledged $92 million and $63 million under the agreement, respectively.       Remarketing of Junior Subordinated Debt Securities and Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts.  In February 2009, MetLife, Inc. closed the remarketing of the Series B portion of its junior
subordinated debt securities originally issued in 2005. The Series B junior subordinated debt securities were modified as permitted by their terms to be 7.717% senior debt securities, Series B, due February 15, 2019. MetLife,
Inc. did not receive any proceeds from the remarketing. The subsequent settlement of the stock purchase contracts occurred on February 17, 2009, providing proceeds to MetLife, Inc. of $1.0 billion in exchange for shares of MetLife,
Inc. s common stock. MetLife, Inc. delivered 24,343,154 shares of its newly issued common stock to settle the stock purchase contracts.       Credit and Committed Facilities.  The Company maintains unsecured credit facilities and committed facilities, which aggregated $4.0 billion and $12.4 billion, respectively, at
December 31, 2011. When drawn upon, these facilities bear interest at varying rates in accordance with the respective agreements.      The unsecured credit facilities are used for general corporate purposes, to support the borrowers  commercial paper programs and for the issuance of letters of credit. At December 31, 2011, the
Company had outstanding $3.1 billion in letters of credit and no drawdowns against these facilities. Remaining unused commitments were $916 million at December 31, 2011.   
  The committed facilities are used for collateral for certain of the Company s affiliated reinsurance liabilities. At
December 31, 2011, the Company had outstanding $5.4 billion in letters of credit and $2.8 billion in aggregate drawdowns against these facilities. Remaining unused commitments were $4.2 billion at December 31, 2011.   
         175

Table of Contents  

   See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
further discussion of these facilities.      We have no reason to believe that our lending counterparties will be
unable to fulfill their respective contractual obligations under these facilities. As commitments associated with letters of credit and financing arrangements may expire unused, these amounts do not necessarily reflect the Company s actual
future cash funding requirements.       Covenants.   Certain of the Company s debt
instruments, credit facilities and committed facilities contain various administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants. The Company believes it was in compliance with all such covenants at December 31, 2011.   
   Preferred Stock.   See     The Company   Liquidity and Capital Uses   Dividends 
for information on MetLife, Inc. s Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, and 6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B (collectively, the  Preferred Stock ).   
   Convertible Preferred Stock.   In November 2010, MetLife, Inc. issued to AM Holdings in connection with
the financing of the Acquisition 6,857,000 shares of Series B contingent convertible junior participating non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock (the  Convertible Preferred Stock ) convertible into approximately
68,570,000 shares (valued at $40.90 per share at the time of the Acquisition) of MetLife, Inc. s common stock (subject to anti-dilution adjustments) upon a favorable vote of MetLife, Inc. s common stockholders. On March 8, 2011,
MetLife, Inc. repurchased and canceled all of the Convertible Preferred Stock. See    Common Stock  below.       Common Stock.   In November 2010, MetLife, Inc. issued to AM Holdings in connection with the financing of the Acquisition 78,239,712 new shares of its common stock at $40.90 per share. On
March 8, 2011, AM Holdings sold the 78,239,712 shares of common stock in a public offering concurrent with a public offering by MetLife, Inc. of 68,570,000 new shares of its common stock at a price of $43.25 per share for gross proceeds of $3.0
billion. In connection with the offering of common stock, MetLife, Inc. incurred $16 million of issuance costs which have been recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in capital. The proceeds were used to repurchase the Convertible Preferred
Stock.      In August 2010, in connection with the financing of the Acquisition, MetLife, Inc. issued 86,250,000
new shares of its common stock at a price of $42.00 per share for gross proceeds of $3.6 billion. In connection with the offering of common stock, MetLife, Inc. incurred $94 million of issuance costs which have been recorded as a reduction of
additional paid-in-capital.      In connection with the remarketing of the junior subordinated debt securities, in
February 2009, MetLife, Inc. delivered 24,343,154 shares of its newly issued common stock to settle the stock purchase contracts. See    The Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Remarketing of Junior
Subordinated Debt Securities and Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts.       During the years ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010, 3,549,211 and 2,182,174 new shares of common stock were issued for $115 million and $74 million, respectively, to satisfy various stock option exercises and other stock-based awards. There were no new shares of
common stock issued to satisfy the various stock option exercises and other stock-based awards during the year ended December 31, 2009. There were no shares of common stock issued from treasury stock during the year ended December 31,
2011. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, 332,121 shares and 861,586 shares of common stock were issued from treasury stock for $18 million and $46 million, respectively, to satisfy various stock option
exercises and other stock-based awards.       Equity Units.  On the Acquisition Date, MetLife, Inc. issued to
AM Holdings in connection with the financing of the Acquisition $3.0 billion aggregate stated amount of Equity Units. On March 8, 2011, concurrently with the public offering of common stock by MetLife, Inc., AM Holdings sold all the Equity
Units in a public offering. The terms and conditions of the Equity Units were unaffected by the resulting transfers of ownership. The Equity   
         176

Table of Contents  

Units, which are mandatorily convertible securities, will initially consist of (i) purchase contracts obligating the holder to purchase a variable number of shares of MetLife, Inc. s
common stock on each of three specified future settlement dates (expected to be approximately two, three and four years after closing of the Acquisition) for a fixed amount per purchase contract (an aggregate of $1.0 billion on each settlement
date) and (ii) an interest in each of three series of Debt Securities of MetLife, Inc. The value of the purchase contracts at issuance of $247 million was calculated as the present value of the future contract payments and was recorded in
other liabilities. At future dates, the Series C, D and E Debt Securities will be subject to remarketing and sold to investors. Holders of the Equity Units who elect to include their Debt Securities in a remarketing can use the proceeds thereof
to meet their obligations under the purchase contracts.      See Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for further discussion of the Equity Units.        Liquidity and Capital Uses     
   Acquisitions.   Cash outflows for acquisitions during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
were $233 million and $7.2 billion, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2009, there were no cash outflows for acquisitions. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding certain of
these acquisitions.       Debt Repayments.   In December 2011, MetLife, Inc. repaid its $750
million senior note with an interest rate of 6.13%. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, MetLife Bank made repayments of $750 million, $349 million and $497 million, respectively, to the FHLB of NY related to
long-term borrowings. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, MetLife Bank made repayments to the FHLB of NY related to short-term borrowings of $9.7 billion, $12.9 billion and $26.4 billion, respectively. During
the year ended December 31, 2009, MetLife Bank made repayments of $21.2 billion to the FRB of NY and MICC made repayments of $300 million to the FHLB of Boston, each related to short-term borrowings.   
   Debt Repurchases.   We may from time to time seek to retire or purchase our outstanding debt through cash
purchases and/or exchanges for other securities, in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Any such repurchases or exchanges will be dependent upon several factors, including our liquidity requirements, contractual
restrictions, general market conditions, and applicable regulatory, legal and accounting factors. Whether or not to repurchase any debt and the size and timing of any such repurchases will be determined in the Company s discretion. In December
2011, following regulatory approval, the Company repurchased $650 million in aggregate principal amount of the surplus notes included in collateral financing arrangements.   
   Insurance Liabilities.   The Company s principal cash outflows primarily relate to the liabilities
associated with its various life insurance, property and casualty, annuity and group pension products, operating expenses and income tax, as well as principal and interest on its outstanding debt obligations. Liabilities arising from its insurance
activities primarily relate to benefit payments under the aforementioned products, as well as payments for policy surrenders, withdrawals and loans. For annuity or deposit type products, surrender or lapse product behavior differs somewhat by
segment. In the Retirement Products segment, which includes individual annuities, lapses and surrenders tend to occur in the normal course of business. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, general account surrenders and
withdrawals from annuity products were $4.1 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively. In Corporate Benefit Funding, which includes pension closeouts, bank-owned life insurance and other fixed annuity contracts, as well as funding agreements
(including funding agreements with the FHLB of NY, the FHLB of Des Moines and the FHLB of Boston) and other capital market products, most of the products offered have fixed maturities or fairly predictable surrenders or withdrawals. With regard to
Corporate Benefit Funding liabilities that provide customers with limited liquidity rights, at December 31, 2011 there were $2.4 billion of funding agreements and other capital market products that could be put back to the Company after a
period of notice. Of these liabilities, $535 million were subject to a notice period of 90 days. The remainder was subject to a notice period of five months or greater. An additional $188 million of Corporate Benefit Funding
liabilities were subject to credit ratings downgrade triggers that permit early termination subject to a notice period of 90 days. See     The Company   Liquidity and Capital Uses   Contractual Obligations. 
  
         177

Table of Contents  

    Dividends.   Th e  table below presents declaration,
record and payment dates, as well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the common stock:       

(1)  
    Includes dividends on convertible preferred stock issued in November 2010. See     The Company   Liquidity and Capital
Sources   Convertible Preferred Stock.          Common stock dividend decisions are
determined by MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors after taking into consideration factors such as the Company s current earnings, expected medium-term and long-term earnings, financial condition, regulatory capital position, and applicable
governmental regulations and policies. The payment of dividends and other distributions by MetLife, Inc. to its security holders is subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Financial Holding
Company Regulation  and Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      Information on
the declaration, record and payment dates, as well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for Preferred Stock is as follows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:   
   
     Share Repurchases.   At December 31, 2011, MetLife, Inc. had $1.3
billion remaining under its common stock repurchase program authorizations. See  Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  for further information relating to such
authorizations. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company did not repurchase any shares.      Under these authorizations, MetLife, Inc. may purchase its common stock from the MetLife Policyholder Trust, in the open market (including pursuant to the terms of a pre-set trading plan meeting the
requirements of Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) and in privately negotiated transactions. Any future common stock repurchases will be dependent upon several factors, including the Company s capital position, its
liquidity, its financial strength and credit ratings, general market conditions and the market price of MetLife, Inc. s common stock compared to management s assessment of the stock s underlying value and applicable regulatory
approvals, as well as other legal and accounting factors. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Financial Holding Company Regulation.    
         178

Table of Contents  

    Residential Mortgage Loans Held-for-Sale.   At
December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company held $15.2 billion and $3.3 billion, respectively, in residential mortgage loans held-for-sale. From time to time, MetLife Bank has an increased cash need to fund mortgage loans that it holds
generally for a relatively short period before selling to one of the government-sponsored enterprises such as FNMA or FHLMC. To meet these increased funding requirements, as well as to increase overall liquidity, MetLife Bank takes advantage of
collateralized borrowing opportunities with the FRB of NY and the FHLB of NY. For further detail on MetLife Bank s use of these funding sources, see     The Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Global Funding
Sources.  Securitized reverse residential mortgage loans were funded through issuance of GNMA securities, for which the corresponding liability at December 31, 2011 of $7.7 billion is included in other liabilities.   
   Investment and Other.   Additional cash outflows include those related to obligations of securities
lending activities, investments in real estate, limited partnerships and joint ventures, as well as litigation-related liabilities. Also, the Company pledges collateral to, and has collateral pledged to it by, counterparties under the Company s
current derivative transactions. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company was obligated to return cash collateral under its control of $9.5 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively. See    Investments   Derivative Financial
Instruments   Credit Risk.  With respect to derivative transactions with credit ratings downgrade triggers, a two-notch downgrade would have increased the Company s derivative collateral requirements by $83 million at
December 31, 2011. In addition, the Company has pledged collateral and has had collateral pledged to it, and may be required from time to time to pledge additional collateral or be entitled to have additional collateral pledged to it, in
connection with collateral financing arrangements related to the reinsurance of closed block liabilities and universal life secondary guarantee liabilities. See    The Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources  
Collateral Financing Arrangements.        Securities Lending.   The Company participates in a
securities lending program whereby blocks of securities, which are included in fixed maturity securities and short-term investments, are loaned to third parties, primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks. The Company obtains collateral, usually
cash, from the borrower, which must be returned to the borrower when the loaned securities are returned to the Company. Under the Company s securities lending program, the Company was liable for cash collateral under its control of
$24.2 billion and $24.6 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Of these amounts, $2.7 billion and $2.8 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, were on open, meaning that the related loaned security
could be returned to the Company on the next business day upon return of cash collateral. The estimated fair value of the securities on loan related to the cash collateral on open at December 31, 2011 was $2.7 billion, of which $2.6 billion
were U.S. Treasury and agency securities which, if put to the Company, can be immediately sold to satisfy the cash requirements.       Contractual Obligations.   The following table summarizes the Company s major contractual obligations at December 31, 2011:   

179

Table of Contents  

(1)  
    The contractual obligations have not been adjusted for businesses expected to be divested in 2012, which are categorized according to the future
timing of such obligations irrespective of the corresponding divestitures. See    MetLife, Inc.   Capital  and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      
   Future policy benefits    Future policy benefits include liabilities related to traditional whole life
policies, term life policies, pension closeout and other group annuity contracts, structured settlements, master terminal funding agreements, single premium immediate annuities, long-term disability policies, individual disability income policies,
LTC policies and property and casualty contracts. Included within future policy benefits are contracts where the Company is currently making payments and will continue to do so until the occurrence of a specific event, such as death, as well as
those where the timing of a portion of the payments has been determined by the contract. Also included are contracts where the Company is not currently making payments and will not make payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such as
death or illness, or where the occurrence of the payment triggering event, such as a surrender of a policy or contract, is outside the control of the Company. The Company has estimated the timing of the cash flows related to these contracts based on
historical experience, as well as its expectation of future payment patterns.      Liabilities related to
accounting conventions, or which are not contractually due, such as shadow liabilities, excess interest reserves and property and casualty loss adjustment expenses, of $4.6 billion have been excluded from amounts presented in the table above.
     Amounts presented in the table above, excluding those related to property and casualty contracts, represent
the estimated cash payments for benefits under such contracts including assumptions related to the receipt of future premiums and assumptions related to mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal, retirement, inflation, disability incidence,
disability terminations, policy loans and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective product type. Payments for case reserve liabilities and incurred but not reported liabilities associated with property and casualty contracts of $1.5
billion have been included using an estimate of the ultimate amount to be settled under the policies based upon historical payment patterns. The ultimate amount to be paid under property and casualty contracts is not determined until the Company
reaches a settlement with the claimant, which may vary significantly from the liability or contractual obligation presented above, especially as it relates to incurred but not reported liabilities. All estimated cash payments presented in the table
above are undiscounted as to interest, net of estimated future premiums on policies currently in-force and gross of any reinsurance recoverable. The more than five years category includes estimated payments due for periods extending for more than
100 years from the present date.      The sum of the estimated cash flows shown for all years in the table of
$317.3 billion exceeds the liability amount of $184.3 billion included on the consolidated balance sheet principally due to the time value of money, which accounts for at least 80% of the difference, as well as differences in assumptions,
most significantly mortality, between the date the liabilities were initially established and the current date.   
  For the majority of the Company s insurance operations, estimated contractual obligations for future policy benefits
and policyholder account balance liabilities as presented in the table above are derived from the annual asset adequacy analysis used to develop actuarial opinions of statutory reserve adequacy for state regulatory purposes. These cash flows are
materially representative of the cash flows under GAAP. (See    Policyholder account balances  below.)      Actual cash payments to policyholders may differ significantly from the liabilities as presented in the consolidated balance sheet and the estimated cash payments as presented in the table above due to
differences between actual experience and the assumptions used in the establishment of these liabilities and the estimation of these cash payments.   
         180

Table of Contents  

    Policyholder account balances    PABs include liabilities related
to conventional guaranteed interest contracts, guaranteed interest contracts associated with formal offering programs, funding agreements, individual and group annuities, total control accounts, individual and group universal life, variable
universal life and company-owned life insurance.      Included within PABs are contracts where the amount and
timing of the payment is essentially fixed and determinable. These amounts relate to policies where the Company is currently making payments and will continue to do so, as well as those where the timing of the payments has been determined by the
contract. Other contracts involve payment obligations where the timing of future payments is uncertain and where the Company is not currently making payments and will not make payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such as death, or
where the occurrence of the payment triggering event, such as a surrender of or partial withdrawal on a policy or deposit contract, is outside the control of the Company. The Company has estimated the timing of the cash flows related to these
contracts based on historical experience, as well as its expectation of future payment patterns.      Excess
interest reserves representing purchase accounting adjustments of $381 million, as well as $4.3 billion relating to embedded derivatives, have been excluded from amounts presented in the table above as they represent accounting conventions and
not contractual obligations.      Amounts presented in the table above represent the estimated cash payments to be
made to policyholders undiscounted as to interest and including assumptions related to the receipt of future premiums and deposits; withdrawals, including unscheduled or partial withdrawals; policy lapses; surrender charges; annuitization;
mortality; future interest credited; policy loans and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective product type. Such estimated cash payments are also presented net of estimated future premiums on policies currently in-force and gross of
any reinsurance recoverable. For obligations denominated in foreign currencies, cash payments have been estimated using current spot rates.      The sum of the estimated cash flows shown for all years in the table of $295.3 billion exceeds the liability amount of $217.7 billion included on the consolidated balance sheet principally due
to the time value of money, which accounts for at least 80% of the difference, as well as differences in assumptions between the date the liabilities were initially established and the current date. See the comments under    Future
policy benefits  above regarding the source and uncertainties associated with the estimation of the contractual obligations related to future policyholder benefits and PABs.   
   Other policyholder liabilities    Other policyholder liabilities are comprised of other policy-related
balances, policyholder dividends payable and the policyholder dividend obligation. Amounts included in the table above related to these balances are as follows:       

a.  
    Other policy-related balances includes liabilities for incurred but not reported claims and claims payable on group term life, long-term disability,
LTC and dental; policyholder dividends left on deposit and policyholder dividends due and unpaid related primarily to traditional life and group life and health; and premiums received in advance. Liabilities related to unearned revenue and negative
VOBA of $2.3 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively, have been excluded from the cash payments presented in the table above because they reflect accounting conventions and not contractual obligations. With the exception of policyholder
dividends left on deposit, and those items excluded as noted in the preceding sentence, the contractual obligation presented in the table above related to other policy-related balances is equal to the liability reflected in the consolidated balance
sheet. Such amounts are reported in the one year or less category due to the short-term nature of the liabilities. Contractual obligations on policyholder dividends left on deposit are projected based on assumptions of policyholder withdrawal
activity.      
         181

Table of Contents  

b.  
    Policyholder dividends payable consists of liabilities related to dividends payable in the following calendar year on participating policies. As
such, the contractual obligation related to policyholder dividends payable is presented in the table above in the one year or less category at the amount of the liability presented in the consolidated balance sheet.      

c.  
    The nature of the policyholder dividend obligation is described in Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Because the
exact timing and amount of the ultimate policyholder dividend obligation is subject to significant uncertainty and the amount of the policyholder dividend obligation is based upon a long-term projection of the performance of the closed block, we
have reflected the obligation at the amount of the liability, if any, presented in the consolidated balance sheet in the more than five years category. This was presented to reflect the long-duration of the liability and the uncertainty of the
ultimate cash payment.          Payables for collateral under securities loaned and other
transactions    The Company has accepted cash collateral in connection with securities lending and derivative transactions. As the securities lending transactions expire within the next year or the timing of the return of the collateral
is uncertain, the return of the collateral has been included in the one year or less category in the table above. The Company also holds non-cash collateral, which is not reflected as a liability in the consolidated balance sheet, of
$2.9 billion at December 31, 2011.       Bank deposits    Bank deposits of
$10.6 billion exceed the amount on the balance sheet of $10.5 billion due to the inclusion of estimated interest payments. Liquid deposits, including demand deposit accounts, money market accounts and savings accounts, are assumed to
mature at carrying value within one year. Certificates of deposit are assumed to pay all interest and principal at maturity.       Short-term debt, long-term debt, collateral financing arrangements and junior subordinated debt securities    Amounts presented in the table above for short-term debt, long-term debt,
collateral financing arrangements and junior subordinated debt securities differ from the balances presented on the consolidated balance sheet, as the amounts presented in the table above do not include premiums or discounts upon issuance or
purchase accounting fair value adjustments. The amounts presented above also include future interest on such obligations as described below.      Short-term debt consists of borrowings with original maturities of one year or less carrying fixed interest rates. The contractual obligation for short-term debt presented in the table above represents
the principal amounts due upon maturity plus the related future interest for the period from January 1, 2012 through maturity.      Long-term debt bears interest at fixed and variable interest rates through their respective maturity dates. Future interest on fixed rate debt was computed using the stated rate on the obligations for the
period from January 1, 2012 through maturity. Future interest on variable rate debt was computed using prevailing rates at December 31, 2011 and, as such, does not consider the impact of future rate movements. Long-term debt also includes
payments under capital lease obligations of $1 million, $6 million, $2 million and $28 million, in the one year or less, more than one year to three years, more than three years to five years and more than five years categories,
respectively. Long-term debt presented in the table above excludes $3.1 billion at December 31, 2011 of long-term debt relating to CSEs.      Collateral financing arrangements bear interest at fixed and variable interest rates through their respective maturity dates. Future interest on fixed rate debt was computed using the stated rate on the
obligations for the period from January 1, 2012 through maturity. Future interest on variable rate debt was computed using prevailing rates at December 31, 2011 and, as such, does not consider the impact of future rate movements. Pursuant
to these collateral financing arrangements, MetLife, Inc. may be required to deliver cash or pledge collateral to the respective unaffiliated financial institutions. See    The Company   Liquidity and Capital
Sources   Collateral Financing Arrangements.    
         182

Table of Contents  

   Junior subordinated debt securities bear interest at fixed interest rates
through their respective redemption dates. Future interest was computed using the stated rates on the obligations for the period from January 1, 2012 through the scheduled redemption dates, as it is the Company s expectation that the debt
will be redeemed at that time. Inclusion of interest payments on junior subordinated debt through the final maturity dates would increase the contractual obligation by $7.7 billion.   
   Commitments to lend funds    The Company commits to lend funds under mortgage loans, partnerships, bank
credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments. In the table above, the timing of the funding of mortgage loans and private corporate bond investments is based on the expiration dates of the corresponding commitments. As it
relates to commitments to lend funds to partnerships and under bank credit facilities, the Company anticipates that these amounts could be invested any time over the next five years; however, as the timing of the fulfillment of the obligation cannot
be predicted, such obligations are presented in the one year or less category in the table above. Commitments to fund bridge loans are short-term obligations and, as a result, are presented in the one year or less category in the table above. See
Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and    Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.        Operating leases    As a lessee, the Company has various operating leases, primarily for office space. Contractual provisions exist that could increase or accelerate those lease
obligations presented, including various leases with early buyouts and/or escalation clauses. However, the impact of any such transactions would not be material to the Company s financial position or results of operations. See Note 16 of the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Other    Other liabilities presented in the
table above are principally comprised of amounts due under reinsurance agreements, payables related to securities purchased but not yet settled, securities sold short, accrued interest on debt obligations, estimated fair value of derivative
obligations, deferred compensation arrangements, guaranty liabilities, the estimated fair value of forward stock purchase contracts, the liability related to securitized reverse residential mortgage loans, and general accruals and accounts payable
due under contractual obligations. If the timing of any of the other liabilities is sufficiently uncertain, the amounts are included within the one year or less category.   
  The other liabilities presented in the table above differ from the amount presented in the consolidated balance sheet by
$5.6 billion due primarily to the exclusion of items such as legal liabilities, pension and postretirement benefit obligations, taxes due other than income tax, unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest, accrued severance and
employee incentive compensation and other liabilities such as deferred gains and losses. Such items have been excluded from the table above as they represent accounting conventions or are not liabilities due under contractual obligations.
     The net funded status of the Company s pension and other postretirement liabilities included within
other liabilities has been excluded from the amounts presented in the table above. Rather, the amounts presented represent the discretionary contributions of $205 million expected to be made by the Company to the pension plan in 2012 and the
contributions of $109 million expected to be made by the Company to the postretirement benefit plans during 2012. Virtually all contributions to the pension and postretirement benefit plans are made by the insurance subsidiaries of MetLife,
Inc. with little impact on MetLife, Inc. s cash flows.      Excluded from the table above are unrecognized
tax benefits and related accrued interest of $679 million and $235 million, respectively, for which the Company cannot reliably determine the timing of payment. Current income tax payable is also excluded from the table.   
  Separate account liabilities are excluded from the table above. Generally, the separate account owner, rather than the
Company, bears the investment risk of these funds. The separate account assets are legally segregated and are not subject to the claims that arise out of any other business of the Company. Net deposits, net investment income and realized and
unrealized capital gains and losses on the separate accounts are fully offset   
         183

Table of Contents  

by corresponding amounts credited to contractholders whose liability is reflected with the separate account liabilities. Separate account liabilities are fully funded by cash flows from the
separate account assets and are set equal to the estimated fair value of separate account assets.      The Company
also enters into agreements to purchase goods and services in the normal course of business; however, these purchase obligations were not material to its consolidated results of operations or financial position at December 31, 2011.   
  Additionally, the Company has agreements in place for services it conducts, generally at cost, between subsidiaries
relating to insurance, reinsurance, loans and capitalization. Intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Intercompany transactions among insurance subsidiaries and affiliates have been approved by the appropriate insurance
regulators as required.       Support Agreements.  MetLife, Inc. and several of its subsidiaries (each,
an  Obligor ) are parties to various capital support commitments, guarantees and contingent reinsurance agreements with certain subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. Under these arrangements, each Obligor, with respect to the applicable entity,
has agreed to cause such entity to meet specified capital and surplus levels, has guaranteed certain contractual obligations or has agreed to provide, upon the occurrence of certain contingencies, reinsurance for such entity s insurance
liabilities. We anticipate that in the event that these arrangements place demands upon the Company, there will be sufficient liquidity and capital to enable the Company to meet anticipated demands. See    MetLife, Inc.  
Liquidity and Capital Uses   Support Agreements.        Litigation.  Putative or
certified class action litigation and other litigation, and claims and assessments against the Company, in addition to those discussed elsewhere herein and those otherwise provided for in the Company s consolidated financial statements, have
arisen in the course of the Company s business, including, but not limited to, in connection with its activities as an insurer, mortgage lending bank, employer, investor, investment advisor and taxpayer. Further, state insurance regulatory
authorities and other federal and state authorities regularly make inquiries and conduct investigations concerning the Company s compliance with applicable insurance and other laws and regulations.   
  The Company establishes liabilities for litigation and regulatory loss contingencies when it is probable that a loss has
been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. For material matters where a loss is believed to be reasonably possible but not probable, no accrual is made but the Company discloses the nature of the contingency and an
aggregate estimate of the reasonably possible range of loss in excess of amounts accrued, when such an estimate can be made. It is not possible to predict or determine the ultimate outcome of all pending investigations and legal proceedings. In some
of the matters referred to herein, very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, are sought. Although in light of these considerations, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain cases could have a material
adverse effect upon the Company s financial position, based on information currently known by the Company s management, in its opinion, the outcome of such pending investigations and legal proceedings are not likely to have such an effect.
However, given the large and/or indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse
effect on the Company s consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods.   
         184

Table of Contents  

    MetLife, Inc.    
    Capital         Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies and Financial Holding Companies.  MetLife, Inc. and its insured depository institution subsidiary, MetLife Bank, are subject to risk-based
and leverage capital guidelines issued by the federal banking regulatory agencies for banks and bank and financial holding companies. The federal banking regulatory agencies are required by law to take specific prompt corrective actions with respect
to institutions that do not meet minimum capital standards. As of their most recently filed reports with the federal banking regulatory agencies, all of MetLife, Inc. s and MetLife Bank s risk-based and leverage capital ratios met the
federal banking regulatory agencies,  well capitalized  standards. In addition to requirements which may be imposed in connection with the implementation of Dodd-Frank, such as the enhanced prudential standards under proposed Regulation
YY, if adopted in the U.S., Basel III will also lead to increased capital and liquidity requirements for bank holding companies, such as MetLife, Inc. See  Business   U.S. Regulation,     Industry Trends  and
 Risk Factors   Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth.    
  Once MetLife Bank has completely exited its depository business, MetLife, Inc. plans to terminate MetLife Bank s
FDIC insurance, putting MetLife, Inc. in a position to be able to deregister as a bank holding company. Upon completion of the foregoing, MetLife, Inc. will no longer be regulated as a bank holding company. However, if, in the future, MetLife, Inc.
is designated by the FSOC as a non-bank systemically important financial institution, it would once again be regulated by the Federal Reserve (including its capital requirements) and may be subject to enhanced supervision and prudential standards.
In October 2011, the FSOC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking outlining the process it will follow and the criteria it will use to assess whether a non-bank financial company should be so subject. If MetLife, Inc. meets the quantitative
thresholds set forth in the proposal, the FSOC will continue with a further analysis using qualitative and quantitative factors. For further information, see    Industry Trends.    
  The following table contains the RBC ratios and the regulatory requirements for MetLife, Inc., as a bank holding company,
and MetLife Bank:       MetLife, Inc.        RBC Ratios   Bank Holding Company        
     MetLife Bank        RBC Ratios   Bank        
 
         185

Table of Contents  

    Summary of Primary Sources and Uses of Liquidity and
Capital.  For information regarding the primary sources and uses of MetLife, Inc. s liquidity and capital, see    The Company   Capital   Summary of Primary Sources and Uses of Liquidity and
Capital.         Liquidity and Capital     
  Liquidity and capital are managed to preserve stable, reliable and cost-effective sources of cash to meet all current and
future financial obligations and are provided by a variety of sources, including a portfolio of liquid assets, a diversified mix of short- and long-term funding sources from the wholesale financial markets and the ability to borrow through credit
and committed facilities. MetLife, Inc. is an active participant in the global financial markets through which it obtains a significant amount of funding. These markets, which serve as cost-effective sources of funds, are critical components of
MetLife, Inc. s liquidity and capital management. Decisions to access these markets are based upon relative costs, prospective views of balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity profile and capital structure. A disruption in the financial
markets could limit MetLife, Inc. s access to liquidity.      MetLife, Inc. s ability to maintain
regular access to competitively priced wholesale funds is fostered by its current credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies. We view our capital ratios, credit quality, stable and diverse earnings streams, diversity of liquidity sources
and our liquidity monitoring procedures as critical to retaining such credit ratings. See    The Company   Capital   Rating Agencies.    
  Liquidity is monitored through the use of internal liquidity risk metrics, including the composition and level of the
liquid asset portfolio, timing differences in short-term cash flow obligations, access to the financial markets for capital and debt transactions and exposure to contingent draws on MetLife, Inc. s liquidity.   
    Liquidity and Capital Sources         Dividends from Subsidiaries.  MetLife, Inc. relies in part on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its cash requirements. MetLife, Inc. s insurance subsidiaries are subject to
regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends imposed by the regulators of their respective domiciles. The dividend limitation for U.S. insurance subsidiaries is generally based on the surplus to policyholders at the end of the
immediately preceding calendar year and statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year. Statutory accounting practices, as prescribed by insurance regulators of various states in which the Company conducts business,
differ in certain respects from accounting principles used in financial statements prepared in conformity with GAAP. The significant differences relate to the treatment of DAC, certain deferred income tax, required investment liabilities, statutory
reserve calculation assumptions, goodwill and surplus notes.      The table below sets forth the dividends
permitted to be paid by the respective insurance subsidiary without insurance regulatory approval and the respective dividends paid:       
 
         186

Table of Contents  

(1)  
    Reflects dividend amounts that may be paid during 2012 without prior regulatory approval. However, because dividend tests may be based on dividends
previously paid over rolling 12-month periods, if paid before a specified date during 2012, some or all of such dividends may require regulatory approval.      

(2)  
    All amounts paid, including those requiring regulatory approval.      

(3)  
    Reflects dividend amounts that could have been paid during the relevant year without prior regulatory approval.      

(5)  
    Reflects approximate dividend amounts permitted to be paid without prior regulatory approval.      

(6)  
    Reflects the respective dividends paid since the Acquisition Date. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(7)  
    Includes shares of an affiliate distributed to MetLife, Inc. as an in-kind dividend of $475 million.      
  In addition to the amounts presented in the table above, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, cash
dividends in the aggregate amount of $139 million, $0 and $215 million, respectively, were paid to MetLife, Inc. by certain of its other subsidiaries. Additionally, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, MetLife, Inc.
received cash of $771 million, $54 million and $0, respectively, representing returns of capital.      The
dividend capacity of our non-U.S. operations is subject to similar restrictions established by the local regulators. The non-U.S. regulatory regimes also commonly limit the dividend payments to the parent to a portion of the prior
year s statutory income, as determined by the local accounting principles. The regulators of our non-U.S. operations, including Japan s Financial Services Agency, may also limit or not permit profit repatriations or other transfers of
funds to the U.S. if such transfers are deemed to be detrimental to the solvency or financial strength of the non-U.S. operations, or for other reasons. Most of the non-U.S. subsidiaries are second tier subsidiaries which are owned by
various non-U.S. holding companies. The capital and rating considerations applicable to the first tier subsidiaries may also impact the dividend flow into MetLife, Inc.   
  The Company s management actively manages its target and excess capital levels and dividend flows on a proactive
basis and forecasts local capital positions as part of the financial planning cycle. The dividend capacity of certain U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries is also subject to business targets in excess of the minimum capital necessary to maintain
the desired rating or level of financial strength in the relevant market. Management of MetLife, Inc. cannot provide assurances that MetLife, Inc. s subsidiaries will have statutory earnings to support payment of dividends to MetLife, Inc. in
an amount sufficient to fund its cash requirements and pay cash dividends and that the applicable regulators will not disapprove any dividends that such subsidiaries must submit for approval. See Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.       Liquid Assets.  An integral part of MetLife, Inc. s liquidity
management is the amount of liquid assets it holds. Liquid assets include cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and publicly-traded securities, excluding: (i) cash collateral received under the Company s securities lending
program that has been reinvested in cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and publicly-traded securities; and (ii) cash collateral received from counterparties in connection with derivative instruments. At December 31, 2011 and
2010, MetLife, Inc. had $4.2 billion and $2.8 billion, respectively, in liquid assets. In addition, MetLife, Inc. has pledged collateral and has had collateral pledged to it, and may be required from time to time to pledge additional
collateral or be entitled to have additional collateral pledged to it. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, MetLife, Inc. had pledged $449 million and $362 million, respectively, of liquid assets under collateral support agreements.
  
         187

Table of Contents  

    Dispositions.  Cash proceeds from dispositions during the years
ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $180 million, $0 and $130 million, respectively. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding certain of these dispositions.   
   Global Funding Sources.  Liquidity is also provided by a variety of short-term instruments, including
commercial paper. Capital is provided by a variety of instruments, including medium- and long-term debt, junior subordinated debt securities, collateral financing arrangements, capital securities and stockholders  equity. The diversity of
MetLife, Inc. s funding sources enhances funding flexibility, limits dependence on any one source of funds and generally lowers the cost of funds. Other sources of MetLife, Inc. s liquidity include programs for short-term and long-term
borrowing, as needed.      We continuously monitor and adjust our liquidity and capital plans in light of changing
requirements and market conditions.       Long-term Debt.  The following table summarizes the
outstanding long-term debt of MetLife, Inc. at:       

(1)  
    Includes $165 million of affiliated senior notes associated with bonds held by ALICO at December 31, 2010. Such bonds were sold to a third
party in the second quarter of 2011.          Short-term Debt.  MetLife, Inc. maintains a
commercial paper program, proceeds of which can be used to finance the general liquidity needs of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries. MetLife, Inc. had no short-term debt outstanding at both December 31, 2011 and 2010. There was no short-term
debt activity in both 2011 and 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the weighted average interest rate on short-term debt, comprised only of commercial paper, was 1.25%. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the average daily
balance on short-term debt was $5 million, and the average days outstanding was six days.       Debt
Issuances and Other Borrowings.  For information on MetLife, Inc. s debt issuances and other borrowings, see    The Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings. 
  
         188

Table of Contents  

    Senior Notes.  The following table summarizes MetLife,
Inc. s outstanding senior notes series by maturity date, excluding any premium or discount, at December 31, 2011:       

(1)  
    Represents one of two tranches comprising the Series C Debt Securities.      

(2)  
    Represents one of two tranches comprising the Series E Debt Securities.      
   Collateral Financing Arrangements.  For information on MetLife, Inc. s collateral financing arrangements,
see    The Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Collateral Financing Arrangements  and Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
   Credit and Committed Facilities.  At December 31, 2011, MetLife, Inc., along with MetLife Funding,
maintained $4.0 billion in unsecured credit facilities, the proceeds of which are available to be used for general corporate purposes, to support the borrowers  commercial paper programs and for the issuance of letters of credit. At
December 31, 2011, MetLife, Inc. had outstanding $3.1 billion in letters of credit and no drawdowns against these facilities. Remaining unused commitments were $916 million at December 31, 2011.   
  MetLife, Inc. maintains committed facilities with a capacity of $300 million. At December 31, 2011, MetLife,
Inc. had outstanding $300 million in letters of credit and no drawdowns against these facilities. There were no remaining unused commitments at December 31, 2011. In addition, MetLife, Inc. is a party to committed facilities of certain of
its subsidiaries, which aggregated $12.1 billion at December 31, 2011. The committed facilities are used as collateral for certain of the Company s affiliated reinsurance liabilities.   
  See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on these facilities.
      Covenants.  Certain of MetLife, Inc. s debt instruments, credit facilities and committed
facilities contain various administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants. MetLife, Inc. believes it was in compliance with all such covenants at December 31, 2011.   
         189

Table of Contents  

    Preferred Stock, Convertible Preferred Stock, Common Stock and Equity
Units.   For information on preferred stock, convertible preferred stock, common stock and equity units issued by MetLife, Inc., see    The Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Preferred
Stock,     Convertible Preferred Stock,     Common Stock,  and    Equity Units,  respectively.        Liquidity and Capital Uses        The primary uses of
liquidity of MetLife, Inc. include debt service, cash dividends on common and preferred stock, capital contributions to subsidiaries, payment of general operating expenses and acquisitions. Based on our analysis and comparison of our current and
future cash inflows from the dividends we receive from subsidiaries that are permitted to be paid without prior insurance regulatory approval, our asset portfolio and other cash flows and anticipated access to the capital markets, we believe there
will be sufficient liquidity and capital to enable MetLife, Inc. to make payments on debt, make cash dividend payments on its common and preferred stock, contribute capital to its subsidiaries, pay all general operating expenses and meet its cash
needs.       Acquisitions.   During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2009, there were no
cash outflows for acquisitions. Cash outflows for acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2010 were $7.2 billion. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding certain of these acquisitions.
      Affiliated Capital Transactions.   During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009, MetLife, Inc. invested an aggregate of $1.9 billion, $699 million (excludes the Acquisition) and $986 million, respectively, in various subsidiaries.   
  MetLife, Inc. lends funds, as necessary, to its subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their capital
requirements. Such loans are included in loans to subsidiaries and consisted of the following at:       

(1)  
    In April 2011, MLIC repaid in cash the $775 million surplus note issued to MetLife, Inc. in December 2009. The early redemption was approved by the
New York Superintendent of Insurance.          
    In September and November 2011, American Life issued notes to MetLife, Inc. for $100
million and $270 million, respectively. American Life repaid both notes during the fourth quarter of 2011.   
   Debt Repayments.   In December 2011, MetLife, Inc. repaid the $750 million senior note with an interest
rate of 6.13%. MetLife, Inc. intends to repay all or refinance in whole or in part the debt that is due in 2012. See    MetLife, Inc.   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Senior Notes.    
   Support Agreements.   MetLife, Inc. is party to various capital support commitments and guarantees with
certain of its subsidiaries. Under these arrangements, MetLife, Inc. has agreed to cause each such entity to meet specified capital and surplus levels or has guaranteed certain contractual obligations.   
         190

Table of Contents  

   In June 2011, MetLife, Inc. guaranteed the obligations of its subsidiary,
DelAm, under a stop loss reinsurance agreement with RGA Reinsurance (Barbados) Inc. ( RGARe ), pursuant to which RGARe retrocedes to DelAm a portion of the whole life medical insurance business that RGARe assumed from American Life on
behalf of its Japan branch.      Prior to the sale in April 2011 of its 50% interest in MSI MetLife to a third
party, MetLife, Inc. guaranteed the obligations of its subsidiary, Exeter Reassurance Company, Ltd. ( Exeter ), under a reinsurance agreement with MSI MetLife, under which Exeter reinsures variable annuity business written by MSI MetLife.
This guarantee will remain in place until such time as the reinsurance agreement between Exeter and MSI MetLife is terminated, notwithstanding the April 2011 disposition of MetLife, Inc. s interest in MSI MetLife as described in Note 2 of
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      In March 2011, MetLife, Inc. guaranteed the obligations
of its subsidiary, Missouri Reinsurance (Barbados) Inc. ( MoRe ), under a retrocession agreement with RGARe, pursuant to which MoRe retrocedes a portion of the closed block liabilities associated with industrial life and ordinary life
insurance policies that it assumed from MLIC.      In November 2010, MetLife, Inc. guaranteed the obligations of
Exeter in an aggregate amount up to $1.0 billion, under a reinsurance agreement with MetLife Europe Limited ( MEL ), under which Exeter reinsures the guaranteed living benefits and guaranteed death benefits associated with certain
unit-linked annuity contracts issued by MEL.      In January 2010, MetLife, Inc. guaranteed the obligations of
MoRe, under a retrocession agreement with RGARe, pursuant to which MoRe retrocedes certain group term life insurance liabilities that it assumed from MLIC.      In December 2009, MetLife, Inc., in connection with MetLife Reinsurance Company of Vermont s ( MRV ) reinsurance of certain universal life and term life insurance risks, committed to the
Vermont Department of Banking, Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration to take necessary action to cause the third protected cell of MRV to maintain total adjusted capital equal to or greater than 200% of such protected cell s
authorized control level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes. See    The Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Credit and Committed Facilities  and Note 11 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.      MetLife, Inc., in connection with MRV s reinsurance of certain
universal life and term life insurance risks, committed to the Vermont Department of Banking, Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration to take necessary action to cause each of the two initial protected cells of MRV to maintain total
adjusted capital equal to or greater than 200% of such protected cell s authorized control level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes. See    The Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Credit
and Committed Facilities  and Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  MetLife, Inc., in connection with the collateral financing arrangement associated with MRC s reinsurance of a
portion of the liabilities associated with the closed block, committed to the South Carolina Department of Insurance to make capital contributions, if necessary, to MRC so that MRC may at all times maintain its total adjusted capital at a level of
not less than 200% of the company action level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes as in effect on the date of determination or December 31, 2007, whichever calculation produces the greater capital requirement, or as otherwise
required by the South Carolina Department of Insurance. See    The Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings  and Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.      MetLife, Inc., in connection with the collateral financing arrangement associated with
MRSC s reinsurance of universal life secondary guarantees, committed to the South Carolina Department of Insurance to take necessary action to cause MRSC to maintain total adjusted capital equal to the greater of $250,000 or 100% of MRSC s
  
         191

Table of Contents  

authorized control level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes. See    The Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Debt Issuances and Other
Borrowings  and Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      MetLife, Inc. has
net worth maintenance agreements with two of its insurance subsidiaries, MLIIC and First MetLife Investors Insurance Company. Under these agreements, as subsequently amended, MetLife, Inc. agreed, without limitation as to the amount, to cause each
of these subsidiaries to have a minimum capital and surplus of $10 million, total adjusted capital at a level not less than 150% of the company action level RBC, as defined by state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it
to meet its current obligations on a timely basis.      MetLife, Inc. also guarantees the obligations of a number
of its subsidiaries under credit facilities with third-party banks. See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements       See Note 1 of
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Future Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements    
  See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
   Subsequent Events       See Note 24 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.        
 Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk           Risk Management
      The Company must effectively manage, measure and monitor the market risk associated with its assets and
liabilities. It has developed an integrated process for managing risk, which it conducts through its Enterprise Risk Management Department, Asset/Liability Management Unit, Treasury Department and Investment Department along with the management of
the business segments. The Company has established and implemented comprehensive policies and procedures at both the corporate and business segment level to minimize the effects of potential market volatility.   
  The Company regularly analyzes its exposure to interest rate, equity market price and foreign currency exchange rate
risks. As a result of that analysis, the Company has determined that the estimated fair values of certain assets and liabilities are materially exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the equity markets.
      Enterprise Risk Management.   MetLife has established several financial and non-financial
senior management committees as part of its risk management process. These committees manage capital and risk positions, approve ALM strategies and establish appropriate corporate business standards. Further enhancing its committee structure, during
the second quarter of 2010, MetLife created an Enterprise Risk Committee including the following voting members: the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Investment Officer and the Chief Risk Officer. This committee is responsible for reviewing all
material risks to the enterprise and deciding on actions if necessary, in the event risks exceed desirable targets, taking into consideration best practices to resolve or mitigate those risks.   
  MetLife also has a separate Enterprise Risk Management Department, which is responsible for risk management throughout
MetLife and reports to MetLife s Chief Risk Officer. The Enterprise Risk Management Department s primary responsibilities consist of:       

implementing a corporate risk framework, which outlines the Company s approach for managing risk on an enterprise-wide basis;
     
         192

Table of Contents  

developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring, monitoring and controlling those risks identified in the corporate risk framework;

establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels;      

deploying capital on an economic capital basis; and      

reporting on a periodic basis to the Finance and Risk Committee of the Company s Board of Directors; with respect to credit risk, reporting to
the Investment Committee of the Company s Board of Directors; and reporting on various aspects of risk to financial and non-financial senior management committees.      
   Asset/Liability Management.   The Company actively manages its assets using an approach that balances
quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity, concentration and investment return. The goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring
that the assets and liabilities are reasonably managed on a cash flow and duration basis. The ALM process is the shared responsibility of the Financial Risk Management and Asset/Liability Management Unit, Enterprise Risk Management, the Portfolio
Management Unit, and the senior members of the business segments and is governed by the ALM Committees. The ALM Committees  duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing
oversight of the ALM process on a periodic basis. The directives of the ALM Committees are carried out and monitored through ALM Working Groups which are set up to manage by product type. In addition, an ALM Steering Committee oversees the
activities of the underlying ALM Committees.      MetLife establishes target asset portfolios for each major
insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. These strategies are monitored through regular review of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield
curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality by the ALM Working Groups.       Market
Risk Exposures       The Company has exposure to market risk through its insurance operations and investment
activities. For purposes of this disclosure,  market risk  is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity market.   
   Interest Rates.   The Company s exposure to interest rate changes results most significantly from
its holdings of fixed maturity securities, as well as its interest rate sensitive liabilities. The fixed maturity securities include U.S. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds and
mortgage-backed securities, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium- and long-term interest rates. The interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include debt, PABs related to certain investment type contracts,
and net embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium- and long-term interest rates) as fixed maturity securities. The Company employs product design, pricing
and ALM strategies to reduce the adverse effects of interest rate movements. Product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products and the ability to reset credited rates for
certain products. ALM strategies include the use of derivatives and duration mismatch limits. See  Risk Factors   Changes in Market Interest Rates May Significantly Affect Our Profitability.    
   Foreign Currency Exchange Rates.   The Company s exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency
exchange rates against the U.S. dollar results from its holdings in non-U.S. dollar denominated fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage loans, and certain liabilities, as well as through its investments in foreign subsidiaries. The
principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in the Company s investment portfolios and liabilities are the Euro, the Japanese yen, the British pound, the Mexican peso and the Canadian dollar. Selectively, the Company
uses U.S. dollar assets to support certain long duration foreign currency liabilities.   
         193

Table of Contents  

Through its investments in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, the Company is primarily exposed to the Japanese yen, the Polish zloty, the Mexican peso, the British pound, the Australian
dollar, the Euro, the Korean won and the Canadian dollar. In addition to hedging with foreign currency swaps, forwards and options, local surplus in some countries is held entirely or in part in U.S. dollar assets which further minimizes
exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. The Company has matched much of its foreign currency liabilities in its foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing its risk to foreign currency
exchange rate fluctuation. See  Risk Factors   Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability.        Equity Market.   The Company has exposure to equity market risk through certain liabilities that involve long-term guarantees on equity performance such as net embedded derivatives on
variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits, certain PABs along with investments in equity securities. We manage this risk on an integrated basis with other risks through our ALM strategies including the dynamic hedging of certain variable
annuity guarantee benefits. The Company also manages equity market risk exposure in its investment portfolio through the use of derivatives. Equity exposures associated with other limited partnership interests are excluded from this section as they
are not considered financial instruments under GAAP.       Management of Market Risk Exposures    
  The Company uses a variety of strategies to manage interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market risk,
including the use of derivative instruments.       Interest Rate Risk Management.   To manage
interest rate risk, the Company analyzes interest rate risk using various models, including multi-scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivative instruments.
These projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of the Company s in-force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. The Department of Financial Services regulations require that MetLife
perform some of these analyses annually as part of MetLife s review of the sufficiency of its regulatory reserves. For several of its legal entities, the Company maintains segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of ALM
and the allocation of investment income to product lines. For each segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the GAAP liabilities less the DAC asset and any non-invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess swept
to the surplus segment. The business segments may reflect differences in legal entity, statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit
quality of the invested assets. Certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. The Company measures relative sensitivities
of the value of its assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing Company models. These models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality
and interest crediting rates. In addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage prepayments and defaults.   
  Common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and
liability values to changes in interest rates. In computing the duration of liabilities, consideration is given to all policyholder guarantees and to how the Company intends to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends.
Each asset portfolio has a duration target based on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. Where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, as is the case with certain retirement and
non-medical health products, the Company may support such liabilities with equity investments, derivatives or curve mismatch strategies.   
         194

Table of Contents  

    Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Management.   Foreign
currency exchange rate risk is assumed primarily in three ways: investments in foreign subsidiaries, purchases of foreign currency denominated investments in the investment portfolio and the sale of certain insurance products.   

The Company s Treasury Department is responsible for managing the exposure to investments in foreign subsidiaries. Limits to exposures are
established and monitored by the Treasury Department and managed by the Investment Department.          

The Investment Department is responsible for managing the exposure to foreign currency investments. Exposure limits to unhedged foreign currency
investments are incorporated into the standing authorizations granted to management by the Board of Directors and are reported to the Board of Directors on a periodic basis.      

The lines of business are responsible for establishing limits and managing any foreign exchange rate exposure caused by the sale or issuance of
insurance products.         MetLife uses foreign currency swaps and forwards to mitigate the
liability exposure, risk of loss and the volatility of net income associated with its investments in foreign subsidiaries, foreign currency denominated fixed income investments and the sale of certain insurance products.   
   Equity Market Risk Management.   Equity market risk exposure through the issuance of variable annuities
is managed by the Company s Asset/Liability Management Unit in partnership with the Investment Department. Equity market risk is realized through its investment in equity securities and is managed by its Investment Department. MetLife uses
derivatives to mitigate its equity exposure both in certain liability guarantees such as variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefit and equity securities. These derivatives include exchange-traded equity futures, equity index options
contracts and equity variance swaps. The Company also employs reinsurance to manage these exposures.   
   Hedging Activities.   MetLife uses derivative contracts primarily to hedge a wide range of risks
including interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, and equity risk. Derivative hedges are designed to reduce risk on an economic basis while considering their impact on accounting results and GAAP and Statutory capital. The construction of the
Company s derivative hedge programs vary depending on the type of risk being hedged. Some hedge programs are asset or liability specific while others are portfolio hedges that reduce risk related to a group of liabilities or assets. The
Company s use of derivatives by major hedge programs is as follows:       

Risks Related to Living Guarantee Benefits   The Company uses a wide range of derivative contracts to hedge the risk associated with
variable annuity living guarantee benefits. These hedges include equity and interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, currency futures/forwards, equity indexed options and interest rate option contracts and equity variance swaps.

Minimum Interest Rate Guarantees   For certain Company liability contracts, the Company provides the contractholder a guaranteed minimum
interest rate. These contracts include certain fixed annuities and other insurance liabilities. The Company purchases interest rate floors to reduce risk associated with these liability guarantees.      

Reinvestment Risk in Long Duration Liability Contracts   Derivatives are used to hedge interest rate risk related to certain long duration
liability contracts, such as deferred annuities. Hedges include zero coupon interest rate swaps and swaptions.          

Foreign Currency Risk   The Company uses currency swaps and forwards to hedge foreign currency risk. These hedges primarily swap foreign
currency denominated bonds, investments in foreign subsidiaries or equity exposures to U.S. dollars.      
         195

Table of Contents  

General ALM Hedging Strategies   In the ordinary course of managing the Company s asset/liability risks, the Company uses interest
rate futures, interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, interest rate floors and inflation swaps. These hedges are designed to reduce interest rate risk or inflation risk related to the existing assets or liabilities or related to expected future
cash flows.          Risk Measurement: Sensitivity Analysis    
  The Company measures market risk related to its market sensitive assets and liabilities based on changes in interest
rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis. This analysis estimates the potential changes in estimated fair value based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity
market prices and foreign currency exchange rates. The Company believes that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near-term. In performing the analysis summarized below, the Company used
market rates at December 31, 2011. The sensitivity analysis separately calculates each of the Company s market risk exposures (interest rate, equity market and foreign currency exchange rate) relating to its trading and non trading assets
and liabilities. The Company modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the estimated fair values of its market sensitive assets and liabilities as follows:   

the net present values of its interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates;

the U.S. dollar equivalent estimated fair values of the Company s foreign currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in
foreign currency exchange rates; and          

the estimated fair value of its equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity market prices.      
  The sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of the Company s future financial
performance. The Company cannot ensure that its actual losses in any particular period will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. Limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include:   

the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the
impact of prepayment rates on mortgages;          

for the derivatives that qualify as hedges, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values;

the analysis excludes other significant real estate holdings and liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts; and      

the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the period.      
  Accordingly, the Company uses such models as tools and not as substitutes for the experience and judgment of its
management. Based on its analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, MetLife has determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the estimated fair value of certain assets and
liabilities from interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity exposures.   
         196

Table of Contents  

   The table below illustrates the potential loss in estimated fair value for
each market risk exposure of the Company s market sensitive assets and liabilities at December 31, 2011:       
 
         197

Table of Contents  

    Sensitivity Analysis: Interest Rates.   The table below
provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in fair value of the Company s trading and non-trading interest sensitive financial instruments at December 31, 2011 by type of asset or liability:   

198

Table of Contents  

(1)  
    Represents only those investments accounted for using the cost method.      

(2)  
    Embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract.      

(3)  
    Separate account assets and liabilities which are interest rate sensitive are not included herein as any interest rate risk is borne by the holder
of the separate account.         Interest rate risk has decreased by $1.1 billion, or 20%, to
$4.3 billion at December 31, 2011 from $5.4 billion at December 31, 2010. The decrease in risk is primarily due to a large decline in interest rates across the long end of the swaps and U.S. Treasury curves which decreased risk
by $1.8 billion. This decrease in risk was partially offset by a change in the net asset and liability bases of $590 million and the yield impact to long term debt of $230 million. The remainder of the fluctuation is attributable to numerous
immaterial items.   
         199

Table of Contents  

    Sensitivity Analysis: Foreign Currency Exchange Rates .  The
table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of the Company s portfolio due to a 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates at December 31, 2011 by type of asset or liability:   

200

Table of Contents  

(1)  
    Estimated fair value presented in the table above represents the estimated fair value of all financial instruments within this financial statement
caption not necessarily those solely subject to foreign exchange risk.          

(2)  
    Embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract.      
  Foreign currency exchange rate risk increased by $1.0 billion, to $5.0 billion at December 31, 2011 from $4.0
billion at December 31, 2010. This change was due to an increase in exchange rate risk relating to fixed maturity securities (including trading and other securities) of $1.6 billion due to higher net exposures primarily to the British pound,
the Australian dollar and the Japanese yen. This was partially offset by an increase in the foreign exposure related to PABs and other liabilities and the use of derivatives employed by the Company of $274 million and $280 million, respectively. The
remainder of the fluctuation is attributable to numerous immaterial items.   
         201

Table of Contents  

    Sensitivity Analysis: Equity Market Prices.  The table below
provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of the Company s portfolio due to a 10% change in equity at December 31, 2011 by type of asset or liability:   

(1)  
    Estimated fair value presented in the table above represents the estimated fair value of all financial instruments within this financial statement
caption not necessarily those solely subject to equity price risk.          

(2)  
    Embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract.      

(3)  
    During the fourth quarter of 2011, the analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity prices determined that due to a
change in the portfolio composition of derivatives employed by the Company, an increase of 10% had the most adverse effect on our equity risk while the prior year end s analysis of equity prices shows a decrease of 10% had the most adverse
effect.         Equity price risk increased by $23 million to $37 million at December 31,
2011 from $14 million at December 31, 2010. This increase is primarily due to a change in the portfolio composition of derivatives employed by the Company.   
         202

Table of Contents  

      Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data             Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules    

203

Table of Contents  

      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
      To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of      MetLife, Inc.:      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. Our
audits also included the financial statement schedules listed in the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also
includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   
  In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of MetLife, Inc.
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein.      As discussed in Note 1, the Company changed its method of accounting for the recognition and presentation of
other-than-temporary impairment losses for certain investments as required by accounting guidance adopted on April 1, 2009.      We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and our report, dated February 28, 2012 expressed
an unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting.      /s/    DELOITTE   TOUCHE
LLP      DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   
  New York, New York      February 28, 2012
  
         204

Table of Contents  

      MetLife, Inc.    
    Consolidated Balance Sheets    
    December 31, 2011 and 2010        (In millions, except share and per share data)        
 
    See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.    
         205

Table of Contents  

      MetLife, Inc.    
    Consolidated Statements of Operations    
    For the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009    
   (In millions, except per share data)        
 
    See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.    
         206

Table of Contents  

      MetLife, Inc.    
    Consolidated Statements of Equity    
    For the Year Ended December 31, 2011        (In millions)        

(1)  
    Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests excludes gains (losses) of redeemable noncontrolling interests in partially owned
consolidated subsidiaries of ($13) million.          See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial
statements.    
         207

Table of Contents  

    MetLife, Inc.    
    Consolidated Statements of Equity   (Continued)    
    For the Year Ended December 31, 2010        (In millions)        

(1)  
    Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests excludes gains (losses) of redeemable noncontrolling interests in partially owned
consolidated subsidiaries of ($2) million.          See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial
statements.    
         208

Table of Contents  

    MetLife, Inc.    
    Consolidated Statements of Equity   (Continued)    
    For the Year Ended December 31, 2009        (In millions)        
 
    See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.    
         209

Table of Contents  

      MetLife, Inc.    
    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    
    For the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009    
   (In millions)        
 
          See
accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.    

         210

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   (Continued)        For the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009        (In millions)

(1)  
    The 2010 amounts include measurement period adjustments described in Note 2.      
    See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.    
         211

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements    
    1.  Business, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies    
     Business         MetLife  or the  Company  refers to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999, its subsidiaries and affiliates. MetLife is a leading global provider of insurance,
annuities and employee benefit programs throughout the United States, Japan, Latin America, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East. Through its subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife offers life insurance, annuities, auto and homeowners insurance,
mortgage and deposit products and other financial services to individuals, as well as group insurance and retirement   savings products and services to corporations and other institutions.   
  MetLife is organized into six segments: Insurance Products, Retirement Products, Corporate Benefit Funding and
Auto   Home (collectively,  U.S. Business ), and Japan and Other International Regions (collectively,  International ). See Note 22.        Basis of Presentation     
   The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries, as well as partnerships and joint ventures in which the Company has control, and variable interest entities ( VIEs ) for which the Company is the primary beneficiary. See    Adoption of New
Accounting Pronouncements.  Closed block assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are combined on a line-by-line basis with the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses outside the closed block based on the nature of the particular item.
See Note 10. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.   

   On November 1, 2010 (the  Acquisition Date ), MetLife,
Inc. completed the acquisition of American Life Insurance Company ( American Life ) from AM Holdings LLC (formerly known as ALICO Holdings LLC) ( AM Holdings ), a subsidiary of American International Group, Inc.
( AIG ), and Delaware American Life Insurance Company ( DelAm ) from AIG (American Life, together with DelAm, collectively,  ALICO ) (the  Acquisition ). The Acquisition was accounted for using the acquisition
method of accounting. ALICO s fiscal year-end is November 30. Accordingly, the Company s consolidated financial statements reflect the assets and liabilities of ALICO as of November 30, 2011 and 2010, and the operating results of
ALICO for the year ended November 30, 2011 and the one month ended November 30, 2010. The accounting policies of ALICO were conformed to those of MetLife upon the Acquisition. See Note 2.   
   Certain amounts in the prior years  consolidated financial statements and related footnotes
thereto have been reclassified to conform with the 2011 presentation as discussed throughout the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.        Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Critical Accounting Estimates     
   The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ) requires management to adopt accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements.   
  A description of critical estimates is incorporated within the discussion of the related accounting policies which
follows. In applying these policies, management makes subjective and complex judgments that frequently require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Many of these policies, estimates and related judgments are common in the insurance
and financial services industries; others are specific to the Company s business and operations. Actual results could differ from these estimates.   

         212

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Investments    
   The accounting policies for the Company s principal
investments are as follows:       Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities.   The
Company s fixed maturity and equity securities are classified as available-for-sale and are reported at their estimated fair value.      Unrealized investment gains and losses on these securities are recorded as a separate component of other comprehensive income (loss), net of policyholder-related amounts and deferred income taxes. All
security transactions are recorded on a trade date basis. Investment gains and losses on sales of securities are determined on a specific identification basis.   
  Interest income on fixed maturity securities is recorded when earned using an effective yield method
giving effect to amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts. Dividends on equity securities are recorded when declared. Interest, dividends and prepayment fees are recorded in net investment income.   
  Included within fixed maturity securities are structured securities including mortgage-backed and
asset-backed securities ( ABS ). Amortization of the premium or discount considers the estimated timing and amount of prepayments of the underlying loans. Actual prepayment experience is periodically reviewed and effective yields are
recalculated when differences arise between the originally anticipated and the actual prepayments received and currently anticipated. Prepayment assumptions for single class and multi-class mortgage-backed and ABS are estimated by management using
inputs obtained from third-party specialists, including broker-dealers, and based on management s knowledge of the current market. For credit-sensitive mortgage-backed and ABS and certain prepayment-sensitive securities, the effective yield is
recalculated on a prospective basis. For all other mortgage-backed and ABS, the effective yield is recalculated on a retrospective basis.      The Company periodically evaluates fixed maturity and equity securities for impairment. The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on management s case-by-case evaluation of the
underlying reasons for the decline in estimated fair value. The Company s review of its fixed maturity and equity securities for impairments includes an analysis of the total gross unrealized losses by three categories of severity and/or age of
the gross unrealized loss, as summarized in Note 3    Aging of Gross Unrealized Loss and OTTI Loss for Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available-for-Sale.    
  Management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses its best judgment in
evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent in management s evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the
issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations used by the Company in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to: (i) the length of time and the extent to which the estimated fair value has been below cost or
amortized cost; (ii) the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties; (iii) the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub-sector; (iv) the potential
for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources;
(vi) with respect to fixed maturity securities, whether the Company has the intent to sell or will more likely than not be required to sell a particular security before the decline in estimated fair value below amortized cost recovers;
(vii) with respect to structured securities, changes in forecasted cash flows after considering the quality of underlying collateral; expected prepayment speeds; current and forecasted loss severity; consideration of the payment terms of the
underlying assets backing a particular security; and the payment priority within the tranche structure of the security; and (viii) other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies.
  
         213

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   For fixed maturity securities in an unrealized loss
position, an other-than-temporary impairment ( OTTI ) is recognized in earnings when it is anticipated that the amortized cost will not be recovered. In such situations, the OTTI recognized in earnings is the entire difference between the
fixed maturity security s amortized cost and its estimated fair value only when either: (i) the Company has the intent to sell the fixed maturity security; or (ii) it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell
the fixed maturity security before recovery of the decline in estimated fair value below amortized cost. If neither of these two conditions exist, the difference between the amortized cost of the fixed maturity security and the present value of
projected future cash flows expected to be collected is recognized as an OTTI in earnings ( credit loss ). If the estimated fair value is less than the present value of projected future cash flows expected to be collected, this portion of
OTTI related to other-than credit factors ( noncredit loss ) is recorded in other comprehensive income (loss). Adjustments are not made for subsequent recoveries in value.   
  With respect to equity securities, the Company considers in its OTTI analysis its intent and ability to
hold a particular equity security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its estimated fair value to an amount equal to or greater than cost. If a sale decision is made for an equity security and it is not expected to recover
to an amount at least equal to cost prior to the expected time of the sale, the security will be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired in the period that the sale decision was made and an OTTI loss will be recorded in earnings. When an OTTI loss
has occurred, the OTTI loss is the entire difference between the equity security s cost and its estimated fair value with a corresponding charge to earnings.   
  Upon acquisition, the Company classifies perpetual securities that have attributes of both debt and
equity as fixed maturity securities if the securities have an interest rate step-up feature which, when combined with other qualitative factors, indicates that the securities have more debt-like characteristics; while those with more equity-like
characteristics are classified as equity securities within non-redeemable preferred stock. Many of such securities, commonly referred to as  perpetual hybrid securities,  have been issued by non-U.S. financial institutions that are
accorded the highest two capital treatment categories by their respective regulatory bodies (i.e. core capital, or  Tier 1 capital  and perpetual deferrable securities, or  Upper Tier 2 capital ). With respect to perpetual hybrid
securities, the Company considers in its OTTI analysis whether there has been any deterioration in credit of the issuer and the likelihood of recovery in value of the securities that are in a severe and extended unrealized loss position. The Company
also considers whether any perpetual hybrid securities, with an unrealized loss, regardless of credit rating, have deferred any dividend payments. When an OTTI loss has occurred, the OTTI loss is the entire difference between the perpetual hybrid
security s cost and its estimated fair value with a corresponding charge to earnings.   
  The Company s methodology and significant inputs used to determine the amount of the credit loss on
fixed maturity securities are as follows:      (i) The Company calculates the recovery value by
performing a discounted cash flow analysis based on the present value of future cash flows expected to be received. The discount rate is generally the effective interest rate of the fixed maturity security prior to impairment.   
  (ii) When determining the collectability and the period over which value is expected to recover, the
Company applies the same considerations utilized in its overall impairment evaluation process which incorporates information regarding the specific security, fundamentals of the industry and geographic area in which the security issuer operates, and
overall macroeconomic conditions. Projected future cash flows are estimated using assumptions derived from management s best estimates of likely scenario-based outcomes after giving consideration to a variety of variables that include, but are
not limited to: general payment terms of the security; the likelihood that the issuer can service the scheduled interest and principal payments; the quality and amount of any credit enhancements; the security s position within the capital
structure of the   
         214

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
issuer; possible corporate restructurings or asset sales by the issuer; and changes to the rating of the security or the issuer by rating agencies.   
  (iii) Additional considerations are made when assessing the unique features that apply to certain
structured securities such as residential mortgage-backed securities ( RMBS ), commercial mortgage-backed securities ( CMBS ) and ABS. These additional factors for structured securities include, but are not limited to: the
quality of underlying collateral; expected prepayment speeds; current and forecasted loss severity; consideration of the payment terms of the underlying assets backing a particular security; and the payment priority within the tranche structure of
the security.      (iv) When determining the amount of the credit loss for U.S. and foreign
corporate securities, foreign government securities and state and political subdivision securities, management considers the estimated fair value as the recovery value when available information does not indicate that another value is more
appropriate. When information is identified that indicates a recovery value other than estimated fair value, management considers in the determination of recovery value the same considerations utilized in its overall impairment evaluation process as
described in (ii) above, as well as private and public sector programs to restructure foreign government securities.      The cost or amortized cost of fixed maturity and equity securities is adjusted for OTTI in the period in which the determination is made. The Company does not change the revised cost basis for subsequent
recoveries in value.      In periods subsequent to the recognition of OTTI on a fixed maturity
security, the Company accounts for the impaired security as if it had been purchased on the measurement date of the impairment. Accordingly, the discount (or reduced premium) based on the new cost basis is accreted into net investment income over
the remaining term of the fixed maturity security in a prospective manner based on the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows.       Trading and Other Securities .  Trading and other securities are stated at estimated fair value. Trading and other securities include investments that are actively purchased and sold
( Actively Traded Securities ). These Actively Traded Securities are principally fixed maturity securities. Short sale agreement liabilities related to Actively Traded Securities, included in other liabilities, are also stated at estimated
fair value. Trading and other securities also includes securities for which the fair value option ( FVO ) has been elected ( FVO Securities ). FVO Securities include certain fixed maturity and equity securities
held-for-investment by the general account to support asset and liability matching strategies for certain insurance products. FVO Securities also include contractholder-directed investments supporting unit-linked variable annuity type liabilities
which do not qualify for presentation and reporting as separate account summary total assets and liabilities. These investments are primarily mutual funds and, to a lesser extent, fixed maturity and equity securities, short-term investments and cash
and cash equivalents. The investment returns on these investments inure to contractholders and are offset by a corresponding change in policyholder account balances ( PABs ) through interest credited to policyholder account balances.
Changes in estimated fair value of these securities subsequent to purchase are included in net investment income, except for certain fixed maturity securities included in FVO Securities where changes are included in net investment gains (losses).
FVO Securities also include securities held by consolidated securitization entities ( CSEs ) with changes in estimated fair value subsequent to consolidation included in net investment gains (losses). Interest and dividends related to all
trading and other securities are included in net investment income.       Securities
Lending .  Securities lending transactions, whereby blocks of securities, which are included in fixed maturity securities and short-term investments, are loaned to third parties, are treated as financing
  
         215

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
arrangements and the associated liability is recorded at the amount of cash received. At the inception of a loan, the Company obtains collateral, usually cash, in an amount generally equal to
102% of the estimated fair value of the securities loaned and maintains it at a level greater than or equal to 100% for the duration of the loan. The Company monitors the estimated fair value of the securities loaned on a daily basis with additional
collateral obtained as necessary. Income and expenses associated with securities lending transactions are reported as investment income and investment expense, respectively, within net investment income.   
   Mortgage Loans   Mortgage Loans Held-For-Investment .  For the purposes of
determining valuation allowances the Company disaggregates its mortgage loan investments into three portfolio segments: commercial, agricultural, and residential. The accounting and valuation allowance policies that are applicable to all portfolio
segments are presented below, followed by the policies applicable to both commercial and agricultural loans, which are very similar, as well as policies applicable to residential loans. Also included in mortgage loans held-for-investment are
commercial mortgage loans held by CSEs that were consolidated by the Company on January 1, 2010 upon the adoption of new guidance. The FVO was elected for these commercial mortgage loans, and thus they are stated at estimated fair value with
changes in estimated fair value subsequent to consolidation recognized in net investment gains (losses).       Commercial, Agricultural and Residential Mortgage Loans    Mortgage loans held-for-investment are stated at unpaid principal balance, adjusted for any unamortized premium or discount,
deferred fees or expenses, and net of valuation allowances. Interest income is accrued on the principal amount of the loan based on the loan s contractual interest rate. Amortization of premiums and discounts is recorded using the effective
yield method. Interest income, amortization of premiums and discounts and prepayment fees are reported in net investment income. Interest ceases to accrue when collection of interest is not considered probable and/or when interest or principal
payments are past due as follows: commercial   60 days; and agricultural and residential   90 days, unless, in the case of a residential loan, it is both well-secured and in the process of collection. When a loan is placed on non-accrual
status, uncollected past due interest is charged-off against net investment income. Generally, the accrual of interest income resumes after all delinquent amounts are paid and management believes all future principal and interest payments will be
collected. Cash receipts on non-accruing loans are recorded in accordance with the loan agreement as a reduction of principal and/or interest income. Charge-offs occur upon the realization of a credit loss, typically through foreclosure or after a
decision is made to sell a loan, or for residential loans when, after considering the individual consumer s financial status, management believes that uncollectability is other-than-temporary. Gain or loss upon charge-off is recorded, net of
previously established valuation allowances, in net investment gains (losses). Cash recoveries on principal amounts previously charged-off are generally recorded as an increase to the valuation allowance, unless the valuation allowance adequately
provides for expected credit losses; then the recovery is recorded in net investment gains (losses). Gains and losses from sales of loans and increases or decreases to valuation allowances are recorded in net investment gains (losses).   
  Mortgage loans are considered to be impaired when it is probable that, based upon current information and
events, the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due under the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Specific valuation allowances are established using the same methodology for all three portfolio segments as the excess carrying value
of a loan over either (i) the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan s original effective interest rate, (ii) the estimated fair value of the loan s underlying collateral if the loan is in the process
of foreclosure or otherwise collateral dependent, or (iii) the loan s observable market price. A common evaluation framework is used for establishing non-specific valuation allowances for all loan portfolio segments; however, a separate
non-specific valuation allowance is calculated and maintained for each loan portfolio segment that is based on inputs unique to each loan portfolio segment. Non-specific valuation allowances are established for pools of loans with similar risk
  
         216

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
characteristics where a property-specific or market-specific risk has not been identified, but for which the Company expects to incur a credit loss. These evaluations are based upon several loan
portfolio segment-specific factors, including the Company s experience for loan losses, defaults and loss severity, and loss expectations for loans with similar risk characteristics. These evaluations are revised as conditions change and new
information becomes available.      For commercial and agricultural mortgage loans, the Company
typically uses 10 years or more of historical experience in establishing non-specific valuation allowances. For commercial mortgage loans, 20 years of historical experience is used which captures multiple economic cycles. For evaluations of
commercial mortgage loans, in addition to historical experience, management considers factors that include the impact of a rapid change to the economy, which may not be reflected in the loan portfolio, and recent loss and recovery trend experience
as compared to historical loss and recovery experience. For agricultural mortgage loans, ten years of historical experience is used which captures a full economic cycle. For evaluations of agricultural loans, in addition to historical experience,
management considers factors that include increased stress in certain sectors, which may be evidenced by higher delinquency rates, or a change in the number of higher risk loans. For commercial and agricultural mortgage loans, on a quarterly basis,
management incorporates the impact of these current market events and conditions on historical experience in determining the non-specific valuation allowance established for each portfolio segment level. For evaluations of residential mortgage
loans, the key inputs of expected frequency and expected loss reflect current market conditions, with expected frequency adjusted, when appropriate, for differences from market conditions and the Company s experience.   
   Commercial and Agricultural Mortgage Loans    All commercial loans are reviewed on an
ongoing basis which may include an analysis of the property financial statements and rent roll, lease rollover analysis, property inspections, market analysis, estimated valuations of the underlying collateral, loan-to-value ratios, debt service
coverage ratios, and tenant creditworthiness. All agricultural loans are monitored on an ongoing basis. The monitoring process focuses on higher risk loans, which include those that are classified as restructured, potentially delinquent, delinquent
or in foreclosure, as well as loans with higher loan-to-value ratios and lower debt service coverage ratios. The monitoring process for agricultural loans is generally similar, with a focus on higher risk loans, including reviews on a geographic and
property-type basis. Higher risk commercial and agricultural loans are reviewed individually on an ongoing basis for potential credit loss and specific valuation allowances are established using the methodology described above for all loan portfolio
segments. Quarterly, the remaining loans are reviewed on a pool basis by aggregating groups of loans that have similar risk characteristics for potential credit loss, and non-specific valuation allowances are established as described above using
inputs that are unique to each segment of the loan portfolio.      For commercial loans, the
Company s primary credit quality indicator is the debt service coverage ratio, which compares a property s net operating income to amounts needed to service the principal and interest due under the loan. Generally, the lower the debt
service coverage ratio, the higher the risk of experiencing a credit loss. The Company also reviews the loan-to-value ratio of its commercial loan portfolio. Loan-to-value ratios compare the unpaid principal balance of the loan to the estimated fair
value of the underlying collateral. A loan-to-value ratio greater than 100% indicates that the loan s unpaid principal balance is greater than the collateral value. A loan-to-value ratio of less than 100% indicates an excess of collateral value
over the loan s unpaid principal balance. Generally, the higher the loan-to-value ratio, the higher the risk of experiencing a credit loss. The debt service coverage ratio and loan-to-value ratio, as well as the values utilized in calculating
these ratios, are updated annually, on a rolling basis, with a portion of the loan portfolio updated each quarter.   
         217

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   For agricultural loans, the Company s primary
credit quality indicator is the loan-to-value ratio. The values utilized in calculating this ratio are developed in connection with the ongoing review of the agricultural loan portfolio and are routinely updated.   
   Residential Mortgage Loans    The Company s residential loan portfolio is comprised
primarily of closed end, amortizing residential loans and home equity lines of credit and it does not hold any optional adjustable rate mortgages, sub-prime, or low teaser rate loans.   
  In contrast to the commercial and agricultural loan portfolios, residential loans are smaller-balance
homogeneous loans that are collectively evaluated for impairment. Non-specific valuation allowances are established using the evaluation framework described above for pools of loans with similar risk characteristics from inputs that are unique to
the residential segment of the loan portfolio. Loan specific valuation allowances are only established on residential loans when they have been restructured and are established using the methodology described above for all loan portfolio segments.
     For residential loans, the Company s primary credit quality indicator is whether the
loan is performing or non-performing. The Company generally defines non-performing residential loans as those that are 90 or more days past due and/or in non-accrual status. The determination of performing or non-performing status is assessed
monthly. Generally, non-performing residential loans have a higher risk of experiencing a credit loss.       Mortgage Loans Modified in a Troubled Debt Restructuring .  For a small portion of the portfolio, classified as troubled debt restructurings, concessions are granted related to the
borrowers  financial difficulties. Generally, the types of concessions include: reduction of the contractual interest rate, extension of the maturity date at an interest rate lower than current market interest rates and/or a reduction of
accrued interest. The amount, timing and extent of the concession granted is considered in determining any impairment or changes in the specific valuation allowance recorded in connection with the troubled debt restructuring. Through the continuous
portfolio monitoring process, a specific valuation allowance may have been recorded prior to the quarter when the mortgage loan is modified in a troubled debt restructuring. Accordingly, the carrying value (after specific valuation allowance) before
and after modification through a troubled debt restructuring may not change significantly, or may increase if the expected recovery is higher than the pre-modification recovery assessment.   
   Mortgage Loans   Mortgage Loans Held-For-Sale .  This caption includes three
categories of mortgage loans:       Residential mortgage loans  
held-for-sale .  Forward and reverse residential mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell, for which the FVO was elected, are stated at estimated fair value. Subsequent changes in estimated fair value are recognized in other
revenues.       Mortgage loans   held-for-sale   lower of amortized cost or estimated
fair value .  Mortgage loans that were previously designated as held-for-investment, but now are designated as held-for-sale, are stated at the lower of amortized cost or estimated fair value. At the time of transfer to held-for-sale
status, such mortgage loans are recorded at the lower of amortized cost or estimated fair value, or for collateral dependent loans, estimated fair value less expected disposition costs, with any loss recognized in net investment gains (losses).
      Securitized reverse residential mortgage loans .  Reverse residential
mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell which have been sold into Government National Mortgage Association ( GNMA ) securitizations, for which the FVO was elected, are stated at estimated fair value. Prior to December 31,
2011, consistent with historical industry practice, these standard form loans were de-recognized from the   
         218

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
balance sheet upon the GNMA securitization. However, after an industry led review of the GNMA securitization program, the Company has determined that these securitized reverse residential
mortgage loans do not qualify for de-recognition. Therefore, as of December 31, 2011 the Company recorded $7.7 billion of reverse mortgage loans, included within mortgage loans held-for-sale. The FVO was also elected for the
$7.6 billion corresponding liability, included within other liabilities. Subsequent changes in estimated fair value of both the asset and liability are recognized in other revenues. The Company s economic exposure is generally limited to
its servicing rights. Prior year amounts have not been included in the financial statements as these amounts were not material to such financial statements.   
   Policy Loans .  Policy loans are stated at unpaid principal balances. Interest income on
such loans is recorded as earned in net investment income using the contractually agreed upon interest rate. Generally, interest is capitalized on the policy s anniversary date. Valuation allowances are not established for policy loans, as
these loans are fully collateralized by the cash surrender value of the underlying insurance policies. Any unpaid principal or interest on the loan is deducted from the cash surrender value or the death benefit prior to settlement of the policy.
      Real Estate .  Real estate held-for-investment, including related
improvements, is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset (typically 20 to 55 years). Rental income is recognized on a straight-line basis over
the term of the respective leases. The Company classifies a property as held-for-sale if it commits to a plan to sell a property within one year and actively markets the property in its current condition for a price that is reasonable in comparison
to its estimated fair value. The Company classifies the results of operations and the gain or loss on sale of a property that either has been disposed of or classified as held-for-sale as discontinued operations, if the ongoing operations of the
property will be eliminated from the ongoing operations of the Company and if the Company will not have any significant continuing involvement in the operations of the property after the sale. Real estate held-for-sale is stated at the lower of
depreciated cost or estimated fair value less expected disposition costs. Real estate is not depreciated while it is classified as held-for-sale. The Company periodically reviews its properties held-for-investment for impairment and tests properties
for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable and the carrying value of the property exceeds its estimated fair value. Properties whose carrying values are greater
than their undiscounted cash flows are written down to their estimated fair value, with the impairment loss included in net investment gains (losses). Impairment losses are based upon the estimated fair value of real estate, which is generally
computed using the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the underlying risks. Real estate acquired upon foreclosure is recorded at the lower of estimated fair value or the carrying value of the mortgage
loan at the date of foreclosure.       Real Estate Joint Ventures and Other Limited Partnership
Interests .  The Company uses the equity method of accounting for investments in real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests consisting of leveraged buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds in
which it has more than a minor ownership interest or more than a minor influence over the joint venture s or partnership s operations, but does not have a controlling interest and is not the primary beneficiary. The equity method is also
used for such investments in which the Company has more than a minor influence or more than a 20% interest. Generally, the Company records its share of earnings using a three-month lag methodology for instances where the timely financial information
is not available and the contractual agreements provide for the delivery of the investees  financial information after the end of the Company s reporting period. The Company uses the cost method of accounting for investments in real estate
joint ventures and other limited partnership interests in which it has a minor equity investment and virtually no influence over the joint venture s or the partnership s operations. Based on the nature and structure of these investments,
they do not meet the characteristics of an equity security. The Company reports the distributions from real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership   
         219

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
interests accounted for under the cost method and equity in earnings from real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests accounted for under the equity method in net
investment income. In addition to the investees performing regular evaluations for the impairment of underlying investments, the Company routinely evaluates its investments in real estate joint ventures and other limited partnerships for
impairments. The Company considers its cost method investments for OTTI when the carrying value of real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests exceeds the net asset value ( NAV ). The Company takes into consideration
the severity and duration of this excess when deciding if the cost method investment is other-than-temporarily impaired. For equity method investees, the Company considers financial and other information provided by the investee, other known
information and inherent risks in the underlying investments, as well as future capital commitments, in determining whether an impairment has occurred. When an OTTI is deemed to have occurred, the Company records a realized capital loss within net
investment gains (losses) to record the investment at its estimated fair value.       Short-term
Investments .  Short-term investments include securities and other investments with remaining maturities of one year or less, but greater than three months, at the time of purchase and are stated at estimated fair value or amortized
cost, which approximates estimated fair value.       Other Invested Assets .  Other
invested assets consist principally of freestanding derivatives with positive estimated fair values, leveraged leases, investments in insurance enterprise joint ventures, tax credit partnerships, funding agreements, mortgage servicing rights
( MSRs ) and funds withheld.      Freestanding derivatives with positive estimated fair
values are described in   Derivative Financial Instruments  below.      Leveraged
leases are recorded net of non-recourse debt. The Company recognizes income on the leveraged leases by applying the leveraged lease s estimated rate of return to the net investment in the lease. The Company regularly reviews residual values and
impairs them to expected values.      Joint venture investments represent the Company s
investments in entities that engage in insurance underwriting activities and are accounted for under the equity method.      Tax credit partnerships are established for the purpose of investing in low-income housing and other social causes, where the primary return on investment is in the form of income tax credits and are
accounted for under the equity method or under the effective yield method. The Company reports the equity in earnings of joint venture investments and tax credit partnerships in net investment income.   
  Funding agreements represent arrangements where the Company has long-term interest bearing amounts on
deposit with third parties and are generally stated at amortized cost.      MSRs are measured at
estimated fair value and are either acquired or are generated from the sale of originated residential mortgage loans where the servicing rights are retained by the Company. Changes in estimated fair value of MSRs are reported in other revenues in
the period in which the change occurs.      Funds withheld represent a receivable for amounts
contractually withheld by ceding companies in accordance with reinsurance agreements. The Company recognizes interest on funds withheld at rates defined by the terms of the agreement which may be contractually specified or directly related to the
underlying investments and records it in net investment income.       Investments Risks and
Uncertainties .  The Company s investments are exposed to four primary sources of risk: credit, interest rate, liquidity risk, and market valuation. The financial statement risks, stemming from such investment risks, are those
associated with the determination of estimated fair values, the diminished ability to sell certain investments in times of strained market conditions, the recognition of impairments, the   
         220

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
recognition of income on certain investments and the potential consolidation of VIEs. The use of different methodologies, assumptions and inputs relating to these financial statement risks may
have a material effect on the amounts presented within the consolidated financial statements.   
  When available, the estimated fair value of the Company s fixed maturity and equity securities are
based on quoted prices in active markets that are readily and regularly obtainable. Generally, these are the most liquid of the Company s securities holdings and valuation of these securities does not involve management judgment.   
  When quoted prices in active markets are not available, the determination of estimated fair value is
based on market standard valuation methodologies as described in    Fair Value  below and in Note 5. Such estimated fair values are based on available market information and management s judgments about financial
instruments. The observable and unobservable inputs used in the standard market valuation methodologies are described in Note 5.      The estimated fair value of residential mortgage loans held-for-sale and securitized reverse residential mortgage loans are primarily based on observable pricing for securities backed by similar types of
loans, adjusted to convert the securities prices to loan prices, or from independent broker quotations, which is intended to approximate the amounts that would be received from third parties. Certain other mortgage loans designated as held-for-sale
are recorded at the lower of amortized cost or estimated fair value, or for collateral dependent loans, estimated fair value of the collateral less expected disposition costs. For these loans, estimated fair value is determined using independent
broker quotations or values provided by independent valuation specialists or, when the loan is in foreclosure or otherwise collateral dependent, the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral is estimated using internal models.   
  The estimated fair value of MSRs is principally determined through the use of internal discounted cash
flow models which utilize various valuation inputs and assumptions which are described in Note 5. The use of different valuation assumptions and inputs, as well as assumptions relating to the collection of expected cash flows, may have a
material effect on the estimated fair values of MSRs.      Financial markets are susceptible to
severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. The Company s ability to sell securities, or the price ultimately realized for these securities, depends upon the demand and liquidity
in the market and increases the use of judgment in determining the estimated fair value of certain securities.      The determination of the amount of valuation allowances and impairments, as applicable, is described previously by investment type. The determination of such valuation allowances and impairments is highly
subjective and is based upon the Company s periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes
available.      The recognition of income on certain investments (e.g. structured securities,
including mortgage-backed and ABS, certain structured investment transactions, trading and other securities) is dependent upon prepayments and defaults, which could result in changes in amounts to be earned.   
  The Company has invested in certain structured transactions that are VIEs. These structured transactions
include asset-backed securitizations, hybrid securities, real estate joint ventures, other limited partnership interests, and limited liability companies. The Company consolidates those VIEs for which it is deemed to be the primary beneficiary.
        
         221

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The accounting guidance for the determination of when an
entity is a VIE and when to consolidate a VIE is complex and requires significant management judgment. The determination of the VIE s primary beneficiary requires an evaluation of the contractual and implied rights and obligations associated
with each party s relationship with or involvement in the entity, an estimate of the entity s expected losses and expected residual returns and the allocation of such estimates to each party involved in the entity. The Company generally
uses a qualitative approach to determine whether it is the primary beneficiary.      For most
VIEs, the entity that has both the ability to direct the most significant activities of the VIE and the obligation to absorb losses or receive benefits that could be significant to the VIE is considered the primary beneficiary. However, for VIEs
that are investment companies or apply measurement principles consistent with those utilized by investment companies, the primary beneficiary is based on a risks and rewards model and is defined as the entity that will absorb a majority of a
VIE s expected losses, receive a majority of a VIE s expected residual returns if no single entity absorbs a majority of expected losses, or both. The Company reassesses its involvement with VIEs on a quarterly basis. The use of different
methodologies, assumptions and inputs in the determination of the primary beneficiary could have a material effect on the amounts presented within the consolidated financial statements.   
    Derivative Financial Instruments    
   Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest
rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit spreads and/or other financial indices. Derivatives may be exchange-traded or contracted in the over-the-counter ( OTC ) market. The Company uses a variety of derivatives, including swaps,
forwards, futures and option contracts, to manage various risks relating to its ongoing business operations. To a lesser extent, the Company uses credit derivatives, such as credit default swaps, to synthetically replicate investment risks and
returns which are not readily available in the cash market. The Company also purchases certain securities, issues certain insurance policies and investment contracts and engages in certain reinsurance agreements that have embedded derivatives.
     Freestanding derivatives are carried in the Company s consolidated balance sheets either as assets
within other invested assets or as liabilities within other liabilities at estimated fair value as determined through the use of quoted market prices for exchange-traded derivatives and interest rate forwards to sell certain to be announced
securities or through the use of pricing models for OTC derivatives. The determination of estimated fair value of freestanding derivatives, when quoted market values are not available, is based on market standard valuation methodologies and inputs
that management believes are consistent with what other market participants would use when pricing the instruments. Derivative valuations can be affected by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial indices, credit
spreads, default risk, nonperformance risk, volatility, liquidity and changes in estimates and assumptions used in the pricing models.      Accruals on derivatives are generally recorded in accrued investment income or within other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. However, accruals that are not expected to settle within one
year are included with the derivative carrying value in other invested assets or other liabilities.      The
Company does not offset the fair value amounts recognized for derivatives executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting agreement.      If a derivative is not designated as an accounting hedge or its use in managing risk does not qualify for hedge accounting, changes in the estimated fair value of the derivative are generally reported in
net derivative gains (losses) except for those (i) in policyholder benefits and claims for economic hedges of variable annuity guarantees included in future policy benefits; (ii) in net investment income for (a) economic hedges of
equity method investments in joint ventures, (b) all derivatives held in relation to the trading portfolios, and (c) derivatives held within contractholder-directed unit-linked investments; (iii) in other revenues for derivatives held
in connection with the Company s mortgage banking activities; and (iv) in other expenses for economic   
         222

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
hedges of foreign currency exposure related to the Company s international subsidiaries. The fluctuations in estimated fair value of derivatives which have not been designated for hedge
accounting can result in significant volatility in net income.      To qualify for hedge accounting, at the
inception of the hedging relationship, the Company formally documents its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedging transaction, as well as its designation of the hedge as either (i) a hedge of the estimated fair value
of a recognized asset or liability ( fair value hedge  (ii) a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability ( cash flow hedge  or
(iii) a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation. In this documentation, the Company sets forth how the hedging instrument is expected to hedge the designated risks related to the hedged item and sets forth the method that will be used
to retrospectively and prospectively assess the hedging instrument s effectiveness and the method which will be used to measure ineffectiveness. A derivative designated as a hedging instrument must be assessed as being highly effective in
offsetting the designated risk of the hedged item. Hedge effectiveness is formally assessed at inception and periodically throughout the life of the designated hedging relationship. Assessments of hedge effectiveness and measurements of
ineffectiveness are also subject to interpretation and estimation and different interpretations or estimates may have a material effect on the amount reported in net income.   
  The accounting for derivatives is complex and interpretations of the primary accounting guidance continue to evolve in
practice. Judgment is applied in determining the availability and application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate accounting treatment under such accounting guidance. If it was determined that hedge accounting designations were not
appropriately applied, reported net income could be materially affected.      Under a fair value hedge, changes in
the estimated fair value of the hedging derivative, including amounts measured as ineffectiveness, and changes in the estimated fair value of the hedged item related to the designated risk being hedged, are reported within net derivative gains
(losses). The estimated fair values of the hedging derivatives are exclusive of any accruals that are separately reported in the consolidated statement of operations within interest income or interest expense to match the location of the hedged
item.      Under a cash flow hedge, changes in the estimated fair value of the hedging derivative measured as
effective are reported within other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of stockholders  equity and the deferred gains or losses on the derivative are reclassified into the consolidated statement of operations when the
Company s earnings are affected by the variability in cash flows of the hedged item. Changes in the estimated fair value of the hedging instrument measured as ineffectiveness are reported within net derivative gains (losses). The estimated fair
values of the hedging derivatives are exclusive of any accruals that are separately reported in the consolidated statement of operations within interest income or interest expense to match the location of the hedged item.   
  In a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, changes in the estimated fair value of the hedging derivative that
are measured as effective are reported within other comprehensive income (loss) consistent with the translation adjustment for the hedged net investment in the foreign operation. Changes in the estimated fair value of the hedging instrument measured
as ineffectiveness are reported within net derivative gains (losses).      The Company discontinues hedge
accounting prospectively when: (i) it is determined that the derivative is no longer highly effective in offsetting changes in the estimated fair value or cash flows of a hedged item; (ii) the derivative expires, is sold, terminated, or
exercised; (iii) it is no longer probable that the hedged forecasted transaction will occur; or (iv) the derivative is de-designated as a hedging instrument.   
  When hedge accounting is discontinued because it is determined that the derivative is not highly effective in offsetting
changes in the estimated fair value or cash flows of a hedged item, the derivative continues to be carried in the consolidated balance sheets at its estimated fair value, with changes in estimated fair value
  
         223

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
recognized currently in net derivative gains (losses). The carrying value of the hedged recognized asset or liability under a fair value hedge is no longer adjusted for changes in its estimated
fair value due to the hedged risk, and the cumulative adjustment to its carrying value is amortized into income over the remaining life of the hedged item. Provided the hedged forecasted transaction is still probable of occurrence, the changes in
estimated fair value of derivatives recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) related to discontinued cash flow hedges are released into the consolidated statements of operations when the Company s earnings are affected by the variability
in cash flows of the hedged item.      When hedge accounting is discontinued because it is no longer probable that
the forecasted transactions will occur on the anticipated date or within two months of that date, the derivative continues to be carried in the consolidated balance sheets at its estimated fair value, with changes in estimated fair value recognized
currently in net derivative gains (losses). Deferred gains and losses of a derivative recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) pursuant to the discontinued cash flow hedge of a forecasted transaction that is no longer probable are recognized
immediately in net derivative gains (losses).      In all other situations in which hedge accounting is
discontinued, the derivative is carried at its estimated fair value in the consolidated balance sheets, with changes in its estimated fair value recognized in the current period as net derivative gains (losses).   
  The Company issues certain products and purchases certain investments that contain embedded derivatives. The Company
assesses each identified embedded derivative to determine whether it is required to be bifurcated. If the instrument would not be accounted for in its entirety at estimated fair value and it is determined that the terms of the embedded derivative
are not clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics of the host contract, and that a separate instrument with the same terms would qualify as a derivative instrument, the embedded derivative is bifurcated from the host contract and
accounted for as a freestanding derivative. Such embedded derivatives are carried in the consolidated balance sheets at estimated fair value with the host contract and changes in their estimated fair value are generally reported in net derivative
gains (losses) except for those in policyholder benefits and claims related to ceded reinsurance of guaranteed minimum income benefits ( GMIB ). If the Company is unable to properly identify and measure an embedded derivative for
separation from its host contract, the entire contract is carried on the balance sheet at estimated fair value, with changes in estimated fair value recognized in the current period in net investment gains (losses) or net investment income.
Additionally, the Company may elect to carry an entire contract on the balance sheet at estimated fair value, with changes in estimated fair value recognized in the current period in net investment gains (losses) or net investment income if that
contract contains an embedded derivative that requires bifurcation.   
    Fair Value    
   As described below, certain assets and liabilities are
measured at estimated fair value in the Company s consolidated balance sheets. In addition, the notes to these consolidated financial statements include further disclosures of estimated fair values. The Company defines fair value as the price
that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. In most
cases, the exit price and the transaction (or entry) price will be the same at initial recognition.   
  Subsequent to initial recognition, fair values are based on unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities
in active markets that are readily and regularly obtainable. When such quoted prices are not available, fair values are based on quoted prices in markets that are not active, quoted prices for similar but not identical assets or liabilities, or
other observable inputs. If these inputs are not available, or observable inputs are not determinative, unobservable inputs and/or adjustments to observable inputs requiring management judgment are used to determine the fair value of assets and
liabilities.   
         224

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The Company considers three broad valuation techniques: (i) the
market approach, (ii) the income approach, and (iii) the cost approach. The Company determines the most appropriate valuation technique to use, given what is being measured and the availability of sufficient inputs, giving priority to
observable inputs. The Company categorizes its assets and liabilities measured at estimated fair value into a three-level hierarchy, based on the significant input with the lowest level in its valuation. The input levels are as follows:   

Level 1  
    Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. The Company defines active markets based on average trading volume
for equity securities. The size of the bid/ask spread is used as an indicator of market activity for fixed maturity securities.          

Level 2  
    Quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly. These inputs can include quoted prices for
similar assets or liabilities other than quoted prices in Level 1, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other significant inputs that are observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data for
substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.          

Level 3  
    Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and are significant to the estimated fair value of the assets or liabilities.
Unobservable inputs reflect the reporting entity s own assumptions about the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.      
    Cash and Cash Equivalents    
   The Company considers all highly liquid securities and other
investments purchased with an original or remaining maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. Cash equivalents are stated at amortized cost, which approximates estimated fair value.   
    Property, Equipment, Leasehold Improvements and Computer Software    
   Property, equipment and leasehold improvements, which are
included in other assets, are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation is determined using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, as appropriate. The estimated life for company
occupied real estate property is generally 40 years. Estimated lives generally range from five to 10 years for leasehold improvements and three to seven years for all other property and equipment. The cost basis of the property, equipment and
leasehold improvements was $2.5 billion and $2.4 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Accumulated depreciation and amortization of property, equipment and leasehold improvements was $1.2 billion at both
December 31, 2011 and 2010. Related depreciation and amortization expense was $199 million, $151 million and $151 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
  Computer software, which is included in other assets, is stated at cost, less accumulated amortization. Purchased
software costs, as well as certain internal and external costs incurred to develop internal-use computer software during the application development stage, are capitalized. Such costs are amortized generally over a four-year period using the
straight-line method. The cost basis of computer software was $2.2 billion and $2.0 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Accumulated amortization of capitalized software was $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Related amortization expense was $217 million, $189 million and $171 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   

         225

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired    
   The Company incurs
significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. Costs that vary with and relate to the production of new business are deferred as deferred policy acquisition costs ( DAC ). Such costs consist principally
of commissions, certain agency expenses, policy issuance expenses and certain advertising costs. Value of business acquired ( VOBA ) is an intangible asset resulting from a business combination that represents the excess of book value over
the estimated fair value of acquired insurance, annuity, and investment-type contracts in-force at the acquisition date. The estimated fair value of the acquired liabilities is based on actuarially determined projections, by each block of business,
of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment returns, nonperformance risk adjustment and other factors. Actual experience on the purchased business
may vary from these projections. The recovery of DAC and VOBA is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. DAC and VOBA are aggregated in the consolidated financial statements for reporting purposes.   
  The Company amortizes DAC for credit life insurance, property and casualty insurance and other short-duration contracts,
which is primarily composed of commissions and certain underwriting expenses, in proportion to historic and future earned premium over the applicable contract term.   
  The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA on life insurance, accident and health and investment-type contracts in proportion to
gross premiums, gross margins or gross profits, depending on the type of contract as described below.      The
Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to non-participating and non-dividend-paying traditional contracts (term insurance, non-participating whole life insurance, traditional group life insurance, non-medical health insurance, and accident and
health insurance) over the appropriate premium paying period in proportion to the present value of actual historic and expected future gross premiums. The present value of expected premiums is based upon the premium requirement of each policy and
assumptions for mortality, morbidity, persistency and investment returns at policy issuance, or policy acquisition (as it relates to VOBA), that include provisions for adverse deviation that are consistent with the assumptions used to calculate
future policyholder benefit liabilities. These assumptions are not revised after policy issuance or acquisition unless the DAC or VOBA balance is deemed to be unrecoverable from future expected profits. Absent a premium deficiency, variability in
amortization after policy issuance or acquisition is caused only by variability in premium volumes.      The
Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to participating, dividend-paying traditional contracts over the estimated lives of the contracts in proportion to actual and expected future gross margins. The amortization includes interest based on rates in
effect at inception or acquisition of the contracts. The future gross margins are dependent principally on investment returns, policyholder dividend scales, mortality, persistency, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance
counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation. For participating contracts within the closed block (dividend paying traditional contracts) future gross margins are also dependent upon changes in the policyholder dividend
obligation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates that investment returns, expenses, persistency and other factor changes, as well as policyholder dividend scales are reasonably likely to impact significantly the rate of DAC and VOBA
amortization. Each reporting period, the Company updates the estimated gross margins with the actual gross margins for that period. When the actual gross margins change from previously estimated gross margins, the cumulative DAC and VOBA
amortization is re-estimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge or credit to current operations. When actual gross margins exceed those previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization will increase, resulting in a current period charge to
earnings. The opposite result occurs when the actual gross margins are below the previously estimated gross margins. Each reporting period, the Company also updates the actual amount of business in-force, which impacts expected future gross margins.
When expected future gross margins are below those previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization will increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the expected future gross margins are above the
  
         226

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
previously estimated expected future gross margins. Each period, the Company also reviews the estimated gross margins for each block of business to determine the recoverability of DAC and VOBA
balances.      The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to fixed and variable universal life contracts and fixed
and variable deferred annuity contracts over the estimated lives of the contracts in proportion to actual and expected future gross profits. The amortization includes interest based on rates in effect at inception or acquisition of the contracts.
The amount of future gross profits is dependent principally upon returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, persistency, interest crediting rates, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance
counterparties, the effect of any hedges used and certain economic variables, such as inflation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates that investment returns, expenses and persistency are reasonably likely to impact significantly the rate of
DAC and VOBA amortization. Each reporting period, the Company updates the estimated gross profits with the actual gross profits for that period. When the actual gross profits change from previously estimated gross profits, the cumulative DAC and
VOBA amortization is re-estimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge or credit to current operations. When actual gross profits exceed those previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization will increase, resulting in a current period charge to
earnings. The opposite result occurs when the actual gross profits are below the previously estimated gross profits. Each reporting period, the Company also updates the actual amount of business remaining in-force, which impacts expected future
gross profits. When expected future gross profits are below those previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization will increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the expected future gross profits
are above the previously estimated expected future gross profits. Each period, the Company also reviews the estimated gross profits for each block of business to determine the recoverability of DAC and VOBA balances.   
  Separate account rates of return on variable universal life contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts affect
in-force account balances on such contracts each reporting period which can result in significant fluctuations in amortization of DAC and VOBA. Returns that are higher than the Company s long-term expectation produce higher account balances,
which increases the Company s future fee expectations and decreases future benefit payment expectations on minimum death and living benefit guarantees, resulting in higher expected future gross profits. The opposite result occurs when returns
are lower than the Company s long-term expectation. The Company s practice to determine the impact of gross profits resulting from returns on separate accounts assumes that long-term appreciation in equity markets is not changed by
short-term market fluctuations, but is only changed when sustained interim deviations are expected. The Company monitors these events and only changes the assumption when its long-term expectation changes.   
  The Company also periodically reviews other long-term assumptions underlying the projections of estimated gross margins
and profits. These include investment returns, policyholder dividend scales, interest crediting rates, mortality, persistency and expenses to administer business. Management annually updates assumptions used in the calculation of estimated gross
margins and profits which may have significantly changed. If the update of assumptions causes expected future gross margins and profits to increase, DAC and VOBA amortization will decrease, resulting in a current period increase to earnings. The
opposite result occurs when the assumption update causes expected future gross margins and profits to decrease.   
  Periodically, the Company modifies product benefits, features, rights or coverages that occur by the exchange of a
contract for a new contract, or by amendment, endorsement, or rider to a contract, or by election or coverage within a contract. If such modification, referred to as an internal replacement, substantially changes the contract, the associated DAC or
VOBA is written off immediately through income and any new deferrable costs associated with the replacement contract are deferred. If the modification does not substantially change the contract, the DAC or VOBA amortization on the original contract
will continue and any acquisition costs associated with the related modification are expensed.   

         227

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Sales Inducements    
   The Company generally has two different types of sales
inducements which are included in other assets: (i) the policyholder receives a bonus whereby the policyholder s initial account balance is increased by an amount equal to a specified percentage of the customer s deposit; and
(ii) the policyholder receives a higher interest rate using a dollar cost averaging method than would have been received based on the normal general account interest rate credited. The Company defers sales inducements and amortizes them over
the life of the policy using the same methodology and assumptions used to amortize DAC. The amortization of sales inducements is included in policyholder benefits and claims. Each year, or more frequently if circumstances indicate a potentially
significant recoverability issue exists, the Company reviews the deferred sales inducements to determine the recoverability of these balances.   
    Value of Distribution Agreements and Customer Relationships Acquired    
   Value of distribution agreements acquired ( VODA )
is reported in other assets and represents the present value of expected future profits associated with the expected future business derived from the distribution agreements acquired as part of a business combination. Value of customer relationships
acquired ( VOCRA ) is also reported in other assets and represents the present value of the expected future profits associated with the expected future business acquired through existing customers of the acquired company or business. The
VODA and VOCRA associated with past acquisitions are amortized over useful lives ranging from 10 to 40 years and such amortization is included in other expenses. Each year, or more frequently if circumstances indicate a potentially significant
recoverability issue exists, the Company reviews VODA and VOCRA to determine the recoverability of these balances.   
    Goodwill    
   Goodwill is the excess of cost over the estimated
fair value of net assets acquired which represents the future economic benefits arising from such net assets acquired that could not be individually identified. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least annually or more
frequently if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that there may be justification for conducting an interim test. The Company performs its annual goodwill impairment testing during the third quarter of
each year based upon data as of the close of the second quarter. Goodwill associated with a business acquisition is not tested for impairment during the year the business is acquired unless there is a significant identified impairment event.
     Impairment testing is performed using the fair value approach, which requires the use of estimates and
judgment, at the  reporting unit  level. A reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level below the operating segment, if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level. For
purposes of goodwill impairment testing, a significant portion of goodwill within Corporate   Other is allocated to reporting units within the Company s segments.   
  For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value,
there might be an indication of impairment. In such instances, the implied fair value of the goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill that would be determined in a business acquisition. The excess of the carrying value of
goodwill over the implied fair value of goodwill would be recognized as an impairment and recorded as a charge against net income.      In performing the Company s goodwill impairment tests, the estimated fair values of the reporting units are first determined using a market multiple approach. When further corroboration is required,
the Company uses a discounted cash flow approach. For reporting units which are particularly sensitive to market assumptions, such as the retirement products and individual life reporting units, the Company may use additional valuation methodologies
to estimate the reporting units  fair values.   
         228

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The key inputs, judgments and assumptions necessary in determining
estimated fair value of the reporting units include projected operating earnings, current book value (with and without accumulated other comprehensive income), the level of economic capital required to support the mix of business, long-term growth
rates, comparative market multiples, the account value of in-force business, projections of new and renewal business, as well as margins on such business, the level of interest rates, credit spreads, equity market levels and the discount rate that
the Company believes is appropriate for the respective reporting unit. The estimated fair values of the retirement products and individual life reporting units are particularly sensitive to the equity market levels.   
  When testing goodwill for impairment, the Company also considers its market capitalization in relation to the aggregate
estimated fair value of its reporting units.      The Company applies significant judgment when determining the
estimated fair value of the Company s reporting units and when assessing the relationship of market capitalization to the aggregate estimated fair value of its reporting units. The valuation methodologies utilized are subject to key judgments
and assumptions that are sensitive to change. Estimates of fair value are inherently uncertain and represent only management s reasonable expectation regarding future developments. These estimates and the judgments and assumptions upon which
the estimates are based will, in all likelihood, differ in some respects from actual future results. Declines in the estimated fair value of the Company s reporting units could result in goodwill impairments in future periods which could
materially adversely affect the Company s results of operations or financial position.      On an ongoing
basis, the Company evaluates potential triggering events that may affect the estimated fair value of the Company s reporting units to assess whether any goodwill impairment exists. Deteriorating or adverse market conditions for certain
reporting units may have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units and could result in future impairments of goodwill.      See Note 7 for discussion of goodwill impairment testing during 2011.   
    Liability for Future Policy Benefits and PABs    
   The Company establishes liabilities for amounts payable
under insurance policies, including traditional life insurance, traditional annuities, certain accident and health, and non-medical health insurance. Generally, amounts are payable over an extended period of time and related liabilities are
calculated as the present value of future expected benefits to be paid reduced by the present value of future expected premiums. Such liabilities are established based on methods and underlying assumptions in accordance with GAAP and applicable
actuarial standards. Principal assumptions used in the establishment of liabilities for future policy benefits are mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal, retirement, disability incidence, disability terminations, investment returns, inflation,
expenses and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective product type and geographical area. These assumptions are established at the time the policy is issued and are intended to estimate the experience for the period the policy
benefits are payable. Utilizing these assumptions, liabilities are established on a block of business basis. For long duration insurance contracts, assumptions such as mortality, morbidity and interest rates are  locked in  upon the
issuance of new business. However, significant adverse changes in experience on such contracts may require us to establish premium deficiency reserves. Such reserves are determined based on assumptions at the time the premium deficiency reserve is
established and do not include a provision for adverse deviation.      Premium deficiency reserves may also be
established for short duration contracts to provide for expected future losses. These reserves on short duration contracts are based on actuarial estimates of the amount of loss inherent in that period, including losses incurred for which claims
have not been reported. The provisions for   
         229

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
unreported claims are calculated using studies that measure the historical length of time between the incurred date of a claim and its eventual reporting to the company. Anticipated investment
income is considered in the calculation of premium deficiency losses for short duration contracts.      Future
policy benefit liabilities for participating traditional life insurance policies are equal to the aggregate of (i) net level premium reserves for death and endowment policy benefits (calculated based upon the non-forfeiture interest rate,
ranging from 3% to 7% for domestic business and 1% to 18% for international business, and mortality rates guaranteed in calculating the cash surrender values described in such contracts); and (ii) the liability for terminal dividends for
domestic business.      Participating business represented approximately 6% of the Company s life insurance
in-force at both December 31, 2011 and 2010. Participating policies represented approximately 21%, 26% and 28% of gross life insurance premiums for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
  Future policy benefit liabilities for non-participating traditional life insurance policies are equal to the aggregate of
the present value of expected future benefit payments and related expenses less the present value of expected future net premiums. Assumptions as to mortality and persistency are based upon the Company s experience when the basis of the
liability is established. Interest rate assumptions for the aggregate future policy benefit liabilities range from 2% to 10% for domestic business and 1% to 14% for international business.   
  Future policy benefit liabilities for individual and group traditional fixed annuities after annuitization are equal to
the present value of expected future payments. Interest rate assumptions used in establishing such liabilities range from 2% to 11% for domestic business and 2% to 12% for international business.   
  Future policy benefit liabilities for non-medical health insurance, primarily related to domestic business, are
calculated using the net level premium method and assumptions as to future morbidity, withdrawals and interest, which provide a margin for adverse deviation. Interest rate assumptions used in establishing such liabilities range from 4% to 7%.
     Future policy benefit liabilities for disabled lives are estimated using the present value of benefits method
and experience assumptions as to claim terminations, expenses and interest. Interest rate assumptions used in establishing such liabilities range from 2% to 9% for domestic business and 2% to 9% for international business.   
  Liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses for property and casualty insurance are included in future policyholder
benefits and represent the amount estimated for claims that have been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not reported. Other policy-related balances include claims that have been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not
reported on life and non-medical health insurance. Liabilities for unpaid claims are estimated based upon the Company s historical experience and other actuarial assumptions that consider the effects of current developments, anticipated trends
and risk management programs, reduced for anticipated salvage and subrogation. The effects of changes in such estimated liabilities are included in the results of operations in the period in which the changes occur.   
  Liabilities for universal and variable life secondary guarantees and paid-up guarantees are determined by estimating the
expected value of death benefits payable when the account balance is projected to be zero and recognizing those benefits ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. The assumptions used in estimating the secondary and
paid-up guarantee liabilities are consistent with those used for amortizing DAC, and are thus subject to the same variability and risk. The assumptions of investment performance and volatility for variable products are consistent with historical
Standard   Poor s ( S P ) experience of the appropriate underlying equity index, such as the S P 500 Index. The benefits used in calculating the liabilities are based on the average benefits payable over a range of
scenarios.   
         230

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Future policy benefit liabilities are established for certain variable
annuity products with guaranteed minimum benefits as described below under    Variable Annuity Guaranteed Minimum Benefits.       The Company regularly reviews its estimates of actuarial liabilities for future policy benefits and compares them with its actual experience. Differences between actual experience and the assumptions used
in pricing these policies and guarantees, and in the establishment of the related liabilities, result in changes in the additional liability balances with related charges or credits to benefit expenses in the period in which the changes occur.
     PABs relate to investment-type contracts, universal life-type policies and certain guaranteed minimum
benefits. Investment-type contracts principally include traditional individual fixed annuities in the accumulation phase and non-variable group annuity contracts. PABs for these contracts are equal to: (i) policy account values, which consist
of an accumulation of gross premium payments and investment performance; (ii) credited interest, ranging from 1% to 13% for domestic business and 1% to 14% for international business, less expenses, mortality charges and withdrawals; and
(iii) fair value adjustments relating to business combinations.   

    Variable Annuity Guaranteed Minimum Benefits
      The Company issues, directly and through assumed reinsurance, certain variable annuity products with
guaranteed minimum benefits that provide the policyholder a minimum return based on their initial deposit (i.e., the benefit base) less withdrawals. In some cases the benefit base may be increased by additional deposits, bonus amounts, accruals or
optional market value resets. These guarantees are accounted for as insurance liabilities or as embedded derivatives depending on how and when the benefit is paid. Specifically, a guarantee is accounted for as an embedded derivative if a guarantee
is paid without requiring (i) the occurrence of specific insurable event, or (ii) the policyholder to annuitize. Alternatively, a guarantee is accounted for as an insurance liability if the guarantee is paid only upon either (i) the
occurrence of a specific insurable event, or (ii) annuitization. In certain cases, a guarantee may have elements of both an insurance liability and an embedded derivative and in such cases the guarantee is accounted for under a split of the two
models.      These guarantees include:   

Guaranteed minimum death benefit ( GMDB ) that guarantees the contractholder a return of their purchase payment upon death even if the
account value is reduced to zero. An enhanced death benefit may be available for an additional fee.          

GMIB that provides the contractholder, after a specified period of time determined at the time of issuance of the variable annuity contract, with a
minimum accumulation of their purchase payments, even if the account value is reduced to zero, that can be annuitized to receive a monthly income stream that is not less than a specified amount. Certain of these contracts also provide for a
guaranteed lump sum return of purchase premium in lieu of the annuitization benefit.          

Guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits ( GMWB ) that guarantee the contractholder a return of their purchase payment via partial
withdrawals, even if the account value is reduced to zero, provided that the contractholder s cumulative withdrawals in a contract year do not exceed a certain limit. Certain of these contacts include guaranteed withdrawals that are life
contingent.          

Guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits ( GMAB ) that provide the contractholder, after a specified period of time determined at the time
of issuance of the variable annuity contract, with a minimum accumulation of their purchase payments even if the account value is reduced to zero.      
         231

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Guarantees accounted for as insurance liabilities in future policy
benefits include GMDB, the portion of GMIB that require annuitization, and the life-contingent portion of certain GMWB. These liabilities are established as follows:   
  GMDB liabilities are determined by estimating the expected value of death benefits in excess of the
projected account balance and recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. The assumptions used in estimating the GMDB liabilities are consistent with those used for amortizing DAC, and are thus
subject to the same variability and risk. The assumptions of investment performance and volatility are consistent with the historical experience of the appropriate underlying equity index, such as the S P 500 Index. The benefit assumptions used
in calculating the liabilities are based on the average benefits payable over a range of scenarios.      GMIB liabilities are determined by estimating the expected value of the income benefits in excess of the projected account balance at any future date of annuitization and recognizing the excess ratably
over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. The assumptions used for estimating the GMIB liabilities are consistent with those used for estimating the GMDB liabilities. In addition, the calculation of guaranteed annuitization
benefit liabilities incorporates an assumption for the percentage of the potential annuitizations that may be elected by the contractholder. Certain GMIB have settlement features that result in a portion of that guarantee being accounted for as an
embedded derivative and are recorded in PABs as described below.      The liability for the life contingent
portion of GMWB is determined based on the expected value of the life contingent payments and expected assessments using assumptions consistent with those used for estimating the GMDB liabilities.   
  Guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives in PABs include the non life-contingent portion of GMWB, GMAB and the
portion of certain GMIB that do not require annuitization. These guarantees are recorded at estimated fair value separately from the host variable annuity with changes in estimated fair value reported in net derivative gains (losses). At inception,
the Company attributes to the embedded derivative a portion of the projected future guarantee fees to be collected from the policyholder equal to the present value of projected future guaranteed benefits. Any additional fees represent
 excess  fees and are reported in universal life and investment-type product policy fees.      The
estimated fair values of these embedded derivatives are then determined based on the present value of projected future benefits minus the present value of projected future fees. The projections of future benefits and future fees require capital
market and actuarial assumptions including expectations concerning policyholder behavior. A risk neutral valuation methodology is used under which the cash flows from the guarantees are projected under multiple capital market scenarios using
observable risk free rates. The valuation of these embedded derivatives also includes an adjustment for the Company s nonperformance risk and risk margins related to non-capital market inputs. The nonperformance adjustment, which is captured as
a spread over the risk free rate in determining the discount rate to discount the cash flows of the liability, is determined by taking into consideration publicly available information relating to spreads in the secondary market for MetLife,
Inc. s debt, including related credit default swaps. These observable spreads are then adjusted, as necessary, to reflect the priority of these liabilities and the claims paying ability of the issuing insurance subsidiaries compared to MetLife,
Inc. Risk margins are established to capture the non-capital market risks of the instrument which represent the additional compensation a market participant would require to assume the risks related to the uncertainties in certain actuarial
assumptions. The establishment of risk margins requires the use of significant management judgment, including assumptions of the amount and cost of capital needed to cover the guarantees.   
         232

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   These guarantees may be more costly than expected in volatile or
declining equity markets. Market conditions including, but not limited to, changes in interest rates, equity indices, market volatility and foreign currency exchange rates, changes in nonperformance risk, variations in actuarial assumptions
regarding policyholder behavior, mortality and risk margins related to non-capital market inputs may result in significant fluctuations in the estimated fair value of the guarantees that could materially affect net income.   
  The Company ceded the risk associated with certain of the GMIB and GMWB described in the preceding paragraphs. With
respect to GMIB, a portion of the directly written GMIB guarantees that are accounted for as insurance (i.e., not as embedded derivatives) but where the reinsurance agreements contain embedded derivatives. These embedded derivatives are included in
premiums, reinsurance, and other receivables in the consolidated balance sheet with changes in estimated fair value reported in net derivative gains (losses) or policyholder benefits and claims in the consolidated statements of operations, depending
on the classification of the direct risk. The value of the embedded derivatives on the ceded risk is determined using a methodology consistent with that described previously for the guarantees directly written by the Company with the exception of
the input for nonperformance risk that reflects the credit of the reinsurer.   
    Other Policy-Related Balances    
   Other policy-related balances include policy and contract
claims, unearned revenue liabilities, premiums received in advance, negative VOBA, policyholder dividends due and unpaid and policyholder dividends left on deposit.   
  The liability for policy and contract claims generally relates to incurred but not reported death, disability, long-term
care ( LTC ) and dental claims, as well as claims which have been reported but not yet settled. The liability for these claims is based on the Company s estimated ultimate cost of settling all claims. The Company derives estimates for
the development of incurred but not reported claims principally from actuarial analyses of historical patterns of claims and claims development for each line of business. The methods used to determine these estimates are continually reviewed.
Adjustments resulting from this continuous review process and differences between estimates and payments for claims are recognized in policyholder benefits and claims expense in the period in which the estimates are changed or payments are made.
     The unearned revenue liability relates to universal life-type and investment-type products and represents
policy charges for services to be provided in future periods. The charges are deferred as unearned revenue and amortized using the product s estimated gross profits and margins, similar to DAC. Such amortization is recorded in universal life
and investment-type product policy fees.      The Company accounts for the prepayment of premiums on its
individual life, group life and health contracts as premium received in advance and applies the cash received to premiums when due.      For certain acquired blocks of business, the estimated fair value of the in-force contract obligations exceeded the book value of assumed in-force insurance policy liabilities, resulting in negative VOBA,
which is presented separately from VOBA as an additional insurance liability. The fair value of the in-force contract obligations is based on actuarial determined projections by each block of business. Negative VOBA is amortized over the policy
period in proportion to the approximate consumption of losses included in the liability usually expressed in terms of insurance in-force or account value. Such amortization is recorded as a contra-expense in other expenses in the consolidated
statements of operations.      Also included in other policy-related balances are policyholder dividends due and
unpaid on participating policies and policyholder dividends left on deposit. Such liabilities are presented at amounts contractually due to policyholders.   

         233

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Recognition of Insurance Revenue and Related Benefits    
   Premiums related to traditional life and annuity
policies with life contingencies and long-duration accident and health and credit insurance policies are recognized as revenues when due from policyholders. Policyholder benefits and expenses are provided against such revenues to recognize profits
over the estimated lives of the policies. When premiums are due over a significantly shorter period than the period over which benefits are provided, any excess profit is deferred and recognized into operations in a constant relationship to
insurance in-force or, for annuities, the amount of expected future policy benefit payments.      Premiums related
to short-duration non-medical health and disability, accident and health, and certain credit life insurance contracts are recognized on a pro rata basis over the applicable contract term.   
  Deposits related to universal life-type and investment-type products are credited to PABs. Revenues from such contracts
consist of amounts assessed against PABs for mortality, policy administration and surrender charges and are recorded in universal life and investment-type product policy fees in the period in which services are provided. Amounts that are charged to
operations include interest credited and benefit claims incurred in excess of related PABs.      Premiums related
to property and casualty contracts are recognized as revenue on a pro rata basis over the applicable contract term. Unearned premiums, representing the portion of premium written relating to the unexpired coverage, are also included in future policy
benefits.      Premiums, policy fees, policyholder benefits and expenses are presented net of reinsurance.
     The portion of fees allocated to embedded derivatives described previously is recognized within net
derivative gains (losses) as part of the estimated fair value of embedded derivatives.   
    Other Revenues    
   Other revenues include, in addition to items described elsewhere herein,
advisory fees, broker-dealer commissions and fees and administrative service fees. Such fees and commissions are recognized in the period in which services are performed. Other revenues also include changes in account value relating to
corporate-owned life insurance ( COLI ). Under certain COLI contracts, if the Company reports certain unlikely adverse results in its consolidated financial statements, withdrawals would not be immediately available and would be subject to
market value adjustment, which could result in a reduction of the account value.   
    Policyholder Dividends    
   Policyholder dividends are approved annually by the insurance
subsidiaries  boards of directors. The aggregate amount of policyholder dividends is related to actual interest, mortality, morbidity and expense experience for the year, as well as management s judgment as to the appropriate level of
statutory surplus to be retained by the insurance subsidiaries.   
    Income Taxes    
   MetLife, Inc. and its includable life insurance and non-life insurance
subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return in accordance with the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ). Non-includable subsidiaries file either separate individual corporate tax
returns or separate consolidated tax returns.   
         234

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The Company s accounting for income taxes represents
management s best estimate of various events and transactions.      Deferred tax assets and liabilities
resulting from temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities are measured at the balance sheet date using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years the temporary differences
are expected to reverse.      For U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Company made an election under
Section 338 of the Code (the  Section 338 Election ) relating to the Acquisition. Pursuant to such election, the historical tax basis in the acquired assets and liabilities was adjusted to the fair market value as of the Acquisition
Date resulting in a change to the related deferred income taxes. See Note 15.      The realization of deferred tax
assets depends upon the existence of sufficient taxable income within the carryback or carryforward periods under the tax law in the applicable tax jurisdiction. Valuation allowances are established when management determines, based on available
information, that it is more likely than not that deferred income tax assets will not be realized. Factors in management s determination include the performance of the business and its ability to generate capital gains. Significant judgment is
required in determining whether valuation allowances should be established, as well as the amount of such allowances. When making such determination, consideration is given to, among other things, the following:   

(i)  
    future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards;      

(ii)  
    future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences;      

(iii)  
    taxable income in prior carryback years; and      

(iv)  
    tax planning strategies.         The Company may be required to change its provision for income taxes in certain circumstances. Examples of such circumstances include when estimates used in determining valuation allowances on deferred
tax assets significantly change or when receipt of new information indicates the need for adjustment in valuation allowances. Additionally, future events, such as changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such laws or regulations,
could have an impact on the provision for income tax and the effective tax rate. Any such changes could significantly affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements in the year these changes occur.   
  The Company determines whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the
appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial statements. A tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. Unrecognized
tax benefits due to tax uncertainties that do not meet the threshold are included within other liabilities and are charged to earnings in the period that such determination is made.   
  The Company classifies interest recognized as interest expense and penalties recognized as a component of income tax.
  
    Reinsurance    
   The Company enters into reinsurance agreements primarily as a
purchaser of reinsurance for its various insurance products and also as a provider of reinsurance for some insurance products issued by third parties.      For each of its reinsurance agreements, the Company determines whether the agreement provides indemnification against loss or liability relating to insurance risk in accordance with applicable accounting
standards. The Company reviews all contractual features, particularly those that may limit the amount of insurance risk to which the reinsurer is subject or features that delay the timely reimbursement of claims.   
         235

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   For reinsurance of existing in-force blocks of long-duration contracts
that transfer significant insurance risk, the difference, if any, between the amounts paid (received), and the liabilities ceded (assumed) related to the underlying contracts is considered the net cost of reinsurance at the inception of the
reinsurance agreement. The net cost of reinsurance is recorded as an adjustment to DAC and recognized as a component of other expenses on a basis consistent with the way the acquisition costs on the underlying reinsured contracts would be
recognized. Subsequent amounts paid (received) on the reinsurance of in-force blocks, as well as amounts paid (received) related to new business, are recorded as ceded (assumed) premiums and ceded (assumed) future policy benefit liabilities are
established.      For prospective reinsurance of short-duration contracts that meet the criteria for reinsurance
accounting, amounts paid (received) are recorded as ceded (assumed) premiums and ceded (assumed) unearned premiums and are reflected as a component of premiums, reinsurance and other receivables (future policy benefits). Such amounts are amortized
through earned premiums over the remaining contract period in proportion to the amount of protection provided. For retroactive reinsurance of short-duration contracts that meet the criteria of reinsurance accounting, amounts paid (received) in
excess of (which do not exceed) the related insurance liabilities ceded (assumed) are recognized immediately as a loss. Any gains on such retroactive agreements are deferred and recorded in other liabilities. The gains are amortized primarily using
the recovery method.      The assumptions used to account for both long and short-duration reinsurance agreements
are consistent with those used for the underlying contracts. Ceded policyholder and contract related liabilities, other than those currently due, are reported gross on the balance sheet.   
  Amounts currently recoverable under reinsurance agreements are included in premiums, reinsurance and other receivables
and amounts currently payable are included in other liabilities. Such assets and liabilities relating to reinsurance agreements with the same reinsurer may be recorded net on the balance sheet, if a right of offset exists within the reinsurance
agreement. In the event that reinsurers do not meet their obligations to the Company under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, reinsurance balances recoverable could become uncollectible. In such instances, reinsurance recoverable balances are
stated net of allowances for uncollectible reinsurance.      Premiums, fees and policyholder benefits and claims
include amounts assumed under reinsurance agreements and are net of reinsurance ceded. Amounts received from reinsurers for policy administration are reported in other revenues.   
  If the Company determines that a reinsurance agreement does not expose the reinsurer to a reasonable possibility of a
significant loss from insurance risk, the Company records the agreement using the deposit method of accounting. Deposits received are included in other liabilities and deposits made are included within premiums, reinsurance and other receivables. As
amounts are paid or received, consistent with the underlying contracts, the deposit assets or liabilities are adjusted. Interest on such deposits is recorded as other revenues or other expenses, as appropriate. Periodically, the Company evaluates
the adequacy of the expected payments or recoveries and adjusts the deposit asset or liability through other revenues or other expenses, as appropriate.      Accounting for reinsurance requires extensive use of assumptions and estimates, particularly related to the future performance of the underlying business and the potential impact of counterparty credit
risks. The Company periodically reviews actual and anticipated experience compared to the aforementioned assumptions used to establish assets and liabilities relating to ceded and assumed reinsurance and evaluates the financial strength of
counterparties to its reinsurance agreements using criteria similar to that evaluated in the security impairment process discussed previously.      Cessions under reinsurance agreements do not discharge the Company s obligations as the primary insurer.   

         236

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Employee Benefit Plans    
   Certain subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. (the
 Subsidiaries ) sponsor and/or administer various plans that provide defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefits covering eligible employees and sales representatives. Measurement dates used for all of the Subsidiaries 
defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans correspond with the fiscal year ends of sponsoring Subsidiaries, which are December 31 for U.S. Subsidiaries and November 30 for most foreign Subsidiaries.   
  The U.S. pension benefits are provided utilizing either a traditional formula or cash balance formula. The traditional
formula provides benefits based upon years of credited service and either final average or career average earnings. The cash balance formula utilizes hypothetical or notional accounts which credit participants with benefits equal to a percentage of
eligible pay, as well as earnings credits, determined annually based upon the average annual rate of interest on 30-year U.S. Treasury securities, for each account balance. The non-U.S. pension plans generally provide benefits based either upon
years of credited service and earnings preceding retirement or on points earned on job grades and other factors related to years of service.      The Subsidiaries also provide certain postemployment benefits and certain postretirement medical and life insurance benefits for retired employees. Employees of the Subsidiaries who were hired prior to
2003 (or, in certain cases, rehired during or after 2003) and meet age and service criteria while working for one of the Subsidiaries, may become eligible for these other postretirement benefits, at various levels, in accordance with the
applicable plans. Virtually all retirees, or their beneficiaries, contribute a portion of the total cost of postretirement medical benefits. Employees hired after 2003 are not eligible for any employer subsidy for postretirement medical benefits.
     The projected pension benefit obligation ( PBO ) is defined as the actuarially calculated present
value of vested and non-vested pension benefits accrued based on future salary levels. The accumulated pension benefit obligation ( ABO ) is the actuarial present value of vested and non-vested pension benefits accrued based on current
salary levels. Obligations, both PBO and ABO, of the defined benefit pension plans are determined using a variety of actuarial assumptions, from which actual results may vary, as described below.   
  The expected postretirement plan benefit obligations ( EPBO ) represent the actuarial present value of all
other postretirement benefits expected to be paid after retirement to employees and their dependents and is used in measuring the periodic postretirement benefit expense. The accumulated postretirement plan benefit obligations ( APBO )
represent the actuarial present value of future other postretirement benefits attributed to employee services rendered through a particular date and is the valuation basis upon which liabilities are established. The APBO is determined using a
variety of actuarial assumptions, from which actual results may vary, as described below.      The Company
recognizes the funded status of the PBO for pension plans and the APBO for other postretirement plans for each of its plans in the consolidated balance sheets. The actuarial gains or losses, prior service costs and credits and the remaining net
transition asset or obligation that had not yet been included in net periodic benefit costs are charged, net of income tax, to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).   
  Net periodic benefit cost is determined using management estimates and actuarial assumptions to derive service cost,
interest cost, and expected return on plan assets for a particular year. Net periodic benefit cost also includes the applicable amortization of any prior service cost (credit) arising from the increase (decrease) in prior years  benefit costs
due to plan amendments or initiation of new plans. These costs are amortized into net periodic benefit cost over the expected service years of employees whose benefits are affected by such plan amendments. Actual experience related to plan assets
and/or the benefit obligations may differ from that   
         237

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
originally assumed when determining net periodic benefit cost for a particular period, resulting in gains or losses. To the extent such aggregate gains or losses exceed 10 percent of the greater
of the benefit obligations or the market-related asset value of the plans, they are amortized into net periodic benefit cost over the expected service years of employees expected to receive benefits under the plans.   
  The obligations and expenses associated with these plans require an extensive use of assumptions such as the discount
rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, rate of future compensation increases, healthcare cost trend rates, as well as assumptions regarding participant demographics such as rate and age of retirements, withdrawal rates and mortality.
Management, in consultation with its external consulting actuarial firms, determines these assumptions based upon a variety of factors such as historical performance of the plan and its assets, currently available market and industry data and
expected benefit payout streams. The assumptions used may differ materially from actual results due to, among other factors, changing market and economic conditions and changes in participant demographics. These differences may have a significant
effect on the Company s consolidated financial statements and liquidity.      The Subsidiaries also sponsor
defined contribution savings and investment plans ( SIP ) for substantially all employees under which a portion of employee contributions is matched. Applicable matching contributions are made each payroll period. Accordingly, the Company
recognizes compensation cost for current matching contributions. As all contributions are transferred currently as earned to the SIP trust, no liability for matching contributions is recognized in the consolidated balance sheets.   
    Stock-Based Compensation    
   As more fully described in Note 18,
the Company grants certain employees and directors stock-based compensation awards under various plans that are subject to specific vesting conditions. The cost of all stock-based transactions is measured at fair value at grant date and recognized
over the period during which a grantee is required to provide goods or services in exchange for the award. Although the terms of the Company s stock-based plans do not accelerate vesting upon retirement, or the attainment of retirement
eligibility, the requisite service period subsequent to attaining such eligibility is considered nonsubstantive. Accordingly, the Company recognizes compensation expense related to stock-based awards over the shorter of the requisite service period
or the period to attainment of retirement eligibility. An estimation of future forfeitures of stock-based awards is incorporated into the determination of compensation expense when recognizing expense over the requisite service period.   
    Foreign Currency    
   Assets, liabilities and operations of foreign
affiliates and subsidiaries are recorded based on the functional currency of each entity. The determination of the functional currency is made based on the appropriate economic and management indicators. With the exception of certain foreign
operations, primarily Japan, where multiple functional currencies exist, the local currencies of foreign operations are the functional currencies. Assets and liabilities of foreign affiliates and subsidiaries are translated from the functional
currency to U.S. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at each year-end and income and expense accounts are translated at the average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. The resulting translation adjustments are charged or credited
directly to other comprehensive income or loss, net of applicable taxes. Gains and losses from foreign currency transactions, including the effect of re-measurement of monetary assets and liabilities to the appropriate functional currency, are
reported as part of net investment gains (losses) in the period in which they occur.   

         238

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Discontinued Operations    
   The results of operations of a component of the Company that either
has been disposed of or is classified as held-for-sale are reported in discontinued operations if the operations and cash flows of the component have been or will be eliminated from the ongoing operations of the Company as a result of the disposal
transaction and the Company will not have any significant continuing involvement in the operations of the component after the disposal transaction.   
    Earnings Per Common Share    
   Basic earnings per common share are computed based on the weighted average
number of common shares, or their equivalent, outstanding during the period. The difference between the number of shares assumed issued and number of shares assumed purchased represents the dilutive shares. Diluted earnings per common share include
the dilutive effect of the assumed: (i) exercise or issuance of stock-based awards using the treasury stock method; (ii) settlement of stock purchase contracts underlying common equity units using the treasury stock method; and
(iii) settlement of accelerated common stock repurchase contracts. Under the treasury stock method, exercise or issuance of stock-based awards and settlement of the stock purchase contracts underlying common equity units is assumed to occur
with the proceeds used to purchase common stock at the average market price for the period. See Notes 14, 18 and 20.   
    Litigation Contingencies    
   The Company is a party to a number of legal actions and is
involved in a number of regulatory investigations. Given the inherent unpredictability of these matters, it is difficult to estimate the impact on the Company s financial position. Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has
been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Except as otherwise disclosed in Note 16, legal costs are recognized in other expenses as incurred. On a quarterly and annual basis, the Company reviews relevant information with
respect to liabilities for litigation, regulatory investigations and litigation-related contingencies to be reflected in the Company s consolidated financial statements. It is possible that an adverse outcome in certain of the Company s
litigation and regulatory investigations, or the use of different assumptions in the determination of amounts recorded, could have a material effect upon the Company s consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual
periods.   
    Separate Accounts    
   Separate accounts are established in conformity with insurance laws and
are generally not chargeable with liabilities that arise from any other business of the Company. Separate account assets are subject to general account claims only to the extent the value of such assets exceeds the separate account liabilities.
Assets within the Company s separate accounts primarily include: mutual funds, fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage loans, derivatives, hedge funds, other limited partnership interests, short-term investments and cash and cash
equivalents. The Company reports separately, as assets and liabilities, investments held in separate accounts and liabilities of the separate accounts if (i) such separate accounts are legally recognized; (ii) assets supporting the
contract liabilities are legally insulated from the Company s general account liabilities; (iii) investments are directed by the contractholder; and (iv) all investment performance, net of contract fees and assessments, is passed
through to the contractholder. The Company reports separate account assets meeting such criteria at their fair value which is based on the estimated fair values of the underlying assets comprising the portfolios of an individual separate account.
Investment performance (including investment income, net investment gains (losses) and changes in unrealized gains (losses)) and the corresponding amounts credited to contractholders of such separate accounts are offset within the same line in the
consolidated statements of operations. Separate accounts   
         239

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
credited with a contractual investment return are combined on a line-by-line basis with the Company s general account assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the accounting for these
investments is consistent with the methodologies described herein for similar financial instruments held within the general account. Unit-linked separate account investments which are directed by contractholders but do not meet one or more of the
other above criteria are included in trading and other securities.      The Company s revenues reflect fees
charged to the separate accounts, including mortality charges, risk charges, policy administration fees, investment management fees and surrender charges. Such fees are included in universal life and investment-type product policy fees in the
consolidated statements of operations.   
     Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements     
   Financial Instruments       Effective July 1, 2011, the Company adopted new guidance regarding accounting for troubled debt restructurings. This guidance clarifies whether a creditor has granted a concession and whether a
debtor is experiencing financial difficulties for the purpose of determining when a restructuring constitutes a troubled debt restructuring. Additionally, the guidance prohibits creditors from using the borrower s effective rate test to
evaluate whether a concession has been granted to the borrower. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements. See also expanded disclosures in Note 3.   
  Effective January 1, 2011, the Company adopted new guidance regarding accounting for investment funds determined to
be VIEs. Under this guidance, an insurance entity would not be required to consolidate a voting-interest investment fund when it holds the majority of the voting interests of the fund through its separate accounts. In addition, an insurance entity
would not consider the interests held through separate accounts for the benefit of policyholders in the insurer s evaluation of its economic interest in a VIE, unless the separate account contractholder is a related party. The adoption did not
have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.      Effective December 31,
2010, the Company adopted guidance regarding disclosures about the credit quality of financing receivables and valuation allowances for credit losses, including credit quality indicators. Such disclosures must be disaggregated by portfolio segment
or class based on how a company develops its valuation allowances for credit losses and how it manages its credit exposure. The Company has provided all material required disclosures in its consolidated financial statements.   
  Effective July 1, 2010, the Company adopted guidance regarding accounting for embedded credit derivatives within
structured securities. This guidance clarifies the type of embedded credit derivative that is exempt from embedded derivative bifurcation requirements. Specifically, embedded credit derivatives resulting only from subordination of one financial
instrument to another continue to qualify for the scope exception. Embedded credit derivative features other than subordination must be analyzed to determine whether they require bifurcation and separate accounting. As a result of the adoption of
this guidance, the Company elected FVO for certain structured securities that were previously accounted for as fixed maturity securities. Upon adoption, the Company reclassified $50 million of securities from fixed maturity securities to trading and
other securities. These securities had cumulative unrealized losses of $10 million, net of income tax, which was recognized as a cumulative effect adjustment to decrease retained earnings with a corresponding increase to accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) as of July 1, 2010.      Effective January 1, 2010, the Company adopted
guidance related to financial instrument transfers and consolidation of VIEs. The financial instrument transfer guidance eliminates the concept of a qualified special purpose entity ( QSPE ), eliminates the guaranteed mortgage
securitization exception, changes the criteria for   
         240

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
achieving sale accounting when transferring a financial asset and changes the initial recognition of retained beneficial interests. The new consolidation guidance changes the definition of the
primary beneficiary, as well as the method of determining whether an entity is a primary beneficiary of a VIE from a quantitative model to a qualitative model. Under the new qualitative model, the entity that has both the ability to direct the most
significant activities of the VIE and the obligation to absorb losses or receive benefits that could be significant to the VIE is considered to be the primary beneficiary of the VIE. The guidance requires a quarterly reassessment, as well as
enhanced disclosures, including the effects of a company s involvement with VIEs on its financial statements.      As a result of the adoption of this guidance, the Company consolidated certain former QSPEs that were previously accounted for as fixed maturity CMBS and equity security collateralized debt obligations.
The Company also elected FVO for all of the consolidated assets and liabilities of these entities. Upon consolidation, the Company recorded $278 million of securities classified as trading and other securities, $6.8 billion of commercial
mortgage loans and $6.8 billion of long-term debt based on estimated fair values at January 1, 2010 and de-recognized $179 million in fixed maturity securities and less than $1 million in equity securities. The consolidation also
resulted in a decrease in retained earnings of $12 million, net of income tax, and an increase in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) of $42 million, net of income tax, at January 1, 2010. For the year ended
December 31, 2010, the Company recorded $426 million of net investment income on the consolidated assets, $411 million of interest expense in other expenses on the related long-term debt, and $6 million in net investment gains
(losses) to remeasure the assets and liabilities at their estimated fair values.      In addition, the Company
also deconsolidated certain partnerships for which the Company does not have the power to direct activities and for which the Company has concluded it is no longer the primary beneficiary. These deconsolidations did not result in a cumulative effect
adjustment to retained earnings and did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.      Also effective January 1, 2010, the Company adopted guidance that indefinitely defers the above changes relating to the Company s interests in entities that have all the attributes of an
investment company or for which it is industry practice to apply measurement principles for financial reporting that are consistent with those applied by an investment company. As a result of the deferral, the above guidance did not apply to certain
real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests held by the Company.      Effective
April 1, 2009, the Company adopted OTTI guidance. This guidance amends the previously used methodology for determining whether an OTTI exists for fixed maturity securities, changes the presentation of OTTI for fixed maturity securities and
requires additional disclosures for OTTI on fixed maturity and equity securities in interim and annual financial statements. The Company s net cumulative effect adjustment of adopting the OTTI guidance was an increase of $76 million to
retained earnings with a corresponding increase to accumulated other comprehensive loss to reclassify the noncredit loss portion of previously recognized OTTI losses on fixed maturity securities held at April 1, 2009. This cumulative effect
adjustment was comprised of an increase in the amortized cost basis of fixed maturity securities of $126 million, net of policyholder related amounts of $10 million and net of deferred income taxes of $40 million, resulting in the net
cumulative effect adjustment of $76 million. The increase in the amortized cost basis of fixed maturity securities of $126 million by sector was as follows: $53 million   ABS, $43 million   RMBS, $17 million  
U.S. corporate securities and $13 million   CMBS. As a result of the adoption of the OTTI guidance, the Company s pre-tax earnings for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased by $857 million, offset by an increase in
other comprehensive loss representing OTTI relating to noncredit losses recognized during the year ended December 31, 2009.      Effective January 1, 2009, the Company adopted guidance on disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging. This guidance requires enhanced qualitative disclosures about objectives and
strategies for using   
         241

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
derivatives, quantitative disclosures about fair value amounts of and gains and losses on derivative instruments and disclosures about credit risk-related contingent features in derivative
agreements. The Company has provided all of the material disclosures in its consolidated financial statements.   
  Effective January 1, 2009, the Company adopted prospectively an update on accounting for transfers of financial
assets and repurchase financing transactions. This update provides guidance for evaluating whether to account for a transfer of a financial asset and repurchase financing as a single transaction or as two separate transactions. The adoption did not
have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.       Business Combinations and Noncontrolling
Interests       Effective January 1, 2011, the Company adopted new guidance that addresses when a business
combination should be assumed to have occurred for the purpose of providing pro forma disclosure. Under the new guidance, if an entity presents comparative financial statements, the entity should disclose revenue and earnings of the combined entity
as though the business combination that occurred during the current year had occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period. The guidance also expands the supplemental pro forma disclosures to include additional
narratives. The adoption did not have an impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.   
  Effective January 1, 2009, the Company adopted revised guidance on business combinations and accounting for
noncontrolling interests in the consolidated financial statements. Under this guidance:       

All business combinations (whether full, partial or  step  acquisitions) result in all assets and liabilities of an acquired business
being recorded at fair value, with limited exceptions.          

Acquisition costs are generally expensed as incurred; restructuring costs associated with a business combination are generally expensed as incurred
subsequent to the acquisition date.          

The fair value of the purchase price, including the issuance of equity securities, is determined on the acquisition date.

Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination that arise from contingencies are recognized at fair value if the acquisition-date
fair value can be reasonably determined. If the fair value is not estimable, an asset or liability is recorded if existence or incurrence at the acquisition date is probable and its amount is reasonably estimable.      

Changes in deferred income tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date generally affect income tax
expense.          

Noncontrolling interests (formerly known as  minority interests ) are valued at fair value at the acquisition date and are presented as
equity rather than liabilities.          

Net income (loss) includes amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests.      

When control is attained on previously noncontrolling interests, the previously held equity interests are remeasured at fair value and a gain or
loss is recognized.          

Purchases or sales of equity interests that do not result in a change in control are accounted for as equity transactions.

When control is lost in a partial disposition, realized gains or losses are recorded on equity ownership sold and the remaining ownership interest
is remeasured and holding gains or losses are recognized.      
         242

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The adoption of this guidance on a prospective basis did not have an
impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.      Effective January 1, 2009, the Company
adopted prospectively guidance on determination of the useful life of intangible assets. This guidance amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized
intangible asset. This change is intended to improve the consistency between the useful life of a recognized intangible asset and the period of expected future cash flows used to measure the fair value of the asset. The Company determines useful
lives and provides all of the material disclosures prospectively on intangible assets acquired on or after January 1, 2009 in accordance with this guidance.       Fair Value       Effective January 1, 2010, the Company
adopted guidance that requires disclosures about significant transfers into and/or out of Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy and activity in Level 3. In addition, this guidance provides clarification of existing disclosure
requirements about level of disaggregation and inputs and valuation techniques. The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.   
  The following pronouncements relating to fair value had no material impact on the Company s consolidated financial
statements:       

Effective January 1, 2009, the Company implemented fair value measurements guidance for certain nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are
recorded at fair value on a non-recurring basis. This guidance applies to such items as: (i) nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities initially measured at estimated fair value in a business combination; (ii) reporting units
measured at estimated fair value in the first step of a goodwill impairment test; and (iii) indefinite-lived intangible assets measured at estimated fair value for impairment assessment.      

Effective January 1, 2009, the Company adopted prospectively guidance on issuer s accounting for liabilities measured at fair value with a
third-party credit enhancement. This guidance states that an issuer of a liability with a third-party credit enhancement should not include the effect of the credit enhancement in the fair value measurement of the liability. In addition, it requires
disclosures about the existence of any third-party credit enhancement related to liabilities that are measured at fair value.          

Effective April 1, 2009, the Company adopted guidance on: (i) estimating the fair value of an asset or liability if there was a
significant decrease in the volume and level of trading activity for these assets or liabilities; and (ii) identifying transactions that are not orderly. The Company has provided all of the material disclosures in its consolidated financial
statements.          

Effective December 31, 2009, the Company adopted guidance on: (i) measuring the fair value of investments in certain entities that
calculate NAV per share; (ii) how investments within its scope would be classified in the fair value hierarchy; and (iii) enhanced disclosure requirements, for both interim and annual periods, about the nature and risks of investments
measured at fair value on a recurring or non-recurring basis.          

Effective December 31, 2009, the Company adopted guidance on measuring liabilities at fair value. This guidance provides clarification for
measuring fair value in circumstances in which a quoted price in an active market for the identical liability is not available. In such circumstances a company is required to measure fair value using either a valuation technique that uses:
(i) the quoted price of the identical liability when traded as an asset; or (ii) quoted prices for similar liabilities or similar liabilities when      
         243

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

traded as assets; or (iii) another valuation technique that is consistent with the principles of fair value measurement such as an income approach (e.g., present value technique) or a market
approach (e.g.,  entry  value technique).          Defined Benefit and Other Postretirement Plans
      Effective December 31, 2011, the Company adopted guidance regarding enhanced disclosures for
employers  participation in multiemployer pension plans. The revised disclosures require additional qualitative and quantitative information about the employer s involvement in significant multiemployer pension and other postretirement
plans. The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.      Effective December 31, 2009, the Company adopted guidance to enhance the transparency surrounding the types of assets and associated risks in an employer s defined benefit pension or other
postretirement benefit plans. This guidance requires an employer to disclose information about the valuation of plan assets similar to that required under other fair value disclosure guidance. The Company provided all of the material disclosures in
its consolidated financial statements.       Other Pronouncements    
  Effective January 1, 2011, the Company adopted new guidance regarding goodwill impairment testing. This guidance
modifies Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. For those reporting units, an entity would be required to perform Step 2 of the test if qualitative factors indicate that it is more likely
than not that goodwill impairment exists. The adoption did not have an impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.      Effective April 1, 2009, the Company adopted prospectively guidance which establishes general standards for accounting and disclosures of events that occur subsequent to the balance sheet date but
before financial statements are issued or available to be issued. The Company has provided all of the material disclosures in its consolidated financial statements.   
  Effective January 1, 2009, the Company adopted guidance on determining whether an instrument (or embedded feature)
is indexed to an entity s own stock. This guidance provides a framework for evaluating the terms of a particular instrument and whether such terms qualify the instrument as being indexed to an entity s own stock. The adoption did not have
a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.        Future Adoption of New Accounting
Pronouncements        In December 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued
new guidance regarding comprehensive income (Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) 2011-12,  Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05).  The amendments in ASU 2011-12 are effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2011. Consistent with
the effective date of the amendments in ASU 2011-05 discussed below, ASU 2011-12 defers the effective date pertaining to reclassification adjustments out of accumulated other comprehensive income in ASU 2011-05. The amendments are being made to
allow the FASB time to re-deliberate whether to present on the face of the financial statements the effects of reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income on the components of net income and other comprehensive income for all
periods presented. All other requirements in ASU 2011-05 are not affected by ASU 2011-12, including the requirement to report comprehensive income either in a single continuous financial statement or in two separate but
  
         244

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
consecutive financial statements. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements.   
  In December 2011, the FASB issued new guidance regarding balance sheet offsetting disclosures (ASU 2011-11,  Balance
Sheet (Topic 210): Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities),  effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, and interim periods within those annual periods. The guidance should be applied
retrospectively for all comparative periods presented. The amendments in ASU 2011-11 require an entity to disclose information about offsetting and related arrangements to enable users of its financial statements to understand the effects of those
arrangements on its financial position. Entities are required to disclose both gross information and net information about both instruments and transactions eligible for offset in the statement of financial position and instruments and transactions
subject to an agreement similar to a master netting arrangement. The objective of ASU 2011-11 is to facilitate comparison between those entities that prepare their financial statements on the basis of GAAP and those entities that prepare their
financial statements on the basis of International Financial Reporting Standards ( IFRS ). The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.   
  In December 2011, the FASB issued new guidance regarding derecognition of in substance real estate (ASU 2011-10
 Property, Plant and Equipment (Topic 360): Derecognition of in Substance Real Estate - a Scope Clarification (a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force),  effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years,
beginning on or after June 15, 2012. The amendments should be applied prospectively to deconsolidation events occurring after the effective date. Under the amendments in ASU 2011-10, when a parent ceases to have a controlling financial interest
in a subsidiary that is in substance real estate as a result of a default on the subsidiary s nonrecourse debt, the reporting entity should apply the guidance in Subtopic 360-20 to determine whether it should derecognize the in substance real
estate. Generally, a reporting entity would not satisfy the requirements to derecognize in substance real estate before the legal transfer of the real estate to the lender and the extinguishment of the related nonrecourse indebtedness. The Company
is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements.      In September
2011, the FASB issued new guidance on goodwill impairment testing (ASU 2011-08,  Intangibles     Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment),  effective for calendar years beginning after December 15, 2011.
Early adoption is permitted. The objective of this standard is to simplify how an entity tests goodwill for impairment. The amendments in this standard will allow an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely
than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value as a basis for determining whether it needs to perform the quantitative two-step goodwill impairment test. Only if an entity determines, based on qualitative
assessment, that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit s fair value is less than its carrying value will it be required to calculate the fair value of the reporting unit. The Company does not expect the adoption of this new guidance
to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.      In July 2011, the FASB issued new
guidance on other expenses (ASU 2011-06,  Other Expenses (Topic 720): Fees Paid to the Federal Government by Health Insurers),  effective for calendar years beginning after December 31, 2013. The objective of this standard is to address
how health insurers should recognize and classify in their income statements fees mandated by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act. The amendments in this standard specify
that the liability for the fee should be estimated and recorded in full once the entity provides qualifying health insurance in the applicable calendar year in which the fee is payable with a corresponding deferred cost that is amortized to expense
using the straight-line method of allocation unless another method better allocates the fee over the calendar year that it is payable. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements.
  
         245

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   In June 2011, the FASB issued new guidance regarding comprehensive
income (ASU 2011-05,  Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income),  effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. The guidance should be applied
retrospectively and early adoption is permitted. The new guidance provides companies with the option to present the total of comprehensive income, components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single
continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. The objective of the standard is to increase the prominence of items reported in other comprehensive income and to facilitate convergence of GAAP and IFRS.
The standard eliminates the option to present components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders  equity. The amendments in ASU 2011-05 do not change the items that must be reported in other
comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified in net income. The Company intends to adopt the two-statement approach in the first quarter of 2012.   
  In May 2011, the FASB issued new guidance regarding fair value measurements (ASU 2011-04,  Fair Value Measurement
(Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs),  effective for the first interim or annual period beginning after December 15, 2011. The guidance should be applied
prospectively. The amendments in this ASU are intended to establish common requirements for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements in accordance with GAAP and IFRS. Some of the amendments clarify the
FASB s intent on the application of existing fair value measurement requirements. Other amendments change a particular principle or requirement for measuring fair value or for disclosing information about fair value measurements. The Company
does not expect the adoption of this new guidance to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.      In April 2011, the FASB issued new guidance regarding effective control in repurchase agreements (ASU 2011-03,  Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860): Reconsideration of Effective Control for
Repurchase Agreements),  effective for the first interim or annual period beginning on or after December 15, 2011. The guidance should be applied prospectively to transactions or modifications of existing transactions that occur on or after
the effective date. The amendments in this ASU remove from the assessment of effective control the criterion requiring the transferor to have the ability to repurchase or redeem the financial assets. The Company does not expect the adoption of this
new guidance to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.      In October 2010, the FASB
issued new guidance regarding accounting for deferred acquisition costs (ASU 2010-26,  Financial Services  Insurance (Topic 944): Accounting for Costs Associated with Acquiring or Renewing Insurance Contracts)  ( ASU 2010-26 ),
effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2011. ASU 2010-26 specifies that only costs related directly to successful acquisition of new or renewal contracts can be capitalized as
DAC; all other acquisition-related costs must be expensed as incurred. Under the new guidance, advertising costs may only be included in DAC if the capitalization criteria in the direct-response advertising guidance in Subtopic 340-20,  Other
Assets and Deferred Costs Capitalized Advertising Costs,  are met. As a result, certain direct marketing, sales manager compensation and administrative costs currently capitalized by the Company will no longer be deferred. The Company will
adopt ASU 2010-26 in the first quarter of 2012 and will apply it retrospectively to all prior periods presented in its consolidated financial statements for all insurance contracts. The Company estimates that DAC will be reduced by approximately
$3.1 billion to $3.6 billion and total equity will be reduced by approximately $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion, net of income tax, as of the date of adoption.   
         246

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

    2. Acquisitions and Dispositions    
     Pending Dispositions     
  In December 2011, MetLife Bank National Association ( MetLife Bank ) and MetLife, Inc. entered into a
definitive agreement to sell most of the depository business of MetLife Bank. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2012, subject to certain regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. Additionally, in
January 2012, MetLife, Inc. announced it is exiting the business of originating forward residential mortgages. In conjunction with these events, for the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company recorded charges totaling $212 million, net
of income tax, which included intent-to-sell OTTI investment charges, charges related to the de-designation of certain cash flow hedges, a goodwill impairment charge and other employee-related charges. In addition, the Company expects to incur
additional charges of $90 million to $110 million, net of income tax, during 2012, related to exiting the forward residential mortgage origination business. The total assets and liabilities recorded in the consolidated balance sheet related to
these two businesses as of December 31, 2011 were approximately $11.0 billion and $10.0 billion, respectively. These transactions did not qualify for discontinued operations accounting treatment under GAAP. See Notes 3 and 7.   
  In November 2011, the Company entered into an agreement to sell its insurance operations in the Caribbean region, Panama
and Costa Rica (the  Caribbean Business ). The total assets and liabilities recorded in the consolidated balance sheet related to these insurance operations as of December 31, 2011 were $859 million and $707 million, respectively.
Related to the pending sale, the Company recorded a loss of $21 million, net of income tax, which included intent-to-sell OTTI investment charges, during the year ended December 31, 2011. The sale is expected to close in the second quarter of
2012 subject to regulatory approval and other customary closing conditions. The results of the Caribbean Business are included in continuing operations.        2011 Dispositions        On April 1, 2011, the
Company sold its 50% interest in Mitsui Sumitomo MetLife Insurance Co., Ltd. ( MSI MetLife ), a Japan domiciled life insurance company, to its joint venture partner, MS AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. ( MS AD ), for
$269 million ( 22.5 billion) in cash consideration, less $4 million ( 310 million) to reimburse MS AD for specific expenses incurred related to the transaction. The accumulated other comprehensive losses in
the foreign currency translation adjustment component of equity resulting from the hedges of the Company s investment in the joint venture of $46 million, net of income tax, were released upon sale but did not impact net income for year ended
December 31, 2011 as such losses were considered in the overall impairment evaluation of the investment prior to the sale. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company recorded a loss of $57 million and
$136 million, net of income tax, respectively, in net investment gains (losses) within the consolidated statements of operations related to the sale. The Company s operating earnings relating to its investment in MSI MetLife were included
in the Other International Regions segment.      On November 1, 2011, the Company sold its wholly-owned
subsidiary, MetLife Taiwan Insurance Company Limited ( MetLife Taiwan ) for $180 million in cash consideration. The net assets sold were $282 million, resulting in a loss on disposal of $64 million, net of income tax,
recorded in discontinued operations, for the year ended December 31, 2011. Income (loss) from the operations of MetLife Taiwan of $20 million, $22 million and $9 million, net of income tax, for the years ended December 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, was also recorded in discontinued operations. See Note 23.   
         247

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     2010 Acquisition of ALICO     
   Description of Transaction       On the Acquisition Date, MetLife, Inc. acquired all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of American Life from AM Holdings, a subsidiary of AIG, and DelAm from AIG for a total purchase price of
$16.4 billion, which consisted of (i) cash of $7.2 billion (includes settlement of intercompany balances and certain other adjustments), and (ii) securities of MetLife, Inc. valued at $9.2 billion.   
  The $7.2 billion cash portion of the purchase price was funded through the issuance of common stock as described in
Note 18, fixed and floating rate senior debt as described in Note 11 as well as cash on hand. The securities issued to AM Holdings included (a) 78,239,712 shares of MetLife, Inc. s common stock;
(b) 6,857,000 shares of Series B Contingent Convertible Junior Participating Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (the  convertible preferred stock ) of MetLife, Inc.; and (c) 40 million common equity units of
MetLife, Inc. (the  Equity Units ) with an aggregate stated amount at issuance of $3.0 billion, initially consisting of (i) three purchase contracts (the  Series C Purchase Contracts,  the  Series D
Purchase Contracts  and the  Series E Purchase Contracts  and, together, the  Purchase Contracts ), obligating the holder to purchase, on specified future settlement dates, a variable number of shares of MetLife,
Inc. s common stock for a fixed price; and (ii) an interest in each of three series of debt securities (the  Series C Debt Securities,  the  Series D Debt Securities  and the  Series E Debt
Securities,  and, together, the  Debt Securities ) issued by MetLife, Inc. Distributions on the Equity Units will be made quarterly, through contract payments on the Purchase Contracts and interest payments on the Debt Securities,
initially at an aggregate annual rate of 5.00% (an average annual rate of 3.02% on the Purchase Contracts and an average annual rate of 1.98% on the Debt Securities) as described in Note 14.   
  On March 8, 2011, AM Holdings sold, in public offering transactions, all the shares of common stock and Equity Units
it received as consideration from MetLife in connection with the Acquisition. The Company did not receive any of the proceeds from the sale of either the shares of common stock or the Equity Units owned by AM Holdings. On March 8, 2011,
MetLife, Inc. issued 68,570,000 shares of common stock for gross proceeds of $3.0 billion, which were used to repurchase and cancel 6,857,000 shares of convertible preferred stock received as consideration by AM Holdings from MetLife
in connection with the Acquisition. See Note 18.      ALICO is an international life insurance company,
providing consumers and businesses with products and services for life insurance, accident and health insurance, retirement and wealth management solutions. The Acquisition significantly broadened the Company s diversification by product,
distribution and geography, meaningfully accelerated MetLife s global growth strategy, and provides the opportunity to build an international franchise leveraging the key strengths of ALICO.   
         248

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Fair Value and Allocation of Purchase Price    
  The computation of total purchase consideration and the amounts recognized for each major class of assets acquired and
liabilities assumed, based upon their respective fair values at the Acquisition Date, and the resulting goodwill, are presented below:       

(1)  
    Fair value is based on the opening price of MetLife, Inc. s common stock of $40.90 on the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) on
November 1, 2010.          

(2)  
    On March 8, 2011, MetLife, Inc. repurchased and canceled all of the convertible preferred stock.      

(3)  
    The Equity Units include the Debt Securities and the Purchase Contracts that will settle in MetLife, Inc. s common stock on specified future
dates. See Note 14.          

(4)  
    Relates to the cash settlement of intercompany balances prior to the Acquisition for amounts in excess of certain agreed-upon thresholds and certain
other adjustments.          

(5)  
    Effective settlement of debt securities issued by MetLife, Inc. that were owned by ALICO on the Acquisition Date and which reduced the total
purchase consideration. Such debt securities were sold to a third party in the second quarter of 2011.          

(6)  
    Estimated fair value of potential payments related to the adequacy of reserves for guarantees on the fair value of a fund of assets backing certain
United Kingdom ( U.K. ) unit-linked contracts.      
   At the Acquisition Date, management expected the aggregate amount of MetLife, Inc. s common stock
to be issued to AM Holdings to be between 214.6 million to 231.5 million shares, consisting of 78.2 million shares issued at closing, 68.6 million shares to be issued upon conversion of the convertible preferred stock and between
67.8 million and 84.7 million shares of common stock, in total, issuable upon settlement of the Purchase Contracts forming part of the Equity Units. On March 8, 2011, MetLife, Inc. issued 68.6 million shares of common stock and
used the gross proceeds to repurchase and cancel the convertible preferred stock. On the same date, AM Holdings sold, in a public offering, all the Equity Units it received as consideration from MetLife in connection with the Acquisition. See
Notes 14 and 18.   
         249

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Recording of Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed    
  The following table summarizes the amounts recognized at fair value for each major class of assets acquired and
liabilities assumed and the resulting goodwill as of the Acquisition Date, inclusive of adjustments made in the first year after the Acquisition Date to the amounts initially recorded ( measurement period adjustments ).   

The measurement period adjustments, which related to the finalization of American Life s current
and deferred income tax liability, did not have an impact on the Company s earnings or cash flows and, therefore, the financial statements were not retrospectively adjusted. See Note 15.   
   Goodwill       Goodwill is calculated as the excess of the consideration transferred over the net assets recognized and represents the future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired and liabilities assumed
that could not be individually identified. The goodwill recorded as part of the Acquisition includes the expected synergies and other benefits that management believes will result from combining the operations of ALICO with the operations of
MetLife, including further diversification in geographic mix and product offerings and an increase in distribution strength.      As of the Acquisition Date, of the $7.0 billion of goodwill, approximately $4.0 billion was estimated to be deductible for tax purposes. Of the $4.0 billion, approximately $573 million
was estimated to be deductible for U.S. tax purposes prior to the completion of the anticipated restructuring of American Life s foreign branches. See   Branch Restructuring.    
         250

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Identified Intangibles    
  VOBA reflects the estimated fair value of in-force contracts acquired and represents the portion of the purchase price
that is allocated to the value of future profits embedded in acquired insurance annuity and investment-type contracts in-force at the Acquisition Date.      The value of VODA and VOCRA, included in other assets, reflects the estimated fair value of ALICO s distribution agreements and customer relationships acquired at November 1, 2010 and will be
amortized over the useful lives. Each year the Company reviews VODA and VOCRA to determine the recoverability of these balances.      The use of discount rates was necessary to establish the fair value of VOBA and the identifiable intangibles. In selecting the appropriate discount rates, management considered its weighted average cost
of capital, as well as the weighted average cost of capital required by market participants. The fair value of acquired liabilities was determined using risk free rates adjusted for a nonperformance risk premium. The nonperformance adjustment was
determined by taking into consideration publicly available information relating to spreads in the secondary market for MetLife Inc. s debt, including related credit default swaps. These observable spreads were then adjusted to reflect the
priority of these liabilities, the claims paying ability of the insurance subsidiaries compared to MetLife, Inc. and, as necessary, the relative credit spreads of the liabilities  currencies of denomination as compared to USD spreads.
     The fair values of business acquired, distribution agreements and customer relationships and the weighted
average amortization periods were as follows as of November 1, 2010:           

Negative VOBA       For certain acquired blocks of business, the estimated fair value of acquired liabilities exceeded the initial policy reserves assumed at the Acquisition Date, resulting in negative VOBA of
$4.4 billion recorded at the Acquisition Date. Negative VOBA is recorded in other policy-related balances. See Note 8. The following summarizes the major blocks of business, all included within the Japan segment, for which negative VOBA was
recorded and describes why the fair value of the liabilities associated with these blocks of business exceeded the initial policy reserves assumed:       

Fixed Annuities    This block of business provides a fixed rate of return to the policyholders. A decrease in market interest rates since
the time of issuance was the primary driver that resulted in the fair value of the liabilities associated with this block being significantly greater than the initial policy reserves assumed at the Acquisition Date.      

Interest Sensitive Whole Life and Retirement Savings Products    These contracts contain guaranteed minimum benefit features. The
recorded reserves for these guarantees increase ratably over the life of the policies in relation to future gross revenues. In contrast, the fair value of the guaranteed minimum benefit component of the initial policy reserves assumed represents the
amount that would be required to      
         251

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

be transferred to a market participant to assume the full liability at the acquisition date, implicitly incorporating market participant views as to all expected future cash flows. This results
in a fair value significantly in excess of the initial guaranteed minimum benefit liability assumed at the Acquisition Date.          Trademark Assets       In connection with the Acquisition, the
Company recognized $47 million in trademark assets recorded in other assets. The fair value of the trademark assets will be recognized ratably over their expected useful lives which is generally between five to 10 years.   
   Indemnification Assets and Contingent Consideration    
  The stock purchase agreement dated as of March 7, 2010, as amended by and among MetLife, Inc., AIG and AM Holdings
(formerly known as ALICO Holdings LLC) (the  Stock Purchase Agreement ) and related agreements include indemnification provisions that allocate the risk of losses arising out of contingencies or other uncertainties that existed as of the
Acquisition Date in accordance with the terms, and subject to the limitations and procedures, provided by such provisions. As applicable, the Company recognizes an indemnification asset at the same time that it recognizes the indemnified item,
measured on the same basis as the indemnified item. The Company recognized the following indemnification assets and contingencies as of the Acquisition Date in accordance with the indemnification provisions of the Stock Purchase Agreement and
related agreements:       Investments    The Company established indemnification assets
for the fair value of amounts expected to be recovered from defaults of certain fixed maturity securities, CMBS and mortgage loans. These indemnification assets were included in other invested assets at December 31, 2011 and 2010.   
   Litigation    The Company established indemnification assets associated with certain
settlements expected to be made in connection with the suspension of withdrawals from certain unit-linked funds offered to certain policyholders. These indemnification assets were included in other assets at December 31, 2011 and 2010.
      Section 338 Election    See Note 1.   
  The Company recognized an aggregate amount of $574 million for indemnification assets as of the Acquisition Date in
accordance with the indemnification provisions of the Stock Purchase Agreement and related agreements.   
   Contingent Consideration   The Company has guaranteed that the fair value of a fund of assets backing certain
U.K. unit-linked contracts will have a value of at least  1 per unit on July 1, 2012. If the shortfall between the aggregate guaranteed amount and the fair value of the fund exceeds  106 million (as adjusted for
withdrawals), AIG will pay the difference to the Company and, conversely, if the shortfall at July 1, 2012 is less than  106 million, the Company will pay the difference to AIG. The Company believes that the fair value of the fund
will equal or exceed the aggregate guaranteed amount by July 1, 2012. The contingent consideration liability was $109 million at December 31, 2011 and $88 million at the Acquisition Date. The increase in the contingent
consideration liability amount from the Acquisition Date to December 31, 2011 was recorded in net derivative gains (losses) in the consolidated statement of operations.   
         252

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Branch Restructuring    
  On March 4, 2010, American Life entered into a closing agreement (the  Closing Agreement ) with the
Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) with respect to a U.S. withholding tax issue arising as a result of payments made by its foreign branches. The Closing Agreement provides that American Life s foreign branches
will not be required to withhold U.S. income tax on the income portion of payments made pursuant to American Life s life insurance and annuity contracts ( Covered Payments ) for any tax periods beginning on January 1, 2005
and ending on December 31, 2013 (the  Deferral Period ). The Closing Agreement required that American Life submit a plan to the IRS within 90 days after the close of the Acquisition, indicating the steps American Life would take
(on a country by country basis) to ensure that no substantial amount of U.S. withholding tax will arise from Covered Payments made by American Life s foreign branches to foreign customers after the Deferral Period. Such plan, which was
submitted to the IRS on January 29, 2011, involves the transfer of businesses from certain of the foreign branches of American Life to one or more existing or newly-formed subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. or American Life.   
  A liability of $277 million was recognized in purchase accounting as of the Acquisition Date for the anticipated and
estimated costs associated with restructuring American Life s foreign branches into subsidiaries in connection with the Closing Agreement.      See Notes 7, 15 and 19 for additional information related to the Acquisition.   
   Revenues and Earnings of ALICO       The following table presents information for ALICO that is included in the Company s consolidated statement of operations from the Acquisition Date through November 30, 2010:   

ALICO s Operations Included in MetLife s     Results for the     Year Ended December 31, 2010   

(In millions)   

Total revenues   
      
  $  
  950  

Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax   
      
  $  
  (2  
  )    
 
    Supplemental Pro Forma Information (unaudited)    
  The following table presents unaudited supplemental pro forma information as if the Acquisition had occurred on
January 1, 2010 for the year ended December 31, 2010 and on January 1, 2009 for the year ended December 31, 2009.       

253

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The pro forma information was derived from the historical financial
information of MetLife and ALICO, reflecting the results of operations of MetLife and ALICO for 2010 and 2009. The historical financial information has been adjusted to give effect to the pro forma events that are directly attributable to the
Acquisition and factually supportable and expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results. Discontinued operations and the related earnings per share have been excluded from the presentation as they are non-recurring in nature. The pro
forma information is not intended to reflect the results of operations of the combined company that would have resulted had the Acquisition been effective during the periods presented or the results that may be obtained by the combined company in
the future. The pro forma information does not reflect future events that may occur after the Acquisition, including, but not limited to, expense efficiencies or revenue enhancements arising from the Acquisition and also does not give effect to
certain one-time charges that MetLife expects to incur, such as restructuring and integration costs.      The pro
forma information primarily reflects the following pro forma adjustments:       

reduction in net investment income to reflect the amortization or accretion associated with the new cost basis of the acquired fixed maturities
available-for-sale portfolio;          

elimination of amortization associated with the elimination of ALICO s historical DAC;      

amortization of VOBA, VODA and VOCRA associated with the establishment of VOBA, VODA and VOCRA arising from the Acquisition;

reduction in other expenses associated with the amortization of negative VOBA;      

reduction in revenues associated with the elimination of ALICO s historical unearned revenue liability;      

interest expense associated with the issuance of the Debt Securities to AM Holdings and the public issuance of senior notes in connection with the
financing of the Acquisition;          

certain adjustments to conform to MetLife s accounting policies; and      

reversal of investment and derivative gains (losses) associated with certain transactions that were completed prior to the Acquisition Date
(conditions of closing).           2009 Disposition     
  In March 2009, the Company sold Cova Corporation ( Cova ), the parent company of Texas Life Insurance Company
( Texas Life ) to a third-party for $130 million in cash consideration, excluding $1 million of transaction costs. The net assets sold were $101 million, resulting in a gain on disposal of $28 million, net of income
tax. The Company also reclassified $4 million, net of income tax, of the 2009 operations of Texas Life into discontinued operations in the consolidated financial statements. As a result, the Company recognized income from discontinued
operations of $32 million, net of income tax, during the year ended December 31, 2009. See Note 23.        2009
Disposition through Assumption Reinsurance        On October 30, 2009, the Company completed the
disposal, through assumption reinsurance, of substantially all of the insurance business of MetLife Canada, a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary, to a third-party. Pursuant to the assumption reinsurance agreement, the consideration paid by the Company
was $259 million, comprised of cash of $14 million and fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans and other assets totaling $245 million. At the   
         254

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
date of the assumption reinsurance agreement, the carrying value of insurance liabilities transferred was $267 million, resulting in a gain of $5 million, net of income tax. The gain
was recognized in net investment gains (losses).   
    3. Investments    
     Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available-for-Sale     
  The following tables present the cost or amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses, estimated fair value of fixed
maturity and equity securities and the percentage that each sector represents by the respective total holdings for the periods shown. The unrealized loss amounts presented below include the noncredit loss component of OTTI losses:   

255

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

Within
fixed maturity securities, a reclassification from the ABS sector to the RMBS sector has been made to the prior year amounts to conform to the current year presentation for securities backed by sub-prime residential mortgage loans to be consistent
with market convention relating to the risks inherent in such securities and the Company s management of its investments within these asset sectors.      The Company held non-income producing fixed maturity securities with an estimated fair value of $62 million and $130 million with unrealized gains (losses) of ($19) million and ($23) million at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.      The Company held foreign currency derivatives with notional
amounts of $15.3 billion and $12.2 billion to hedge the exchange rate risk associated with foreign denominated fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
   Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity Securities)   Summary.  The following section contains
a summary of the concentrations of credit risk related to fixed maturity securities holdings.      The Company was
not exposed to any concentrations of credit risk of any single issuer greater than 10% of the Company s equity, other than the government securities summarized in the table below. The par value, amortized cost and estimated fair value of
holdings in sovereign fixed maturity securities of Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain, commonly referred to as  Europe s perimeter region,  was $874 million, $254 million and $264 million at December 31, 2011,
respectively, and $1.9 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.6 billion at December 31, 2010, respectively. The estimated fair value of these Europe perimeter region sovereign fixed maturity securities represented 0.4% and 3.2% of the Company s
equity at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and 0.1% and 0.3% of total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
         256

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Concentrations of Credit Risk (Government and Agency
Securities).  The following section contains a summary of the concentrations of credit risk related to government and agency fixed maturity and fixed-income securities holdings, which were greater than 10% of the Company s equity at:

(1)  
    Represents estimated fair value for fixed maturity securities, and for short-term investments and cash equivalents, estimated fair value or
amortized cost, which approximates estimated fair value.          

(2)  
    The Company s investment in Mexico government and agency fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2011 of $5.0 billion is less than 10%
of the Company s equity.      
    Concentrations of Credit Risk (Equity Securities).  The Company was not exposed to any
concentrations of credit risk in its equity securities holdings of any single issuer greater than 10% of the Company s equity or 1% of total investments at December 31, 2011 and 2010.   
   Maturities of Fixed Maturity Securities.  The amortized cost and estimated fair value of fixed maturity
securities, by contractual maturity date (excluding scheduled sinking funds), were as follows at:           

Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities due to the exercise of call or prepayment
options. Fixed maturity securities not due at a single maturity date have been included in the above table in the year of final contractual maturity. RMBS, CMBS and ABS are shown separately in the table, as they are not due at a single maturity.
     As discussed further in Note 2, an indemnification asset has been established in connection with certain
investments acquired from American Life.   
         257

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Evaluating Available-for-Sale Securities for Other-Than-Temporary Impairment
       As described more fully in Note 1, the Company performs a regular evaluation, on a
security-by-security basis, of its available-for-sale securities holdings, including fixed maturity securities, equity securities and perpetual hybrid securities, in accordance with its impairment policy in order to evaluate whether such investments
are other-than-temporarily impaired.        Net Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses)     
  The components of net unrealized investment gains (losses), included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),
were as follows:           

258

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The changes in fixed maturity securities with noncredit OTTI losses
included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows:           

(2)  
    Amounts transferred to retained earnings were in connection with the adoption of guidance related to the consolidation of VIEs as described in Note
1.      

         259

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The changes in net unrealized investment gains (losses) were as follows:

260

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Continuous Gross Unrealized Losses and OTTI Losses for Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities
Available-for-Sale by Sector        The following tables present the estimated fair value and gross
unrealized losses of fixed maturity and equity securities in an unrealized loss position, aggregated by sector and by length of time that the securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position. The unrealized loss amounts presented below
include the noncredit component of OTTI loss. Fixed maturity securities on which a noncredit OTTI loss has been recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are categorized by length of time as being  less than
12 months  or  equal to or greater than 12 months  in a continuous unrealized loss position based on the point in time that the estimated fair value initially declined to below the amortized cost basis and not the period of
time since the unrealized loss was deemed a noncredit OTTI loss.           

261

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)    

262

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Aging of Gross Unrealized Losses and OTTI Losses for Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities
Available-for-Sale        The following tables present the cost or amortized cost, gross unrealized losses,
including the portion of OTTI loss on fixed maturity securities recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), gross unrealized losses as a percentage of cost or amortized cost and number of securities for fixed maturity and equity
securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%, or 20% or more at:       

263

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

Equity securities with gross unrealized losses of 20% or more for twelve months or greater decreased
from $116 million at December 31, 2010 to $96 million at December 31, 2011. As shown in the section    Evaluating Temporarily Impaired Available-for-Sale Securities  below, all of the equity securities with
gross unrealized losses of 20% or more for twelve months or greater at December 31, 2011 were financial services industry investment grade non-redeemable preferred stock, of which 71% were rated A or better.   
         264

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Concentration of Gross Unrealized Losses and OTTI Losses for Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities
Available-for-Sale        The gross unrealized losses related to fixed maturity and equity securities,
including the portion of OTTI losses on fixed maturity securities recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) were $5.8 billion and $6.8 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The concentration,
calculated as a percentage of gross unrealized losses (including OTTI losses), by sector and industry was as follows at:       

Evaluating Temporarily Impaired Available-for-Sale Securities     
  The following table presents fixed maturity and equity securities, each with gross unrealized losses of greater than
$10 million, the number of securities, total gross unrealized losses and percentage of total gross unrealized losses at:       

265

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Fixed maturity and equity securities, each with gross unrealized losses
greater than $10 million, decreased $297 million during the year ended December 31, 2011. The decline in, or improvement in, gross unrealized losses for the year ended December 31, 2011, was primarily attributable to a decrease in
interest rates, partially offset by widening credit spreads. These securities were included in the Company s OTTI review process.      As of December 31, 2011, $1.3 billion of unrealized losses were from fixed maturity securities with an unrealized loss position of 20% or more of amortized cost for six months or greater. Of the
$1.3 billion, $526 million, or 41%, are related to unrealized losses on investment grade securities. Unrealized losses on investment grade securities are principally related to widening credit spreads or rising interest rates since
purchase. Of the $1.3 billion, $759 million, or 59%, are related to unrealized losses on below investment grade securities. Unrealized losses on below investment grade securities are principally related to RMBS (primarily alternative
residential mortgage loans and sub-prime residential mortgage loans), U.S and foreign corporate securities (primarily utility, industrial and financial services industry securities) and ABS (primarily collateralized debt obligations) and were the
result of significantly wider credit spreads resulting from higher risk premiums since purchase, largely due to economic and market uncertainties including concerns over the financial services industry sector, unemployment levels and valuations of
residential real estate supporting non-agency RMBS. As explained further in Note 1, management evaluates these U.S. and foreign corporate securities based on factors such as expected cash flows and the financial condition and near-term and
long-term prospects of the issuer; and evaluates non-agency RMBS and ABS based on actual and projected cash flows after considering the quality of underlying collateral, expected prepayment speeds, current and forecasted loss severity, consideration
of the payment terms of the underlying assets backing a particular security, and the payment priority within the tranche structure of the security. See    Aging of Gross Unrealized Losses and OTTI Losses for Fixed Maturity and Equity
Securities Available-for-Sale  for a discussion of equity securities with an unrealized loss position of 20% or more of cost for 12 months or greater.      In the Company s impairment review process, the duration and severity of an unrealized loss position for equity securities are given greater weight and consideration than for fixed maturity
securities. An extended and severe unrealized loss position on a fixed maturity security may not have any impact on the ability of the issuer to service all scheduled interest and principal payments and the Company s evaluation of
recoverability of all contractual cash flows or the ability to recover an amount at least equal to its amortized cost based on the present value of the expected future cash flows to be collected. In contrast, for an equity security, greater weight
and consideration are given by the Company to a decline in market value and the likelihood such market value decline will recover.   
         266

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The following table presents certain information about the
Company s equity securities available-for-sale with gross unrealized losses of 20% or more at December 31, 2011:       

In connection with the equity securities impairment review process, the Company evaluated its holdings
in non-redeemable preferred stock, particularly those in the financial services industry. The Company considered several factors including whether there has been any deterioration in credit of the issuer and the likelihood of recovery in value of
non-redeemable preferred stock with a severe or an extended unrealized loss. The Company also considered whether any issuers of non-redeemable preferred stock with an unrealized loss held by the Company, regardless of credit rating, have deferred
any dividend payments. No such dividend payments had been deferred.      With respect to common stock holdings,
the Company considered the duration and severity of the unrealized losses for securities in an unrealized loss position of 20% or more; and the duration of unrealized losses for securities in an unrealized loss position of less than 20% in an
extended unrealized loss position (i.e., 12 months or greater).      Based on the Company s current
evaluation of available-for-sale securities in an unrealized loss position in accordance with its impairment policy, and the Company s current intentions and assessments (as applicable to the type of security) about holding, selling and any
requirements to sell these securities, the Company has concluded that these securities are not other-than-temporarily impaired.      Future OTTIs will depend primarily on economic fundamentals, issuer performance (including changes in the present value of future cash flows expected to be collected), changes in credit ratings, changes
in collateral valuation, changes in interest rates and changes in credit spreads. If economic fundamentals or any of the above factors deteriorate, additional OTTIs may be incurred in upcoming quarters.   
         267

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Trading and Other Securities     
  The table below presents certain information about the Company s trading and other securities.   

See Note 1 for discussion of FVO contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and
   Variable Interest Entities  for discussion of CSEs included in the table above. See    Net Investment Income  and    Net Investment Gains (Losses)  for the net investment income
recognized on trading and other securities and the related changes in estimated fair value subsequent to purchase included in net investment income and net investment gains (losses) for securities still held as of the end of the respective years, as
applicable.   
         268

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Net Investment Gains (Losses)     
  The components of net investment gains (losses) were as follows:   

(1)  
    Investment portfolio gains (losses) for the year ended December 31, 2011 includes intent-to-sell impairments of ($154) million as a result of
the pending disposition of certain operations of MetLife Bank and the Caribbean Business. See Note 2.          

(2)  
    Other gains (losses) includes a loss of $87 million and $209 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, related
to the sale of the Company s investment in MSI MetLife. See Note 2. Other gains (losses) for the year ended December 31, 2011 includes a goodwill impairment loss of $65 million and a loss of $19 million related to the Company s
pending sale of the Caribbean Business. See Notes 2 and 7.      
   See    Variable Interest Entities  for discussion of CSEs included in the table above.
     Gains (losses) from foreign currency transactions included within net investment gains
(losses) were $37 million, $230 million and $226 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
         269

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Proceeds from sales or disposals of fixed maturity and equity securities
and the components of fixed maturity and equity securities net investment gains (losses) were as shown in the table below. Investment gains and losses on sales of securities are determined on a specific identification basis.   

(1)  
    Other OTTI losses recognized in earnings include impairments on equity securities, impairments on perpetual hybrid securities classified within
fixed maturity securities where the primary reason for the impairment was the severity and/or the duration of an unrealized loss position and fixed maturity securities where there is an intent to sell or it is more likely than not that the Company
will be required to sell the security before recovery of the decline in estimated fair value.      
   Fixed maturity security OTTI losses recognized in earnings related to the following sectors and
industries within the U.S. and foreign corporate securities sector:           

270

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Equity security OTTI losses recognized in earnings related to the
following sectors and industries:           

Credit Loss Rollforward   Rollforward of the Cumulative Credit Loss Component of OTTI Loss Recognized in
Earnings on Fixed Maturity Securities Still Held for Which a Portion of the OTTI Loss Was Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)        The table below presents a rollforward of the cumulative credit loss component of OTTI loss recognized in earnings on fixed maturity securities still held for which a portion of the OTTI loss was
recognized in other comprehensive income (loss):           

Years Ended December 31,   

2011       

2010       

(In millions)   

Balance, at January 1,   
      
  $  
      443  

$  
      581  

Additions:   

Initial impairments   credit loss OTTI recognized on securities not previously impaired   

45  

109  

Additional impairments   credit loss OTTI recognized on securities previously impaired   

143  

125  

Reductions:   

Sales (maturities, pay downs or prepayments) during the period of securities previously impaired as credit loss
OTTI   

(90  
  )   

(260  
  )    
 
    Securities de-recognized in connection with the adoption of new guidance related to the consolidation of VIEs   

(100  
  )    
 
    Securities impaired to net present value of expected future cash flows   

(57  
  )   

(2  
  )    
 
    Increases in cash flows   accretion of previous credit loss OTTI   

(13  
  )   

(10  
  )    

Balance, at December 31,   
      
  $  
  471  

$  
  443  

271

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Net Investment Income     
  The components of net investment income were as follows:   

(1)  
    Changes in estimated fair value subsequent to purchase for securities still held as of the end of the respective years included in net investment
income were:           

Trading and other securities   Actively Traded Securities and FVO general account securities   

$            (3  
  )   

$            30  

$            34  

Trading and other securities   FVO contractholder-directed unit-linked investments   

$        (647  
  )   

$          322  

$          275  

(2)  
    Amounts are presented net of changes in estimated fair value of derivatives related to economic hedges of the Company s investment in these
equity method international joint venture investments that do not qualify for hedge accounting of ($23) million, $36 million, and ($143) million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.
     
   See    Variable Interest Entities  for discussion of CSEs included in the table
above.   
         272

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Securities Lending     
  As described more fully in Note 1, the Company participates in a securities lending program whereby blocks of securities
are loaned to third parties. These transactions are treated as financing arrangements and the associated cash collateral received is recorded as a liability. The Company is obligated to return the cash collateral received to its counterparties.
     Elements of the securities lending program are presented below at:   

(1)  
    Included within fixed maturity securities and short-term investments.      

(2)  
    Included within payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions.      
   Security collateral on deposit from counterparties in connection with the securities lending
transactions may not be sold or repledged, unless the counterparty is in default, and is not reflected in the consolidated financial statements.        Invested Assets on Deposit, Held in Trust and Pledged as Collateral        Invested assets on deposit, held in trust and pledged as collateral are presented in the table below at estimated fair value for cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, fixed maturity
securities, equity securities, and trading and other securities and at carrying value for mortgage loans.       

(1)  
    The Company has invested assets on deposit with regulatory agencies consisting primarily of cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, fixed
maturity securities and equity securities.          

(2)  
    The Company held in trust cash and securities, primarily fixed maturity and equity securities, to satisfy requirements under certain collateral
financing agreements and certain reinsurance agreements.          

(3)  
    The Company has pledged fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans and cash and cash equivalents in connection with various agreements and
transactions, including funding and advances agreements (see Notes 8 and 11), collateralized borrowings (see Note 11), collateral financing arrangements (see Note 12), derivative transactions (see Note 4), and short sale
agreements (see    Trading and Other Securities ).      

         273

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Mortgage Loans     
  Mortgage loans are summarized as follows at:   

(1)  
    The valuation allowance on and the related carrying value of certain residential mortgage loans held-for-investment was transferred to mortgage
loans held-for-sale in connection with the pending disposition of certain operations of MetLife Bank. See Note 2.          

(2)  
    See Note 1 for a discussion of the securitized reverse residential mortgage loans.      
   See    Variable Interest Entities  for discussion of CSEs included in the table
above and the decrease in commercial mortgage loans held by CSEs.      Certain of the Company s real estate
joint ventures have mortgage loans with the Company. The carrying values of such mortgage loans were $286 million and $283 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
         274

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The following tables present the recorded investment in mortgage loans
held for investment, by portfolio segment, by method of evaluation of credit loss, and the related valuation allowances, by type of credit loss, at:       

The following tables present the changes in the valuation allowance, by portfolio segment:   

(1)  
    The valuation allowance on and the related carrying value of certain residential mortgage loans held-for-investment was transferred to mortgage
loans held-for-sale in connection with the pending disposition of certain operations of MetLife Bank. See Note 2.      

         275

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Commercial Mortgage Loans   by Credit Quality Indicators with
Estimated Fair Value.   See Note 1 for a discussion of all credit quality indicators presented herein. Presented below for the commercial mortgage loans held-for-investment is the recorded investment, prior to valuation allowances, by
the indicated loan-to-value ratio categories and debt service coverage ratio categories and estimated fair value of such mortgage loans by the indicated loan-to-value ratio categories at:   

Agricultural Mortgage Loans   by Credit Quality Indicator.   The recorded
investment in agricultural mortgage loans held-for-investment, prior to valuation allowances, by credit quality indicator, is as shown below. The estimated fair value of agricultural mortgage loans held-for-investment was $13.6 billion and $12.9
billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.           

276

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Residential Mortgage Loans   by Credit Quality
Indicator.   The recorded investment in residential mortgage loans held-for-investment, prior to valuation allowances, by credit quality indicator, is as shown below. The estimated fair value of residential mortgage loans
held-for-investment was $737 million and $2.3 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.       

Past Due and Interest Accrual Status of Mortgage Loans.   The Company has a high
quality, well performing, mortgage loan portfolio, with approximately 99% of all mortgage loans classified as performing at both December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. The Company defines delinquent mortgage loans consistent with
industry practice, when interest and principal payments are past due as follows: commercial mortgage loans   60 days or more; agricultural mortgage loans   90 days or more; and residential mortgage loans   60 days or more. The
recorded investment in mortgage loans held-for-investment, prior to valuation allowances, past due according to these aging categories, greater than 90 days past due and still accruing interest and in nonaccrual status, by portfolio segment, were as
follows at:           

277

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Impaired Mortgage Loans.  The unpaid principal balance,
recorded investment, valuation allowances and carrying value, net of valuation allowances, for impaired mortgage loans held-for-investment, including those modified in a troubled debt restructuring, by portfolio segment, were as follows at:

Unpaid principal balance is generally prior to any charge-offs.   
  The average investment in impaired mortgage loans held-for-investment, including those modified in a troubled debt
restructuring, and the related interest income, by portfolio segment, for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and for all mortgage loans for the year ended December 31, 2009, was:   

278

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Mortgage Loans Modified in a Troubled Debt
Restructuring.  See Note 1 for a discussion of loan modifications that are classified as trouble debt restructuring and the types of concession typically granted. At December 31, 2011, the number of mortgage loans and carrying value
after specific valuation allowance of mortgage loans modified during the period in a troubled debt restructuring were as follows:       

During the previous 12 months, the Company had four agricultural mortgage loans, with a carrying value
after specific valuation allowance of $13 million, modified in a troubled debt restructuring with a subsequent payment default at December 31, 2011. There were no commercial or residential mortgage loans during the previous 12 months
modified in a troubled debt restructuring with a subsequent payment default at December 31, 2011. Payment default is determined in the same manner as delinquency status   when interest and principal payments are past due as follows:
commercial mortgage loans   60 days or more; agricultural mortgage loans   90 days or more; and residential mortgage loans   60 days or more.   
    Real Estate and Real Estate Joint Ventures     
  Real estate investments by type consisted of the following:   

The Company classifies within traditional real estate its investment in income-producing real estate,
which is comprised primarily of wholly-owned real estate and, to a much lesser extent, joint ventures with interests in single property income-producing real estate. The estimated fair value of the traditional real estate investment portfolio was
$7.7 billion and $6.3 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company classifies within real estate joint ventures and funds, its investments in joint ventures with interests in multi-property
  
         279

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
projects with varying strategies ranging from the development of properties to the operation of income-producing properties; as well as its investments in real estate private equity funds. From
time to time, the Company transfers investments from these joint ventures to traditional real estate, if the Company retains an interest in the joint venture after a completed property commences operations and the Company intends to retain an
interest in the property.      Properties acquired through foreclosure were $295 million, $165 million
and $127 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and include commercial, agricultural and residential properties. After the Company acquires properties through foreclosure, it evaluates whether the
properties are appropriate for retention in its traditional real estate portfolio. Foreclosed real estate held at December 31, 2011 and 2010 includes those properties the Company has not selected for retention in its traditional real estate
portfolio and which do not meet the criteria to be classified as held-for-sale.      The wholly-owned real estate
within traditional real estate is net of accumulated depreciation of $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Related depreciation expense on traditional wholly-owned real estate was $164 million,
$151 million and $135 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These amounts include depreciation expense related to discontinued operations of $7 million, $16 million and $17 million
for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.      There were no impairments recognized
on real estate held-for-investment for the year ended December 31, 2011. Impairments recognized on real estate held-for-investment were $48 million and $160 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
Impairments recognized on real estate held-for-sale were $2 million and $1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. There were no impairments recognized on real estate held-for-sale for the year ended
December 31, 2009. The Company s carrying value of real estate held-for-sale has been reduced by impairments recorded prior to 2009 of $1 million at both December 31, 2011 and 2010. The carrying value of non-income producing real
estate was $182 million and $137 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.        Other Limited
Partnership Interests        The carrying value of other limited partnership interests (which primarily
represent ownership interests in pooled investment funds that principally make private equity investments in companies in the United States and overseas) was $6.4 billion at both December 31, 2011 and 2010. Included within other limited
partnership interests were $1.1 billion and $1.0 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, of investments in hedge funds. Impairments of other limited partnership interests, principally other limited partnership interests accounted
for under the cost method, were $5 million, $12 million and $354 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.        Collectively Significant Equity Method Investments     
  The Company holds investments in real estate joint ventures, real estate funds and other limited partnership interests
consisting of leveraged buy-out funds, hedge funds, private equity funds, joint ventures and other funds. The portion of these investments accounted for under the equity method had a carrying value of $9.5 billion as of December 31, 2011. The
Company s maximum exposure to loss related to these equity method investments is limited to the carrying value of these investments plus unfunded commitments of $3.5 billion as of December 31, 2011. Except for certain real estate
joint ventures, the Company s investments in real estate funds and other limited partnership interests are generally of a passive nature in that the Company does not participate in the management of the entities.   
         280

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   As further described in Note 1, the Company generally records its share
of earnings in its equity method investments using a three-month lag methodology and within net investment income. Aggregate net investment income from these equity method real estate joint ventures, real estate funds and other limited partnership
interests exceeded 10% of the Company s consolidated pre-tax income (loss) from continuing operations for two of the three most recent annual periods: 2010 and 2009. The Company is providing the following aggregated summarized financial data
for such equity method investments, for the most recent annual periods, in order to provide comparative information. This aggregated summarized financial data does not represent the Company s proportionate share of the assets, liabilities, or
earnings of such entities.      As of, and for the year ended December 31, 2011, the aggregated summarized
financial data presented below reflects the latest available financial information. Aggregate total assets of these entities totaled $266.4 billion and $262.9 billion as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Aggregate total liabilities
of these entities totaled $31.2 billion and $77.6 billion as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Aggregate net income (loss) of these entities totaled $9.7 billion, $18.7 billion and $22.8 billion for the years ended December 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Aggregate net income (loss) from real estate joint ventures, real estate funds and other limited partnership interests is primarily comprised of investment income, including recurring investment income and realized
and unrealized investment gains (losses).        Other Invested Assets     
  The following table presents the carrying value of the Company s other invested assets by type at:   

See Note 4 for information regarding the freestanding derivatives with positive estimated fair
values. See   Leveraged Leases  for the composition of leveraged leases. Tax credit partnerships are established for the purpose of investing in low-income housing and other social causes, where the primary return on investment is in
the form of income tax credits, and are accounted for under the equity method or under the effective yield method. See Note 5 for activity rollforwards for MSRs. Funds withheld represent amounts contractually withheld by ceding companies in
accordance with reinsurance agreements. Joint venture investments are accounted for under the equity method and represent the Company s investment in insurance underwriting joint ventures in China, Japan (see Note 2) and Chile.   

         281

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Leveraged Leases    
  Investment in leveraged leases, included in other invested assets, consisted of the following:   

Rental receivables are generally due in periodic installments. The payment periods range from one to 15
years, but in certain circumstances are as long as 34 years. For rental receivables, the primary credit quality indicator is whether the rental receivable is performing or non-performing, which is assessed monthly. The Company generally defines
non-performing rental receivables as those that are 90 days or more past due. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, all rental receivables were performing.      The deferred income tax liability related to leveraged leases was $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
  The components of income from investment in leveraged leases, excluding realized gains (losses) were as follows:

Cash Equivalents     
  The carrying value of cash equivalents, which includes securities and other investments with an original or remaining
maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase, was $5.0 billion and $9.6 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.        Purchased Credit Impaired Investments        Investments
acquired with evidence of credit quality deterioration since origination and for which it is probable at the acquisition date that the Company will be unable to collect all contractually required payments are classified as purchased credit impaired
investments. For each investment, the excess of the cash flows expected to be collected as of the acquisition date over its acquisition-date fair value is referred to as the accretable yield and is recognized as net investment income on an effective
yield basis. If subsequently, based on current information and events, it is probable that there is a significant increase in cash flows previously expected to be collected or if actual cash flows are significantly greater than cash flows previously
expected to be collected, the accretable yield is adjusted prospectively. The excess of the contractually required payments (including interest) as of the acquisition date over the cash flows expected to be collected as of the acquisition
  
         282

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
date is referred to as the nonaccretable difference, and this amount is not expected to be realized as net investment income. Decreases in cash flows expected to be collected can result in OTTI
or the recognition of mortgage loan valuation allowances (see Note 1).      The table below presents the purchased
credit impaired investments, by invested asset class, held at:           

(1)  
    Represents the contractually required payments which is the sum of contractual principal, whether or not currently due, and accrued interest.

(2)  
    Estimated fair value plus accrued interest for fixed maturity securities and amortized cost, plus accrued interest, less any valuation allowances,
for mortgage loans.      
   The following table presents information about purchased credit impaired investments acquired during
the periods, as of their respective acquisition dates:           

(1)  
    Represents undiscounted principal and interest cash flow expectations, at the date of acquisition.      

(2)  
    A portion of the difference between the contractually required payments (including interest) and the cash flows expected to be collected on certain
of the investments acquired in the Acquisition has been established as an indemnification asset as discussed further in Note 2.      
   The following table presents activity for the accretable yield on purchased credit impaired investments
for:           

283

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)  
    As described further in Note 2, all investments acquired in the Acquisition were recorded at estimated fair value as of the Acquisition Date. This
activity relates to acquired fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans with a credit impairment inherent in the estimated fair value.           Variable Interest Entities        The Company holds
investments in certain entities that are VIEs. In certain instances, the Company holds both the power to direct the most significant activities of the entity, as well as an economic interest in the entity and, as such, is deemed to be the primary
beneficiary or consolidator of the entity. The following table presents the total assets and total liabilities relating to VIEs for which the Company has concluded that it is the primary beneficiary and which are consolidated at December 31,
2011 and 2010. Creditors or beneficial interest holders of VIEs where the Company is the primary beneficiary have no recourse to the general credit of the Company, as the Company s obligation to the VIEs is limited to the amount of its
committed investment.           

284

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)  
    The Company consolidates former QSPEs that are structured as CMBS and former QSPEs that are structured as collateralized debt obligations. The
assets of these entities can only be used to settle their respective liabilities, and under no circumstances is the Company liable for any principal or interest shortfalls should any arise. The Company s exposure was limited to that of its
remaining investment in the former QSPEs of $172 million and $201 million at estimated fair value at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The long-term debt presented below bears interest primarily at fixed rates ranging from
2.25% to 5.57%, payable primarily on a monthly basis and is expected to be repaid over the next six years. Interest expense related to these obligations, included in other expenses, was $324 million and $411 million for the years ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company sold certain of these CMBS investments in the third quarter of 2011, resulting in the deconsolidation of such entities and their related mortgage loans held-for-investment and long-term
debt. The assets and liabilities of these CSEs, at estimated fair value, were as follows at:           

(2)  
    See Note 12 for a description of the MetLife Reinsurance Company of South Carolina ( MRSC ) collateral financing arrangement. These assets
consist of the following, at estimated fair value, at:           

285

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The following table presents the carrying amount and maximum exposure to
loss relating to VIEs for which the Company holds significant variable interests but is not the primary beneficiary and which have not been consolidated at:       

(1)  
    The maximum exposure to loss relating to the fixed maturity and trading and other securities is equal to the carrying amounts or carrying amounts of
retained interests. The maximum exposure to loss relating to the other limited partnership interests and real estate joint ventures is equal to the carrying amounts plus any unfunded commitments of the Company. Such a maximum loss would be expected
to occur only upon bankruptcy of the issuer or investee. The maximum exposure to loss relating to mortgage loans is equal to the carrying amounts plus any unfunded commitments of the Company. For certain of its investments in other invested assets,
the Company s return is in the form of income tax credits which are guaranteed by a creditworthy third party. For such investments, the maximum exposure to loss is equal to the carrying amounts plus any unfunded commitments, reduced by income
tax credits guaranteed by third parties of $267 million and $231 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.          

(2)  
    For these variable interests, the Company s involvement is limited to that of a passive investor.      
   As described in Note 16, the Company makes commitments to fund partnership investments in the normal
course of business. Excluding these commitments, the Company did not provide financial or other support to investees designated as VIEs during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.   
    4. Derivative Financial Instruments    
     Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments     
  See Note 1 for a description of the Company s accounting policies for derivative financial instruments.   
  See Note 5 for information about the fair value hierarchy for derivatives.   
         286

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Primary Risks Managed by Derivative Financial Instruments and Non-Derivative
Financial Instruments        The Company is exposed to various risks relating to its ongoing business
operations, including interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, credit risk and equity market risk. The Company uses a variety of strategies to manage these risks, including the use of derivative instruments. The following table presents the gross
notional amount, estimated fair value and primary underlying risk exposure of the Company s derivative financial instruments, excluding embedded derivatives, held at:   

(1)  
    The estimated fair value of all derivatives in an asset position is reported within other invested assets in the consolidated balance sheets and the
estimated fair value of all derivatives in a liability position is reported within other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.          

(2)  
    The estimated fair value of non-derivative hedging instruments represents the amortized cost of the instruments, as adjusted for foreign currency
transaction gains or losses. Non-derivative hedging instruments are reported within PABs in the consolidated balance sheets.      

         287

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The following table presents the gross notional amount of derivative
financial instruments by maturity at December 31, 2011:           

Interest rate swaps are used by the Company primarily to reduce market risks from changes in interest
rates and to alter interest rate exposure arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities (duration mismatches). In an interest rate swap, the Company agrees with another party to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed
rate and floating rate interest amounts as calculated by reference to an agreed notional principal amount. These transactions are entered into pursuant to master agreements that provide for a single net payment to be made by the counterparty at each
due date. The Company utilizes interest rate swaps in fair value, cash flow and non-qualifying hedging relationships.      The Company also enters into basis swaps to better match the cash flows from assets and related liabilities. In a basis swap, both legs of the swap are floating with each based on a different index.
Generally, no cash is exchanged at the outset of the contract and no principal payments are made by either party. A single net payment is usually made by one counterparty at each due date. Basis swaps are included in interest rate swaps in the
preceding table. The Company utilizes basis swaps in non-qualifying hedging relationships.      Inflation swaps
are used as an economic hedge to reduce inflation risk generated from inflation-indexed liabilities. Inflation swaps are included in interest rate swaps in the preceding table. The Company utilizes inflation swaps in non-qualifying hedging
relationships.      Implied volatility swaps are used by the Company primarily as economic hedges of interest rate
risk associated with the Company s investments in mortgage-backed securities. In an implied volatility swap, the Company exchanges fixed payments for floating payments that are linked to certain market volatility measures. If implied volatility
rises, the floating payments that the Company receives will increase, and if implied volatility   
         288

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
falls, the floating payments that the Company receives will decrease. Implied volatility swaps are included in interest rate swaps in the preceding table. The Company utilizes implied volatility
swaps in non-qualifying hedging relationships.      The Company uses structured interest rate swaps to
synthetically create investments that are either more expensive to acquire or otherwise unavailable in the cash markets. These transactions are a combination of a derivative and a cash instrument such as a U.S. Treasury, agency, or other fixed
maturity security. Structured interest rate swaps are included in interest rate swaps in the preceding table. Structured interest rate swaps are not designated as hedging instruments.   
  The Company purchases interest rate caps and floors primarily to protect its floating rate liabilities against rises in
interest rates above a specified level, and against interest rate exposure arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities (duration mismatches), as well as to protect its minimum rate guarantee liabilities against declines in interest rates
below a specified level, respectively. In certain instances, the Company locks in the economic impact of existing purchased caps and floors by entering into offsetting written caps and floors. The Company utilizes interest rate caps and floors in
non-qualifying hedging relationships.      In exchange-traded interest rate (Treasury and swap) futures
transactions, the Company agrees to purchase or sell a specified number of contracts, the value of which is determined by the different classes of interest rate securities, and to post variation margin on a daily basis in an amount equal to the
difference in the daily market values of those contracts. The Company enters into exchange-traded futures with regulated futures commission merchants that are members of the exchange. Exchange-traded interest rate (Treasury and swap) futures are
used primarily to hedge mismatches between the duration of assets in a portfolio and the duration of liabilities supported by those assets, to hedge against changes in value of securities the Company owns or anticipates acquiring and to hedge
against changes in interest rates on anticipated liability issuances by replicating Treasury or swap curve performance. The Company utilizes exchange-traded interest rate futures in non-qualifying hedging relationships.   
  Swaptions are used by the Company to hedge interest rate risk associated with the Company s long-term liabilities
and invested assets. A swaption is an option to enter into a swap with a forward starting effective date. In certain instances, the Company locks in the economic impact of existing purchased swaptions by entering into offsetting written swaptions.
The Company pays a premium for purchased swaptions and receives a premium for written swaptions. Swaptions are included in interest rate options in the preceding table. The Company utilizes swaptions in non-qualifying hedging relationships.
     The Company writes covered call options on its portfolio of U.S. Treasury securities as an income
generation strategy. In a covered call transaction, the Company receives a premium at the inception of the contract in exchange for giving the derivative counterparty the right to purchase the referenced security from the Company at a predetermined
price. The call option is  covered  because the Company owns the referenced security over the term of the option. Covered call options are included in interest rate options in the preceding table. The Company utilizes covered call options
in non-qualifying hedging relationships.      The Company enters into interest rate forwards to buy and sell
securities. The price is agreed upon at the time of the contract and payment for such a contract is made at a specified future date. The Company also uses interest rate forwards to sell to be announced securities as economic hedges against the risk
of changes in the fair value of mortgage loans held-for-sale and interest rate lock commitments. The Company utilizes interest rate forwards in cash flow and non-qualifying hedging relationships.   
  Interest rate lock commitments are short-term commitments to fund mortgage loan applications in process (the pipeline)
for a fixed term for a fixed rate or spread. During the term of an interest rate lock commitment, the Company is exposed to the risk that interest rates will change from the rate quoted to the potential borrower.
  
         289

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
Interest rate lock commitments to fund mortgage loans that will be held-for-sale are considered derivative instruments. Interest rate lock commitments are included in interest rate forwards in
the preceding table. Interest rate lock commitments are not designated as hedging instruments.      A synthetic
GIC is a contract that simulates the performance of a traditional guaranteed interest contract through the use of financial instruments. Under a synthetic GIC, the policyholder owns the underlying assets. The Company guarantees a rate return on
those assets for a premium. Synthetic GICs are not designated as hedging instruments.      Foreign currency
derivatives, including foreign currency swaps, foreign currency forwards, currency options, and currency futures contracts, are used by the Company to reduce the risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates associated with its assets
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. The Company also uses foreign currency forwards and swaps to hedge the foreign currency risk associated with certain of its net investments in foreign operations.   
  In a foreign currency swap transaction, the Company agrees with another party to exchange, at specified intervals, the
difference between one currency and another at a fixed exchange rate, generally set at inception, calculated by reference to an agreed upon principal amount. The principal amount of each currency is exchanged at the inception and termination of the
currency swap by each party. The Company utilizes foreign currency swaps in fair value, cash flow, net investment in foreign operations and non-qualifying hedging relationships.   
  In a foreign currency forward transaction, the Company agrees with another party to deliver a specified amount of an
identified currency at a specified future date. The price is agreed upon at the time of the contract and payment for such a contract is made in a different currency at the specified future date. The Company utilizes foreign currency forwards in fair
value, net investment in foreign operations and non-qualifying hedging relationships.      In exchange-traded
currency futures transactions, the Company agrees to purchase or sell a specified number of contracts, the value of which is determined by referenced currencies, and to post variation margin on a daily basis in an amount equal to the difference in
the daily market values of those contracts. The Company enters into exchange-traded futures with regulated futures commission merchants that are members of the exchange. Exchange-traded currency futures are used primarily to hedge currency
mismatches between assets and liabilities. The Company utilizes exchange-traded currency futures in non-qualifying hedging relationships.      The Company enters into currency option contracts that give it the right, but not the obligation, to sell the foreign currency amount in exchange for a functional currency amount within a limited time at
a contracted price. The contracts may also be net settled in cash, based on differentials in the foreign exchange rate and the strike price. The Company uses currency options to hedge against the foreign currency exposure inherent in certain of its
variable annuity products. The Company also uses currency options as an economic hedge of foreign currency exposure related to the Company s international subsidiaries. The Company utilizes currency options in non-qualifying hedging
relationships.      The Company uses certain of its foreign currency denominated funding agreements to hedge
portions of its net investments in foreign operations against adverse movements in exchange rates. Such contracts are included in non-derivative hedging instruments in the preceding table.   
  Swap spreadlocks are used by the Company to hedge invested assets on an economic basis against the risk of changes in
credit spreads. Swap spreadlocks are forward transactions between two parties whose underlying reference index is a forward starting interest rate swap where the Company agrees to pay a coupon based on a
  
         290

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
predetermined reference swap spread in exchange for receiving a coupon based on a floating rate. The Company has the option to cash settle with the counterparty in lieu of maintaining the swap
after the effective date. The Company utilizes swap spreadlocks in non-qualifying hedging relationships.   
  Certain credit default swaps are used by the Company to hedge against credit-related changes in the value of its
investments. In a credit default swap transaction, the Company agrees with another party, at specified intervals, to pay a premium to hedge credit risk. If a credit event, as defined by the contract, occurs, the contract may be cash settled or it
may be settled gross by the delivery of par quantities of the referenced investment equal to the specified swap notional in exchange for the payment of cash amounts by the counterparty equal to the par value of the investment surrendered. The
Company utilizes credit default swaps in non-qualifying hedging relationships.      Credit default swaps are also
used to synthetically create investments that are either more expensive to acquire or otherwise unavailable in the cash markets. These transactions are a combination of a derivative and one or more cash instruments such as U.S. Treasury
securities, agency securities or other fixed maturity securities. The Company also enters into certain credit default swaps held in relation to trading portfolios for the purpose of generating profits on short-term differences in price. These credit
default swaps are not designated as hedging instruments.      The Company enters into forwards to lock in the
price to be paid for forward purchases of certain securities. The price is agreed upon at the time of the contract and payment for the contract is made at a specified future date. When the primary purpose of entering into these transactions is to
hedge against the risk of changes in purchase price due to changes in credit spreads, the Company designates these as credit forwards. The Company utilizes credit forwards in cash flow hedging relationships.   
  In exchange-traded equity futures transactions, the Company agrees to purchase or sell a specified number of contracts,
the value of which is determined by the different classes of equity securities, and to post variation margin on a daily basis in an amount equal to the difference in the daily market values of those contracts. The Company enters into exchange-traded
futures with regulated futures commission merchants that are members of the exchange. Exchange-traded equity futures are used primarily to hedge liabilities embedded in certain variable annuity products offered by the Company. The Company utilizes
exchange-traded equity futures in non-qualifying hedging relationships.      Equity index options are used by the
Company primarily to hedge minimum guarantees embedded in certain variable annuity products offered by the Company. To hedge against adverse changes in equity indices, the Company enters into contracts to sell the equity index within a limited time
at a contracted price. The contracts will be net settled in cash based on differentials in the indices at the time of exercise and the strike price. Certain of these contracts may also contain settlement provisions linked to interest rates. In
certain instances, the Company may enter into a combination of transactions to hedge adverse changes in equity indices within a pre-determined range through the purchase and sale of options. Equity index options are included in equity options in the
preceding table. The Company utilizes equity index options in non-qualifying hedging relationships.      Equity
variance swaps are used by the Company primarily to hedge minimum guarantees embedded in certain variable annuity products offered by the Company. In an equity variance swap, the Company agrees with another party to exchange amounts in the future,
based on changes in equity volatility over a defined period. Equity variance swaps are included in variance swaps in the preceding table. The Company utilizes equity variance swaps in non-qualifying hedging relationships.   
         291

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Total rate of return swaps ( TRRs ) are swaps whereby the
Company agrees with another party to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between the economic risk and reward of an asset or a market index and the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ), calculated by reference to an agreed
notional principal amount. No cash is exchanged at the outset of the contract. Cash is paid and received over the life of the contract based on the terms of the swap. These transactions are entered into pursuant to master agreements that provide for
a single net payment to be made by the counterparty at each due date. The Company uses TRRs to hedge its equity market guarantees in certain of its insurance products. TRRs can be used as hedges or to synthetically create investments. The Company
utilizes TRRs in non-qualifying hedging relationships.        Hedging     
  The following table presents the gross notional amount and estimated fair value of derivatives designated as hedging
instruments by type of hedge designation at:           

292

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The following table presents the gross notional amount and estimated
fair value of derivatives that were not designated or do not qualify as hedging instruments by derivative type at:       

Net Derivative Gains (Losses)     
  The components of net derivative gains (losses) were as follows:   

(1)  
    Includes foreign currency transaction gains (losses) on hedged items in cash flow and non-qualifying hedging relationships, which are not presented
elsewhere in this note.      

         293

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The following table presents earned income on derivatives for the:

Fair Value Hedges     
  The Company designates and accounts for the following as fair value hedges when they have met the requirements of fair
value hedging: (i) interest rate swaps to convert fixed rate investments to floating rate investments; (ii) interest rate swaps to convert fixed rate liabilities to floating rate liabilities; (iii) foreign currency swaps to hedge the
foreign currency fair value exposure of foreign currency denominated investments and liabilities; and (iv) foreign currency forwards to hedge the foreign currency fair value exposure of foreign currency denominated fixed rate investments.
  
         294

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The Company recognizes gains and losses on derivatives and the related
hedged items in fair value hedges within net derivative gains (losses). The following table represents the amount of such net derivative gains (losses):       

(1)  
    Fixed rate liabilities.          

(2)  
    Fixed rate or floating rate liabilities.      
   For the Company s foreign currency forwards, the change in the fair value of the derivative
related to the changes in the difference between the spot price and the forward price is excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. For all other derivatives, all components of each derivative s gain or loss were included in the
assessment of hedge effectiveness. For the year ended December 31, 2011, ($3) million of the change in fair value of derivatives was excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, no
component of the change in fair value of derivatives was excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.   
         295

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Cash Flow Hedges     
  The Company designates and accounts for the following as cash flow hedges when they have met the requirements of cash
flow hedging: (i) interest rate swaps to convert floating rate investments to fixed rate investments; (ii) interest rate swaps to convert floating rate liabilities to fixed rate liabilities; (iii) foreign currency swaps to hedge the
foreign currency cash flow exposure of foreign currency denominated investments and liabilities; (iv) interest rate forwards and credit forwards to lock in the price to be paid for forward purchases of investments; (v) interest rate swaps
and interest rate forwards to hedge the forecasted purchases of fixed-rate investments; and (vi) interest rate swaps and interest rate forwards to hedge forecasted fixed-rate borrowings.   
  In certain instances, the Company discontinued cash flow hedge accounting because the forecasted transactions did not
occur on the anticipated date, within two months of that date, or were no longer probable of occurring. The net amounts reclassified into net derivative gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 related to such
discontinued cash flow hedges were gains (losses) of ($13) million, $9 million and ($7) million, respectively.      At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the maximum length of time over which the Company was hedging its exposure to variability in future cash flows for forecasted transactions did not exceed nine years and
seven years, respectively.      The following table presents the components of accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss), before income tax, related to cash flow hedges:           

At December 31, 2011, $13 million of deferred net gains (losses) on derivatives in accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss) was expected to be reclassified to earnings within the next 12 months.   
         296

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The following table presents the effects of derivatives in cash flow
hedging relationships on the consolidated statements of operations and the consolidated statements of equity:       

All
components of each derivative s gain or loss were included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness.        Hedges of Net
Investments in Foreign Operations        The Company uses foreign exchange contracts, which may include
foreign currency swaps, forwards and options, to hedge portions of its net investments in foreign operations against adverse movements in exchange rates. The Company measures ineffectiveness on these contracts based upon the change in forward rates.
In addition, the Company may also use non-derivative financial instruments to hedge portions of its net investments in foreign operations against adverse movements in exchange rates. The Company measures ineffectiveness on non-derivative financial
instruments based upon the change in spot rates.      When net investments in foreign operations are sold or
substantially liquidated, the amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are reclassified to the consolidated statements of operations, while a pro rata portion will be reclassified upon partial sale of the net investments in foreign
operations.   
         297

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The following table presents the effects of derivatives and
non-derivative financial instruments in net investment hedging relationships in the consolidated statements of operations and the consolidated statements of equity:       

(1)  
    During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company sold its interest in MSI MetLife, which was a hedged item in a net investment hedging
relationship. As a result, the Company released losses of $71 million from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) upon the sale. This release did not impact net income for the year ended December 31, 2011 as such losses were considered
in the overall impairment evaluation of the investment prior to sale. During the year ended December 31, 2010, there were no sales or substantial liquidations of net investments in foreign operations that would have required the
reclassification of gains or losses from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into earnings. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company substantially liquidated, through assumption reinsurance, the portion of its Canadian
operations that was being hedged in a net investment hedging relationship. As a result, the Company reclassified losses of $133 million from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into earnings. See Note 2.      

(2)  
    There was no ineffectiveness recognized for the Company s hedges of net investments in foreign operations. All components of each derivative
and non-derivative hedging instrument s gain or loss were included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness.      
   At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the cumulative foreign currency translation gain (loss) recorded in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) related to hedges of net investments in foreign operations was ($84) million and ($223) million, respectively.        Non-Qualifying Derivatives and Derivatives for Purposes Other Than Hedging        The Company enters into the following derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting or for purposes other than hedging: (i) interest rate swaps, implied volatility swaps, caps and floors and
interest rate futures to economically hedge its exposure to interest rates; (ii) foreign currency forwards, swaps, option contracts and future contracts to economically hedge its exposure to adverse movements in exchange rates;
(iii) credit default swaps to economically hedge exposure to adverse movements in credit; (iv) equity futures, equity index options, interest rate futures, TRRs and equity variance swaps to economically hedge liabilities embedded in
certain variable annuity products; (v) swap spreadlocks to economically hedge invested assets against the risk of changes in credit spreads; (vi) interest rate forwards to buy and sell securities to economically hedge its exposure to
interest rates; (vii) credit default swaps, TRRs and structured interest rate swaps to synthetically create   
         298

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
investments; (viii) basis swaps to better match the cash flows of assets and related liabilities; (ix) credit default swaps held in relation to trading portfolios; (x) swaptions to
hedge interest rate risk; (xi) inflation swaps to reduce risk generated from inflation-indexed liabilities; (xii) covered call options for income generation; (xiii) interest rate lock commitments; (xiv) synthetic GICs; and
(xv) equity options to economically hedge certain invested assets against adverse changes in equity indices.      The following tables present the amount and location of gains (losses) recognized in income for derivatives that were not designated or qualifying as hedging instruments:   

299

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)  
    Changes in estimated fair value related to economic hedges of equity method investments in joint ventures; changes in estimated fair value related
to derivatives held in relation to trading portfolios; and changes in estimated fair value related to derivatives held within contractholder-directed unit-linked investments.      

(2)  
    Changes in estimated fair value related to economic hedges of variable annuity guarantees included in future policy benefits.

(3)  
    Changes in estimated fair value related to derivatives held in connection with the Company s mortgage banking activities.

(4)  
    Changes in estimated fair value related to economic hedges of foreign currency exposure associated with the Company s international
subsidiaries.      
     Credit Derivatives     
  In connection with synthetically created investment transactions and credit default swaps held in relation to the trading
portfolio, the Company writes credit default swaps for which it receives a premium to insure credit risk. Such credit derivatives are included within the non-qualifying derivatives and derivatives for purposes other than hedging table. If a credit
event occurs, as defined by the contract, the contract may be cash settled or it may be settled gross by the Company paying the counterparty the specified swap notional amount in exchange for the delivery of par quantities of the referenced credit
obligation. The Company s maximum amount at risk, assuming the value of all referenced credit obligations is zero, was $7.7 billion and $5.1 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company can terminate these contracts at
any time through cash settlement with the counterparty at an amount equal to the then current fair value of the credit default swaps. At December 31, 2011, the Company would have paid $41 million to terminate all of these contracts, and at
December 31, 2010, the Company would have received $62 million to terminate all of these contracts.   
         300

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The following table presents the estimated fair value, maximum amount of
future payments and weighted average years to maturity of written credit default swaps at:           

(1)  
    The rating agency designations are based on availability and the midpoint of the applicable ratings among Moody s Investors Service, S P
and Fitch Ratings. If no rating is available from a rating agency, then an internally developed rating is used.          

(2)  
    Assumes the value of the referenced credit obligations is zero.      

(3)  
    The weighted average years to maturity of the credit default swaps is calculated based on weighted average notional amounts.

301

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The Company has also entered into credit default swaps to purchase
credit protection on certain of the referenced credit obligations in the table above. As a result, the maximum amounts of potential future recoveries available to offset the $7.7 billion and $5.1 billion from the table above were
$115 million and $120 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.        Credit Risk on Freestanding
Derivatives        The Company may be exposed to credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by
counterparties to derivative financial instruments. Generally, the current credit exposure of the Company s derivative contracts is limited to the net positive estimated fair value of derivative contracts at the reporting date after taking into
consideration the existence of netting agreements and any collateral received pursuant to credit support annexes.      The Company manages its credit risk related to OTC derivatives by entering into transactions with creditworthy counterparties, maintaining collateral arrangements and through the use of master agreements
that provide for a single net payment to be made by one counterparty to another at each due date and upon termination. Because exchange-traded futures and options are effected through regulated exchanges, and positions are marked to market on a
daily basis, the Company has minimal exposure to credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to such derivative instruments. See Note 5 for a description of the impact of credit risk on the valuation of derivative
instruments.      The Company enters into various collateral arrangements which require both the pledging and
accepting of collateral in connection with its OTC derivative instruments. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company was obligated to return cash collateral under its control of $9.5 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively. This cash
collateral is included in cash and cash equivalents or in short-term investments and the obligation to return it is included in payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions in the consolidated balance sheets. At
December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had received collateral consisting of various securities with a fair market value of $2.5 billion and $984 million, respectively, which were held in separate custodial accounts. Subject to
certain constraints, the Company is permitted by contract to sell or repledge this collateral, but at December 31, 2011, none of the collateral had been sold or repledged.   
  The Company s collateral arrangements for its OTC derivatives generally require the counterparty in a net liability
position, after considering the effect of netting agreements, to pledge collateral when the fair value of that counterparty s derivatives reaches a pre-determined threshold. Certain of these arrangements also include credit-contingent
provisions that provide for a reduction of these thresholds (on a sliding scale that converges toward zero) in the event of downgrades in the credit ratings of the Company and/or the counterparty. In addition, certain of the Company s netting
agreements for derivative instruments contain provisions that require the Company to maintain a specific investment grade credit rating from at least one of the major credit rating agencies. If the Company s credit ratings were to fall below
that specific investment grade credit rating, it would be in violation of these provisions, and the counterparties to the derivative instruments could request immediate payment or demand immediate and ongoing full overnight collateralization on
derivative instruments that are in a net liability position after considering the effect of netting agreements.   
         302

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The following table presents the estimated fair value of the
Company s OTC derivatives that are in a net liability position after considering the effect of netting agreements, together with the estimated fair value and balance sheet location of the collateral pledged. The table also presents the
incremental collateral that the Company would be required to provide if there was a one notch downgrade in the Company s credit rating at the reporting date or if the Company s credit rating sustained a downgrade to a level that triggered
full overnight collateralization or termination of the derivative position at the reporting date. Derivatives that are not subject to collateral agreements are not included in the scope of this table.   

(1)  
    After taking into consideration the existence of netting agreements.      

(2)  
    Included in fixed maturity securities in the consolidated balance sheets. Subject to certain constraints, the counterparties are permitted by
contract to sell or repledge this collateral.          

(3)  
    Included in premiums, reinsurance and other receivables in the consolidated balance sheets.      
   Without considering the effect of netting agreements, the estimated fair value of the Company s
OTC derivatives with credit-contingent provisions that were in a gross liability position at December 31, 2011 was $777 million. At December 31, 2011, the Company provided collateral of $409 million in connection with these
derivatives. In the unlikely event that both: (i) the Company s credit rating was downgraded to a level that triggers full overnight collateralization or termination of all derivative positions; and (ii) the Company s netting
agreements were deemed to be legally unenforceable, then the additional collateral that the Company would be required to provide to its counterparties in connection with its derivatives in a gross liability position at December 31, 2011 would
be $368 million. This amount does not consider gross derivative assets of $330 million for which the Company has the contractual right of offset.      The Company also has exchange-traded futures and options, which require the pledging of collateral. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company pledged securities collateral for exchange-traded
futures and options   
         303

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
of $42 million and $40 million, respectively, which is included in fixed maturity securities. Subject to certain constraints, the counterparties are permitted by contract to sell or repledge this
collateral. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company provided cash collateral for exchange-traded futures and options of $680 million and $662 million, respectively, which is included in premiums, reinsurance and other receivables.
       Embedded Derivatives        The Company issues certain products or purchases certain investments that contain embedded derivatives that are required to be separated from their host contracts and accounted for as freestanding
derivatives. These host contracts principally include: variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits, including GMWBs, GMABs and certain GMIBs; ceded reinsurance of guaranteed minimum benefits related to GMABs and certain GMIBs; assumed
reinsurance of guaranteed minimum benefits related to GMWBs and GMABs; funding agreements with equity or bond indexed crediting rates; funds withheld on assumed and ceded reinsurance; and options embedded in debt or equity securities.   
  The following table presents the estimated fair value of the Company s embedded derivatives at:   

(1)  
    Assumed reinsurance of guaranteed minimum benefits related to GMWBs and GMABs of MSI MetLife, which was sold during the second quarter of 2011, have
been separately presented in the current period. See Note 2. Comparative prior year balances, which were previously presented in direct guaranteed minimum benefits, have been conformed to the current period presentation.
     
   The following table presents changes in estimated fair value related to embedded derivatives:

(1)  
    The valuation of guaranteed minimum benefits includes an adjustment for nonperformance risk. The amounts included in net derivative gains (losses),
in connection with this adjustment, were $1.8 billion, ($96) million and ($1.9) billion, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.      

         304

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

    5. Fair Value    
   Considerable judgment is often required in interpreting market data to develop estimates of fair
value, and the use of different assumptions or valuation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.       Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value         Recurring Fair Value
Measurements        The assets and liabilities measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis,
including those items for which the Company has elected the FVO, were determined as described below. These estimated fair values and their corresponding placement in the fair value hierarchy are summarized as follows:   

305

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

306

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)  
    Short-term investments as presented in the tables above differ from the amounts presented in the consolidated balance sheets because certain
short-term investments are not measured at estimated fair value (e.g., time deposits, etc.), and therefore are excluded from the tables presented above.      

(2)  
    Mortgage loans held-for-sale as presented in the tables above differ from the amount presented in the consolidated balance sheets as these tables do
not include mortgage loans that were previously designated as held-for-investment, but now are designated as held-for-sale and stated at lower of amortized cost or estimated fair value.      

(3)  
    Derivative liabilities are presented within other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. The amounts are presented gross in the tables
above to reflect the presentation in the consolidated balance sheets, but are presented net for purposes of the rollforward in the Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) tables which follow. At December 31,
2010 there were $185 million of non-derivative hedging instruments, carried at amortized cost, which are included within the liabilities total in Note 4 but excluded from derivative liabilities in the tables above as they are not
derivative instruments. At December 31, 2011, there were no non-derivative hedging instruments.          

(4)  
    Net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts are presented primarily within premiums, reinsurance and other receivables in the consolidated
balance sheets. Net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts are presented primarily within PABs in the consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2011, fixed maturity securities and equity securities also included embedded
derivatives of $2 million and ($72) million, respectively. At December 31, 2010, fixed maturity securities and equity securities included embedded derivatives of $5 million and ($62) million, respectively.

(5)  
    Separate account assets are measured at estimated fair value. Investment performance related to separate account assets is fully offset by
corresponding amounts credited to contractholders whose liability is reflected within separate account liabilities. Separate account liabilities are set equal to the estimated fair value of separate account assets.      

(6)  
    The liability related to securitized reverse residential mortgage loans and trading liabilities are presented within other liabilities in the
consolidated balance sheets.      
   See Note 3 for discussion of CSEs included in the tables above and for certain amounts in prior
year footnote disclosures which have been reclassified to conform with the 2011 presentation.   
         307

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of financial
instruments are summarized as follows:       Fixed Maturity Securities, Equity Securities, Trading and Other Securities and
Short-term Investments       When available, the estimated fair value of the Company s fixed maturity
securities, equity securities, trading and other securities and short-term investments are based on quoted prices in active markets that are readily and regularly obtainable. Generally, these are the most liquid of the Company s securities
holdings and valuation of these securities does not involve management s judgment.      When quoted prices in
active markets are not available, the determination of estimated fair value is based on market standard valuation methodologies, giving priority to observable inputs. The market standard valuation methodologies utilized include: discounted cash flow
methodologies, matrix pricing or other similar techniques. The inputs in applying these market standard valuation methodologies include, but are not limited to: interest rates, credit standing of the issuer or counterparty, industry sector of the
issuer, coupon rate, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, maturity and management s assumptions regarding estimated duration, liquidity and estimated future cash flows. Accordingly, the estimated fair values are based on available market
information and management s judgments about financial instruments.      The significant inputs to the market
standard valuation methodologies for certain types of securities with reasonable levels of price transparency are inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. Such observable
inputs include benchmarking prices for similar assets in active markets, quoted prices in markets that are not active and observable yields and spreads in the market.   
  When observable inputs are not available, the market standard valuation methodologies for determining the estimated fair
value of certain types of securities that trade infrequently, and therefore have little or no price transparency, rely on inputs that are significant to the estimated fair value that are not observable in the market or cannot be derived principally
from or corroborated by observable market data. These unobservable inputs can be based in large part on management s judgment or estimation and cannot be supported by reference to market activity. Even though these inputs are unobservable,
management believes they are consistent with what other market participants would use when pricing such securities and are considered appropriate given the circumstances.   
  The estimated fair value of FVO securities held by CSEs is determined on a basis consistent with the methodologies
described herein for fixed maturity securities and equity securities. The Company consolidates certain securitization entities that hold securities that have been accounted for under the FVO and classified within trading and other securities.
     The use of different methodologies, assumptions and inputs may have a material effect on the estimated fair
values of the Company s securities holdings.       Mortgage Loans    
  The Company has elected the FVO for commercial mortgage loans held by CSEs, residential mortgage loans held-for-sale and
securitized reverse residential mortgage loans. See Note 1 for a discussion of these mortgage loans. See    Valuation Techniques and Inputs by Level Within the Three-Level Fair Value Hierarchy by Major Classes of Assets and
Liabilities  below for a discussion of the methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of these financial instruments.   
         308

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    MSRs    
  Although MSRs are not financial instruments, the Company has included them in the preceding table as a result of its
election to carry MSRs at estimated fair value. See    Valuation Techniques and Inputs by Level Within the Three-Level Fair Value Hierarchy by Major Classes of Assets and Liabilities  below for a discussion of the methods and
assumptions used to estimate the fair value of these financial instruments.       Other Investments    
  Other investments is primarily comprised of investment funds. The estimated fair value of these investment funds is
determined on a basis consistent with the methodologies described herein for trading and other securities.       Derivatives
      The estimated fair value of derivatives is determined through the use of quoted market prices for
exchange-traded derivatives and interest rate forwards to sell certain to be announced securities, or through the use of pricing models for OTC derivatives. The determination of estimated fair value, when quoted market values are not available, is
based on market standard valuation methodologies and inputs that management believes are consistent with what other market participants would use when pricing the instruments. Derivative valuations can be affected by changes in interest rates,
foreign currency exchange rates, financial indices, credit spreads, default risk, nonperformance risk, volatility, liquidity and changes in estimates and assumptions used in the pricing models.   
  The significant inputs to the pricing models for most OTC derivatives are inputs that are observable in the market or can
be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. Significant inputs that are observable generally include: interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rate curves, credit curves and volatility. However, certain
OTC derivatives may rely on inputs that are significant to the estimated fair value that are not observable in the market or cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. Significant inputs that are unobservable
generally include: independent broker quotes, references to emerging market currencies and inputs that are outside the observable portion of the interest rate curve, credit curve, volatility or other relevant market measure. These unobservable
inputs may involve significant management judgment or estimation. Even though unobservable, these inputs are based on assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances and management believes they are consistent with what other market
participants would use when pricing such instruments.      The credit risk of both the counterparty and the
Company are considered in determining the estimated fair value for all OTC derivatives, and any potential credit adjustment is based on the net exposure by counterparty after taking into account the effects of netting agreements and collateral
arrangements. The Company values its derivative positions using the standard swap curve which includes a spread to the risk free rate. This credit spread is appropriate for those parties that execute trades at pricing levels consistent with the
standard swap curve. As the Company and its significant derivative counterparties consistently execute trades at such pricing levels, additional credit risk adjustments are not currently required in the valuation process. The Company s ability
to consistently execute at such pricing levels is in part due to the netting agreements and collateral arrangements that are in place with all of its significant derivative counterparties. The evaluation of the requirement to make additional credit
risk adjustments is performed by the Company each reporting period.      Most inputs for OTC derivatives are mid
market inputs but, in certain cases, bid level inputs are used when they are deemed more representative of exit value. Market liquidity, as well as the use of different methodologies, assumptions and inputs, may have a material effect on the
estimated fair values of the Company s derivatives and could materially affect net income.   
         309

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Embedded Derivatives Within Asset and Liability Host Contracts   
  Embedded derivatives principally include certain direct, assumed and ceded variable annuity guarantees and equity or bond
indexed crediting rates within certain funding agreements. Embedded derivatives are recorded at estimated fair value with changes in estimated fair value reported in net income.   
  The Company issues and assumes certain variable annuity products with guaranteed minimum benefits. GMWBs, GMABs and
certain GMIBs are embedded derivatives, which are measured at estimated fair value separately from the host variable annuity contract, with changes in estimated fair value reported in net derivative gains (losses). These embedded derivatives are
classified within PABs in the consolidated balance sheets.      The fair value of these guarantees is estimated
using the present value of projected future benefits minus the present value of projected future fees using actuarial and capital market assumptions including expectations concerning policyholder behavior. A risk neutral valuation methodology is
used under which the cash flows from the guarantees are projected under multiple capital market scenarios using observable risk free rates. The valuation of these guarantee liabilities includes adjustments for nonperformance risk and for a risk
margin related to non-capital market inputs.      The nonperformance adjustment is determined by taking into
consideration publicly available information relating to spreads in the secondary market for MetLife, Inc. s debt, including related credit default swaps. These observable spreads are then adjusted, as necessary, to reflect the priority of
these liabilities and the claims paying ability of the issuing insurance subsidiaries compared to MetLife, Inc.   
  Risk margins are established to capture the non-capital market risks of the instrument which represent the additional
compensation a market participant would require to assume the risks related to the uncertainties of such actuarial assumptions as annuitization, premium persistency, partial withdrawal and surrenders. The establishment of risk margins requires the
use of significant management judgment, including assumptions of the amount and cost of capital needed to cover the guarantees. These guarantees may be more costly than expected in volatile or declining equity markets. Market conditions including,
but not limited to, changes in interest rates, equity indices, market volatility and foreign currency exchange rates; changes in nonperformance risk; and variations in actuarial assumptions regarding policyholder behavior, mortality and risk margins
related to non-capital market inputs may result in significant fluctuations in the estimated fair value of the guarantees that could materially affect net income.   
  The Company ceded the risk associated with certain of the GMIBs and GMABs previously described. These reinsurance
agreements contain embedded derivatives which are included within premiums, reinsurance and other receivables in the consolidated balance sheets with changes in estimated fair value reported in net derivative gains (losses) or policyholder benefits
and claims depending on the statement of operations classification of the direct risk. The value of the embedded derivatives on the ceded risk is determined using a methodology consistent with that described previously for the guarantees directly
written by the Company with the exception of the input for nonperformance risk that reflects the credit of the reinsurer.      The estimated fair value of the embedded derivatives within funds withheld related to certain ceded reinsurance is determined based on the change in estimated fair value of the underlying assets held by
the Company in a reference portfolio backing the funds withheld liability. The estimated fair value of the underlying assets is determined as previously described in    Fixed Maturity Securities, Equity Securities, Trading and Other
Securities and Short-term Investments.  The estimated fair value of these embedded derivatives is included, along with their funds withheld hosts, in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets with changes in estimated fair value
recorded in net derivative gains (losses). Changes in the credit spreads on the underlying assets, interest rates and market volatility may result in significant fluctuations in the estimated fair value of these embedded derivatives that could
materially affect net income.   
         310

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The estimated fair value of the embedded equity and bond indexed
derivatives contained in certain funding agreements is determined using market standard swap valuation models and observable market inputs, including an adjustment for nonperformance risk. The estimated fair value of these embedded derivatives are
included, along with their funding agreements host, within PABs with changes in estimated fair value recorded in net derivative gains (losses). Changes in equity and bond indices, interest rates and the Company s credit standing may result in
significant fluctuations in the estimated fair value of these embedded derivatives that could materially affect net income.   
   Separate Account Assets       Separate account assets are carried at estimated fair value and reported as a summarized total on the consolidated balance sheets. The estimated fair value of separate account assets is based on the
estimated fair value of the underlying assets. Assets within the Company s separate accounts include: mutual funds, fixed maturity securities, equity securities, mortgage loans, derivatives, hedge funds, other limited partnership interests,
short-term investments and cash and cash equivalents. See    Valuation Techniques and Inputs by Level Within the Three-Level Fair Value Hierarchy by Major Classes of Assets and Liabilities  below for a discussion of the methods
and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of these financial instruments.       Long-term Debt of CSEs    
  The Company has elected the FVO for the long-term debt of CSEs. See    Valuation Techniques and Inputs by
Level Within the Three-Level Fair Value Hierarchy by Major Classes of Assets and Liabilities  below for a discussion of the methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of these financial instruments.   
   Liability Related to Securitized Reverse Residential Mortgage Loans    
  The Company has elected the FVO for the liability related to securitized reverse residential mortgage loans. See
   Valuation Techniques and Inputs by Level Within the Three-Level Fair Value Hierarchy by Major Classes of Assets and Liabilities  below for a discussion of the methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of this
financial instrument.       Trading Liabilities    
  Trading liabilities are recorded at estimated fair value with subsequent changes in estimated fair value recognized in
net investment income. The estimated fair value of trading liabilities is determined on a basis consistent with the methodologies described in    Fixed Maturity Securities, Equity Securities, Trading and Other Securities and
Short-term Investments.         Valuation Techniques and Inputs by Level Within the
Three-Level Fair Value Hierarchy by Major Classes of Assets and Liabilities        A description of the
significant valuation techniques and inputs to the determination of estimated fair value for the more significant asset and liability classes measured at fair value on a recurring basis is as follows:   
  The Company determines the estimated fair value of its investments using primarily the market approach and the income
approach. The use of quoted prices for identical assets and matrix pricing or other similar techniques are examples of market approaches, while the use of discounted cash flow methodologies is an example of the income approach. The Company attempts
to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs in selecting whether the market or income approach is used.   
         311

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   While certain investments have been classified as Level 1 from the
use of unadjusted quoted prices for identical investments supported by high volumes of trading activity and narrow bid/ask spreads, most investments have been classified as Level 2 because the significant inputs used to measure the fair value
on a recurring basis of the same or similar investment are market observable or can be corroborated using market observable information for the full term of the investment. Level 3 investments include those where estimated fair values are based
on significant unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and may reflect management s own assumptions about what factors market participants would use in pricing these investments.   
   Level 1 Measurements:        Fixed Maturity Securities, Equity Securities, Trading and Other Securities and Short-term Investments      These securities are comprised of U.S. Treasury and agency securities, foreign government securities, RMBS principally to-be-announced securities, exchange traded common stock, exchange traded
registered mutual fund interests included in trading and other securities and short-term money market securities, including U.S. Treasury bills. Valuation of these securities is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets that are
readily and regularly available. Contractholder-directed unit-linked investments reported within trading and other securities include certain registered mutual fund interests priced using daily NAV provided by the fund managers.   
   Derivative Assets and Derivative Liabilities    
  These assets and liabilities are comprised of exchange-traded derivatives, as well as interest rate forwards to sell
certain to-be-announced securities. Valuation of these assets and liabilities is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets that are readily and regularly available.       Separate Account Assets       These assets are comprised of
(i) securities that are similar in nature to the fixed maturity securities, equity securities and short-term investments referred to above; and (ii) certain exchange-traded derivatives, including financial futures and owned options.
Valuation of these assets is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets that are readily and regularly available.   
   Level 2 Measurements:        Fixed Maturity Securities, Equity Securities, Trading and Other Securities and Short-term Investments       This level includes fixed maturity securities and equity securities priced principally by independent pricing services using observable inputs. Trading and other securities and short-term investments
within this level are of a similar nature and class to the Level 2 securities described below. Contractholder-directed unit-linked investments reported within trading and other securities include certain mutual fund interests without readily
determinable fair values given prices are not published publicly. Valuation of these mutual funds is based upon quoted prices or reported NAV provided by the fund managers, which were based on observable inputs.   
   U.S. corporate and foreign corporate securities .  These securities are principally valued using the
market and income approaches. Valuation is based primarily on quoted prices in markets that are not active, or using matrix pricing or other similar techniques that use standard market observable inputs such as benchmark yields, spreads off
benchmark yields, new issuances, issuer rating, duration, and trades of identical or comparable securities. Investment grade privately placed securities are valued using discounted cash flow methodologies using standard market observable inputs, and
inputs derived from, or corroborated by, market observable data including market yield curve, duration, call provisions, observable prices and spreads for   
         312

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
similar publicly traded or privately traded issues that incorporate the credit quality and industry sector of the issuer. This level also includes certain below investment grade privately placed
fixed maturity securities priced by independent pricing services that use observable inputs.       Structured
securities comprised of RMBS, CMBS and ABS .  These securities are principally valued using the market approach. Valuation is based primarily on matrix pricing or other similar techniques using standard market inputs including spreads
for actively traded securities, spreads off benchmark yields, expected prepayment speeds and volumes, current and forecasted loss severity, rating, weighted average coupon, weighted average maturity, average delinquency rates, geographic region,
debt-service coverage ratios and issuance-specific information including, but not limited to: collateral type, payment terms of the underlying assets, payment priority within the tranche, structure of the security, deal performance and vintage of
loans.       U.S. Treasury and agency securities .  These securities are principally valued
using the market approach. Valuation is based primarily on quoted prices in markets that are not active, or using matrix pricing or other similar techniques using standard market observable inputs such as benchmark U.S. Treasury yield curve,
the spread off the U.S. Treasury curve for the identical security and comparable securities that are actively traded.       Foreign government and state and political subdivision securities .  These securities are principally valued using the market approach. Valuation is based primarily on matrix pricing or
other similar techniques using standard market observable inputs including benchmark U.S. Treasury or other yields, issuer ratings, broker-dealer quotes, issuer spreads and reported trades of similar securities, including those within the same
sub-sector or with a similar maturity or credit rating.       Common and non-redeemable preferred
stock .  These securities are principally valued using the market approach where market quotes are available but are not considered actively traded. Valuation is based principally on observable inputs including quoted prices in markets
that are not considered active.       Commercial Mortgage Loans Held by CSEs    
  These commercial mortgage loans are principally valued using the market approach. The principal market for these
commercial loan portfolios is the securitization market. The Company uses the quoted securitization market price of the obligations of the CSEs to determine the estimated fair value of these commercial loan portfolios. These market prices are
determined principally by independent pricing services using observable inputs.       Residential Mortgage Loans Held-For-Sale
      Residential mortgage loans held-for-sale are principally valued using the market approach. Valuation is
based primarily on readily available observable pricing for securities backed by similar loans. The unobservable adjustments to such prices are insignificant.       Securitized Reverse Residential Mortgage Loans    
  Securitized reverse residential mortgage loans are principally valued using the market approach. Valuation is based
primarily on readily available observable pricing for securities backed by similar fixed-rate loans. The unobservable adjustments to such prices are not significant.       Derivative Assets and Derivative Liabilities       This level
includes all types of derivative instruments utilized by the Company with the exception of exchange-traded derivatives and interest rate forwards to sell certain to-be-announced securities included within Level 1 and those derivative
instruments with unobservable inputs as described in Level 3. These derivatives are principally valued using an income approach.   
         313

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Interest rate contracts.    
  Non-option-based   Valuations are based on present value techniques, which utilize significant
inputs that may include the swap yield curve, LIBOR basis curves and repurchase rates.   
  Option-based   Valuations are based on option pricing models, which utilize significant inputs
that may include the swap yield curve, LIBOR basis curves and interest rate volatility.       Foreign currency contracts.
      Non-option-based   Valuations are based on present value techniques, which
utilize significant inputs that may include the swap yield curve, LIBOR basis curves, currency spot rates and cross currency basis curves.      Option-based   Valuations are based on option pricing models, which utilize significant inputs that may include the swap yield curve, LIBOR basis curves, currency spot rates, cross currency
basis curves and currency volatility.       Credit contracts.    
  Non-option-based   Valuations are based on present value techniques, which utilize significant
inputs that may include the swap yield curve, credit curves and recovery rates.       Equity market contracts.    
  Non-option-based   Valuations are based on present value techniques, which utilize significant
inputs that may include the swap yield curve, spot equity index levels and dividend yield curves.      Option-based   Valuations are based on option pricing models, which utilize significant inputs that may include the swap yield curve, spot equity index levels, dividend yield curves and equity
volatility.       Embedded Derivatives Contained in Certain Funding Agreements    
  These derivatives are principally valued using an income approach. Valuations are based on present value techniques,
which utilize significant inputs that may include the swap yield curve and the spot equity and bond index level.       Separate
Account Assets      These assets are comprised of investments that are similar in nature to the fixed maturity
securities, equity securities, short-term investments and derivative assets referred to above. Also included are certain mutual funds and hedge funds without readily determinable fair values given prices are not published publicly. Valuation of the
mutual funds and hedge funds is based upon quoted prices or reported NAV provided by the fund managers.       Long-term Debt of
CSEs      The estimated fair value of the long-term debt of the Company s CSEs is based on quoted prices
when traded as assets in active markets or, if not available, based on market standard valuation methodologies, consistent with the Company s methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of comparable fixed maturity securities.
      Liability Related to Securitized Reverse Residential Mortgage Loans    
  The estimated fair value of the liability related to securitized reverse residential mortgage loans, is based on quoted
prices when traded as assets in active markets or, if not available, based on market standard valuation methodologies, consistent with the Company s methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of comparable financial instruments.
  
         314

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Level 3 Measurements:    
  In general, investments classified within Level 3 use many of the same valuation techniques and inputs as described
in Level 2 Measurements. However, if key inputs are unobservable, or if the investments are less liquid and there is very limited trading activity, the investments are generally classified as Level 3. The use of independent non-binding
broker quotations to value investments generally indicates there is a lack of liquidity or a lack of transparency in the process to develop the valuation estimates generally causing these investments to be classified in Level 3.   
   Fixed Maturity Securities, Equity Securities, Trading and Other Securities and Short-term Investments    
  This level includes fixed maturity securities and equity securities priced principally by independent broker quotations
or market standard valuation methodologies using inputs that are not market observable or cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. Trading and other securities and short-term investments within this level are of
a similar nature and class to the Level 3 securities described below; accordingly, the valuation techniques and significant market standard observable inputs used in their valuation are also similar to those described below.   
   U.S. corporate and foreign corporate securities .  These securities, including financial services
industry hybrid securities classified within fixed maturity securities, are principally valued using the market and income approaches. Valuations are based primarily on matrix pricing or other similar techniques that utilize unobservable inputs or
cannot be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data, including illiquidity premiums and spread adjustments to reflect industry trends or specific credit-related issues. Valuations may be based on independent non-binding
broker quotations. Generally, below investment grade privately placed or distressed securities included in this level are valued using discounted cash flow methodologies which rely upon significant, unobservable inputs and inputs that cannot be
derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data.       Structured securities comprised of
RMBS, CMBS and ABS .  These securities are principally valued using the market approach. Valuation is based primarily on matrix pricing or other similar techniques that utilize inputs that are unobservable or cannot be derived
principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data, or are based on independent non-binding broker quotations. Below investment grade securities and RMBS supported by sub-prime mortgage loans included in this level are valued based on
inputs including quoted prices for identical or similar securities that are less liquid and based on lower levels of trading activity than securities classified in Level 2, and certain of these securities are valued based on independent
non-binding broker quotations.       Foreign government and state and political subdivision
securities .  These securities are principally valued using the market approach. Valuation is based primarily on matrix pricing or other similar techniques, however these securities are less liquid and certain of the inputs are based on
very limited trading activity.       Common and non-redeemable preferred stock .  These securities,
including privately held securities and financial services industry hybrid securities classified within equity securities, are principally valued using the market and income approaches. Valuations are based primarily on matrix pricing or other
similar techniques using inputs such as comparable credit rating and issuance structure. Equity securities valuations determined with discounted cash flow methodologies use inputs such as earnings multiples based on comparable public companies, and
industry-specific non-earnings based multiples. Certain of these securities are valued based on independent non-binding broker quotations.   
         315

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Residential Mortgage Loans Held-For-Sale    
  Residential mortgage loans held-for-sale for which pricing for securities backed by similar loans is not observable, the
estimated fair value is determined using unobservable independent broker quotations or valuation models using significant unobservable inputs.       Securitized Reverse Residential Mortgage Loans    
  Securitized reverse residential mortgage loans for which pricing for securities backed by similar adjustable-rate loans
is not observable, the estimated fair value is determined using unobservable independent broker quotations or valuation models using significant unobservable inputs.       MSRs       MSRs, which are valued using an income approach, are
carried at estimated fair value and have multiple significant unobservable inputs including assumptions regarding estimates of discount rates, loan prepayments and servicing costs. Sales of MSRs tend to occur in private transactions where the
precise terms and conditions of the sales are typically not readily available and observable market valuations are limited. As such, the Company relies primarily on a discounted cash flow model to estimate the fair value of the MSRs. The model
requires inputs such as type of loan (fixed vs. variable and agency vs. other), age of loan, loan interest rates and current market interest rates that are generally observable. The model also requires the use of unobservable inputs including
assumptions regarding estimates of discount rates, loan prepayments and servicing costs.       Derivative Assets and Derivative
Liabilities       These derivatives are principally valued using an income approach. Valuations of
non-option-based derivatives utilize present value techniques, whereas valuations of option-based derivatives utilize option pricing models. These valuation methodologies generally use the same inputs as described in the corresponding sections above
for Level 2 measurements of derivatives. However, these derivatives result in Level 3 classification because one or more of the significant inputs are not observable in the market or cannot be derived principally from, or corroborated by,
observable market data.       Interest rate contracts.    
  Non-option-based   Significant unobservable inputs may include pull through rates on interest
rate lock commitments and the extrapolation beyond observable limits of the swap yield curve and LIBOR basis curves.      Option-based   Significant unobservable inputs may include the extrapolation beyond observable limits of the swap yield curve, LIBOR basis curves and interest rate volatility.   
   Foreign currency contracts.    
  Non-option-based   Significant unobservable inputs may include the extrapolation beyond
observable limits of the swap yield curve, LIBOR basis curves and cross currency basis curves. Certain of these derivatives are valued based on independent non-binding broker quotations.   
  Option-based   Significant unobservable inputs may include currency correlation and the
extrapolation beyond observable limits of the swap yield curve, LIBOR basis curves, cross currency basis curves and currency volatility.   
         316

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Credit contracts.    
  Non-option-based   Significant unobservable inputs may include credit spreads, repurchase
rates, and the extrapolation beyond observable limits of the swap yield curve and credit curves. Certain of these derivatives are valued based on independent non-binding broker quotations.   
   Equity market contracts.       Non-option-based   Significant unobservable inputs may include the extrapolation beyond observable limits of dividend yield curves.   
  Option-based   Significant unobservable inputs may include the extrapolation beyond observable
limits of dividend yield curves, equity volatility and unobservable correlations between model inputs. Certain of these derivatives are valued based on independent non-binding broker quotations.   
   Direct and Assumed Guaranteed Minimum Benefits    
  These embedded derivatives are principally valued using an income approach. Valuations are based on option pricing
techniques, which utilize significant inputs that may include swap yield curve, currency exchange rates and implied volatilities. These embedded derivatives result in Level 3 classification because one or more of the significant inputs are not
observable in the market or cannot be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data. Significant unobservable inputs generally include: the extrapolation beyond observable limits of the swap yield curve and implied
volatilities, actuarial assumptions for policyholder behavior and mortality and the potential variability in policyholder behavior and mortality, nonperformance risk and cost of capital for purposes of calculating the risk margin.   
   Reinsurance Ceded on Certain Guaranteed Minimum Benefits    
  These embedded derivatives are principally valued using an income approach. The valuation techniques and significant
market standard unobservable inputs used in their valuation are similar to those previously described under  Direct and Assumed Guaranteed Minimum Benefits  and also include counterparty credit spreads.   
   Embedded Derivatives Within Funds Withheld Related to Certain Ceded Reinsurance    
  These embedded derivatives are principally valued using an income approach. Valuations are based on present value
techniques, which utilize significant inputs that may include the swap yield curve and the fair value of assets within the reference portfolio. These embedded derivatives result in Level 3 classification because one or more of the significant
inputs are not observable in the market or cannot be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data. Significant unobservable inputs generally include: the fair value of certain assets within the reference portfolio which are
not observable in the market and cannot be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data.       Separate
Account Assets      These assets are comprised of investments that are similar in nature to the fixed maturity
securities, equity securities and derivative assets referred to above. Separate account assets within this level also include mortgage loans and other limited partnership interests. The estimated fair value of mortgage loans is determined by
discounting expected future cash flows, using current interest rates for similar loans with similar credit risk. Other limited partnership interests are valued giving consideration to the value of the underlying holdings of the partnerships and by
applying a premium or discount, if appropriate, for factors such as liquidity, bid/ask spreads, the performance record of the fund manager or other relevant variables which may impact the exit value of the particular partnership interest.
  
         317

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Long-term Debt of CSEs    
  The estimated fair value of the long-term debt of the Company s CSEs are priced principally through independent
broker quotations or market standard valuation methodologies using inputs that are not market observable or cannot be derived from or corroborated by observable market data.       Liability Related to Securitized Reverse Residential Mortgage Loans       The estimated fair value of the liability related to securitized reverse residential mortgage loans is based on quoted prices when traded as assets in less active markets or, if not available, based on
market standard valuation methodologies using unobservable inputs, consistent with the Company s methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of comparable financial instruments.   
   Transfers between Levels 1 and 2:       During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, transfers between Levels 1 and 2 were not significant.       Transfers into or out of Level 3:      Overall, transfers into
and/or out of Level 3 are attributable to a change in the observability of inputs. Assets and liabilities are transferred into Level 3 when a significant input cannot be corroborated with market observable data. This occurs when market
activity decreases significantly and underlying inputs cannot be observed, current prices are not available, and/or when there are significant variances in quoted prices, thereby affecting transparency. Assets and liabilities are transferred out of
Level 3 when circumstances change such that a significant input can be corroborated with market observable data. This may be due to a significant increase in market activity, a specific event, or one or more significant input(s) becoming
observable. Transfers into and/or out of any level are assumed to occur at the beginning of the period. Significant transfers into and/or out of Level 3 assets and liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 are
summarized below.      Transfers into Level 3 were due primarily to a lack of trading activity, decreased
liquidity and credit ratings downgrades (e.g., from investment grade to below investment grade), which have resulted in decreased transparency of valuations and an increased use of broker quotations and unobservable inputs to determine estimated
fair value.      During the year ended December 31, 2011, transfers into Level 3 for fixed maturity
securities of $599 million and for separate account assets of $19 million, were principally comprised of certain U.S. and foreign corporate securities and foreign government securities. During the year ended December 31, 2010,
transfers into Level 3 for fixed maturity securities of $1.7 billion and for separate account assets of $46 million were principally comprised of certain U.S. and foreign corporate securities and CMBS.   
  Transfers out of Level 3 resulted primarily from increased transparency of both new issuances that subsequent to
issuance and establishment of trading activity, became priced by independent pricing services and existing issuances that, over time, the Company was able to obtain pricing from, or corroborate pricing received from, independent pricing services
with observable inputs, or increases in market activity and upgraded credit ratings. With respect to derivatives, transfers out of Level 3 resulted primarily from increased transparency related to the observable portion of the equity volatility
surface.      During the year ended December 31, 2011, transfers out of Level 3 for fixed maturity
securities of $6.7 billion and for separate account assets of $257 million, were principally comprised of certain ABS, foreign government securities, U.S. and foreign corporate securities, RMBS and CMBS. During the year ended December 31,
2011,   
         318

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
transfers out of Level 3 for derivatives of $75 million were principally comprised of equity options. During the year ended December 31, 2010, transfers out of Level 3 for
fixed maturity securities of $1.7 billion and for separate account assets of $234 million were principally comprised of certain U.S. and foreign corporate securities, RMBS and ABS.   
  The following tables summarize the change of all assets and (liabilities) measured at estimated fair value on a recurring
basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3), including realized and unrealized gains (losses) of all assets and (liabilities) and realized and unrealized gains (losses) of all assets and (liabilities) still held at the end of the
respective time periods:       

319

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

320

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

321

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

322

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

323

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

324

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

325

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

326

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)  
    Amortization of premium/discount is included within net investment income. Impairments charged to earnings on securities and certain mortgage loans
are included within net investment gains (losses) while changes in estimated fair value of certain mortgage loans and MSRs are recorded in other revenues. Lapses associated with net embedded derivatives are included within net derivative gains
(losses).          

(2)  
    Interest and dividend accruals, as well as cash interest coupons and dividends received, are excluded from the rollforward.

(3)  
    The amount reported within purchases, sales, issuances and settlements is the purchase or issuance price and the sales or settlement proceeds based
upon the actual date purchased or issued and sold or settled, respectively. Items purchased/issued and sold/settled in the same period are excluded from the rollforward. For the year ended December 31, 2011, fees attributed to net embedded
derivatives are included within settlements. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, fees attributed to net embedded derivatives are included within purchases, sales, issuances and settlements. Purchases, sales, issuances and
settlements for the year ended December 31, 2010 include financial instruments acquired from ALICO as follows: $5.4 billion of fixed maturity securities, $68 million of equity securities, $582 million of trading and other securities, $216
million of short-term investments, ($10) million of net derivatives, $244 million of separate account assets and ($116) million of net embedded derivatives.      

(4)  
    Total gains and losses (in earnings and other comprehensive income (loss)) are calculated assuming transfers into and/or out of Level 3 occurred at
the beginning of the period. Items transferred into and/or out of Level 3 in the same period are excluded from the rollforward.      
         327

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(5)  
    The additions for purchases, originations and issuances and the reductions for loan payments, sales and settlements, affecting MSRs were $173
million and ($143) million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2011. The additions for purchases, originations and issuances and the reductions for loan payments, sales and settlements, affecting MSRs were $330 million and ($179)
million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2010. The additions for purchases, originations and issuances and the reductions for loan payments, sales and settlements, affecting MSRs were $628 million and ($113) million, respectively,
for the year ended December 31, 2009.          

(7)  
    Freestanding derivative assets and liabilities are presented net for purposes of the rollforward.      

(8)  
    Embedded derivative assets and liabilities are presented net for purposes of the rollforward.      

(9)  
    Investment performance related to separate account assets is fully offset by corresponding amounts credited to contractholders within separate
account liabilities. Therefore, such changes in estimated fair value are not recorded in net income. For the purpose of this disclosure, these changes are presented within net investment gains (losses).      

(10)  
    The long-term debt of the CSEs at January 1, 2010 is reported within the purchases, sales, issuances and settlements caption of the
rollforward.      
     Fair Value Option         Residential Mortgage Loans Held-For-Sale       The following
table presents residential mortgage loans held-for-sale carried under the FVO at:           

328

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Residential mortgage loans held-for-sale accounted for under the FVO are
initially measured at estimated fair value. Interest income on residential mortgage loans held-for-sale is recorded based on the stated rate of the loan and is recorded in net investment income. Gains and losses from initial measurement, subsequent
changes in estimated fair value and gains or losses on sales are recognized in other revenues. Such changes in estimated fair value for these loans were due to the following:   

Securitized Reverse Residential Mortgage Loans    
  The following table presents securitized reverse residential mortgage loans carried under the FVO at:   

December 31, 2011   

(In millions)   

Unpaid principal balance   
      
  $  
  6,914  

Excess of estimated fair value over unpaid principal balance   

738  

Carrying value at estimated fair value   
      
  $  
  7,652  

Loans in non-accrual status   
      
  $  

Loans more than 90 days past due   
      
  $  
  59  

Loans in non-accrual status or more than 90 days past due, or both   difference between aggregate estimated fair
value and unpaid principal balance   
      
  $  

Securitized reverse residential mortgage loans accounted for under the FVO are initially measured at
estimated fair value. Gains and losses from initial measurement and subsequent changes in estimated fair value are recognized in other revenues.      The following table presents the liability related to securitized reverse residential mortgage loans carried under the FVO at:   

The liability related to securitized reverse residential mortgage loans accounted for under the FVO is
initially measured at estimated fair value. Gains and losses from initial measurement and subsequent changes in estimated fair value are recognized in other revenues.   
         329

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Assets and Liabilities Held by CSEs    
  The Company has elected the FVO for the following assets and liabilities held by CSEs: commercial mortgage loans,
securities and long-term debt. Information on the estimated fair value of the securities classified as trading and other securities is presented in Note 3. The following table presents these commercial mortgage loans carried under the FVO at:

The following table presents the long-term debt carried under the FVO related to both the commercial
mortgage loans and securities classified as trading and other securities at:           

Interest income on both commercial mortgage loans and securities classified as trading and other
securities held by CSEs is recorded in net investment income. Interest expense on long-term debt of CSEs is recorded in other expenses. Gains and losses from initial measurement, subsequent changes in estimated fair value and gains or losses on
sales of both the commercial mortgage loans and long-term debt are recognized in net investment gains (losses). See Note 3.   
    Non-Recurring Fair Value Measurements     
  Certain assets are measured at estimated fair value on a non-recurring basis and are not included in the tables presented
above. The amounts below relate to certain investments measured at estimated fair value during the period and still held at the reporting dates.       

330

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)  
     Mortgage loans    The impaired mortgage loans presented above were written down to their estimated fair values at the date the
impairments were recognized and are reported as losses above. Subsequent improvements in estimated fair value on previously impaired loans recorded through a reduction in the previously established valuation allowance are reported as gains above.
Estimated fair values for impaired mortgage loans are based on observable market prices or, if the loans are in foreclosure or are otherwise determined to be collateral dependent, on the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral, or the
present value of the expected future cash flows. Impairments to estimated fair value and decreases in previous impairments from subsequent improvements in estimated fair value represent non-recurring fair value measurements that have been
categorized as Level 3 due to the lack of price transparency inherent in the limited markets for such mortgage loans.          

(2)  
     Other limited partnership interests    The impaired investments presented above were accounted for using the cost method.
Impairments on these cost method investments were recognized at estimated fair value determined from information provided in the financial statements of the underlying entities in the period in which the impairment was incurred. These impairments to
estimated fair value represent non-recurring fair value measurements that have been classified as Level 3 due to the limited activity and price transparency inherent in the market for such investments. This category includes several private
equity and debt funds that typically invest primarily in a diversified pool of investments using certain investment strategies including domestic and international leveraged buyout funds; power, energy, timber and infrastructure development funds;
venture capital funds; and below investment grade debt and mezzanine debt funds. The estimated fair values of these investments have been determined using the NAV of the Company s ownership interest in the partners  capital. Distributions
from these investments will be generated from investment gains, from operating income from the underlying investments of the funds and from liquidation of the underlying assets of the funds. It is estimated that the underlying assets of the funds
will be liquidated over the next two to 10 years. Unfunded commitments for these investments were $4 million and $34 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.      

(3)  
     Real estate joint ventures    The impaired investments presented above were accounted for using the cost method. Impairments on
these cost method investments were recognized at estimated fair value determined from information provided in the financial statements of the underlying entities in the period in which the impairment was incurred. These impairments to estimated fair
value represent non-recurring fair value measurements that have been classified as Level 3 due to the limited activity and price transparency inherent in the market for such investments. This category includes several real estate funds that
typically invest primarily in commercial real estate. The estimated fair values of these investments have been determined using the NAV of the Company s ownership interest in the partners  capital. Distributions from these investments will
be generated from investment gains, from operating income from the underlying investments of the funds and from liquidation of the underlying assets of the funds. It is estimated that the underlying assets of the funds will be liquidated over the
next two to 10 years. There were no unfunded commitments for these investments at December 31, 2011. Unfunded commitments for these investments were $6 million at December 31, 2010.      

(4)  
     Goodwill    As discussed in Notes 2 and 7, the Company recorded an impairment of goodwill associated with MetLife Bank. This impairment
has been categorized as Level 3 due to the significant unobservable inputs used in the determination of the associated estimated fair value.      

         331

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Fair Value of Financial Instruments     
  Amounts related to the Company s financial instruments that were not measured at fair value on a recurring basis,
were as follows:           

(1)  
    Mortgage loans held-for-investment as presented in the table above differ from the amounts presented in the consolidated balance sheets because this
table does not include commercial mortgage loans held by CSEs, which are accounted for under the FVO.      
         332

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Mortgage loans held-for-sale as presented in the table
above differ from the amounts presented in the consolidated balance sheets because this table only includes mortgage loans that were previously designated as held-for-investment but now are designated as held-for-sale and stated at lower of
amortized cost or estimated fair value.       

(2)  
    Carrying values presented herein differ from those presented in the consolidated balance sheets because certain items within the respective
financial statement caption are not considered financial instruments. Financial statement captions excluded from the table above are not considered financial instruments.      

(3)  
    Short-term investments as presented in the table above differ from the amounts presented in the consolidated balance sheets because this table does
not include short-term investments that meet the definition of a security, which are measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis.          

(4)  
    Long-term debt as presented in the table above does not include long-term debt of CSEs, which is accounted for under the FVO.

(5)  
    Other liabilities as presented in the table above differ from the amounts presented in the consolidated balance sheets because certain items within
other liabilities are not considered financial instruments and this table does not include the liability related to securitized reverse residential mortgage loans, which are accounted for under the FVO.      

(6)  
    Commitments are off-balance sheet obligations. Negative estimated fair values represent off-balance sheet liabilities.      
   The methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of financial instruments are summarized as
follows:      The assets and liabilities measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis include: fixed
maturity securities, equity securities, trading and other securities, certain short-term investments, mortgage loans held by CSEs, mortgage loans held-for-sale accounted for under the FVO, MSRs, derivative assets and liabilities, net embedded
derivatives within asset and liability host contracts, separate account assets, long-term debt of CSEs and trading liabilities. These assets and liabilities are described in the section    Recurring Fair Value Measurements  and,
therefore, are excluded from the table above. The estimated fair value for these financial instruments approximates carrying value.       Mortgage Loans       These mortgage loans are principally
comprised of commercial and agricultural mortgage loans, which are originated for investment purposes and are primarily carried at amortized cost. Residential mortgage loans are generally purchased from third parties for investment purposes and are
principally carried at amortized cost. Mortgage loans originally held-for-investment, but subsequently held-for-sale are carried at the lower of cost or estimated fair value, or for collateral dependent loans, estimated fair value less expected
disposition costs. The estimated fair values of these mortgage loans are determined as follows:   
   Mortgage loans held-for-investment.    For commercial and agricultural mortgage loans
held-for-investment and carried at amortized cost, estimated fair value was primarily determined by estimating expected future cash flows and discounting them using current interest rates for similar mortgage loans with similar credit risk. For
residential mortgage loans held-for-investment and carried at amortized cost, estimated fair value is primarily determined from observable pricing for similar loans.   
         333

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Mortgage loans held-for-sale.    Certain
mortgage loans previously classified as held-for-investment have been designated as held-for-sale. For these mortgage loans, estimated fair value is determined using independent broker quotations or values provided by independent valuation
specialists, or, when the mortgage loan is in foreclosure or otherwise determined to be collateral dependent, the fair value of the underlying collateral is estimated using internal models.   
   Policy Loans       For policy loans with fixed interest rates, estimated fair values are determined using a discounted cash flow model applied to groups of similar policy loans determined by the nature of the underlying
insurance liabilities. Cash flow estimates are developed by applying a weighted-average interest rate to the outstanding principal balance of the respective group of policy loans and an estimated average maturity determined through experience
studies of the past performance of policyholder repayment behavior for similar loans. These cash flows are discounted using current risk-free interest rates with no adjustment for borrower credit risk as these loans are fully collateralized by the
cash surrender value of the underlying insurance policy. The estimated fair value for policy loans with variable interest rates approximates carrying value due to the absence of borrower credit risk and the short time period between interest rate
resets, which presents minimal risk of a material change in estimated fair value due to changes in market interest rates.   
   Real Estate Joint Ventures and Other Limited Partnership Interests    
  Real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests included in the preceding table consist of those
investments accounted for using the cost method. The remaining carrying value recognized in the consolidated balance sheets represents investments in real estate carried at cost less accumulated depreciation, or real estate joint ventures and other
limited partnership interests accounted for using the equity method, which do not meet the definition of financial instruments for which fair value is required to be disclosed.   
  The estimated fair values for real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests accounted for under the
cost method are generally based on the Company s share of the NAV as provided in the financial statements of the investees. In certain circumstances, management may adjust the NAV by a premium or discount when it has sufficient evidence to
support applying such adjustments.       Short-term Investments    
  Certain short-term investments do not qualify as securities and are recognized at amortized cost in the consolidated
balance sheets. For these instruments, the Company believes that there is minimal risk of material changes in interest rates or credit of the issuer such that estimated fair value approximates carrying value. In light of recent market conditions,
short-term investments have been monitored to ensure there is sufficient demand and maintenance of issuer credit quality and the Company has determined additional adjustment is not required.   
   Other Invested Assets       Other invested assets within the preceding table are principally comprised of funds withheld, various interest-bearing assets held in foreign subsidiaries and certain amounts due under contractual
indemnifications.      For funds withheld and the various interest-bearing assets held in foreign subsidiaries,
the Company evaluates the specific facts and circumstances of each instrument to determine the appropriate estimated fair values. These estimated fair values were not materially different from the recognized carrying values.   
         334

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Cash and Cash Equivalents    
  Due to the short-term maturities of cash and cash equivalents, the Company believes there is minimal risk of material
changes in interest rates or credit of the issuer such that estimated fair value generally approximates carrying value. In light of recent market conditions, cash and cash equivalent instruments have been monitored to ensure there is sufficient
demand and maintenance of issuer credit quality, or sufficient solvency in the case of depository institutions, and the Company has determined additional adjustment is not required.   
   Accrued Investment Income       Due to the short term until settlement of accrued investment income, the Company believes there is minimal risk of material changes in interest rates or credit of the issuer such that estimated fair value
approximates carrying value. In light of recent market conditions, the Company has monitored the credit quality of the issuers and has determined additional adjustment is not required.   
   Premiums, Reinsurance and Other Receivables    
  Premiums, reinsurance and other receivables in the preceding table are principally comprised of certain amounts
recoverable under reinsurance agreements, amounts on deposit with financial institutions to facilitate daily settlements related to certain derivative positions and amounts receivable for securities sold but not yet settled.   
  Premiums receivable and those amounts recoverable under reinsurance agreements determined to transfer significant risk
are not financial instruments subject to disclosure and thus have been excluded from the amounts presented in the preceding table. Amounts recoverable under ceded reinsurance agreements, which the Company has determined do not transfer significant
risk such that they are accounted for using the deposit method of accounting, have been included in the preceding table. The estimated fair value is determined as the present value of expected future cash flows, which were discounted using an
interest rate determined to reflect the appropriate credit standing of the assuming counterparty.      The amounts
on deposit for derivative settlements essentially represent the equivalent of demand deposit balances and amounts due for securities sold are generally received over short periods such that the estimated fair value approximates carrying value. In
light of recent market conditions, the Company has monitored the solvency position of the financial institutions and has determined additional adjustments are not required.       Other Assets       Other assets in the preceding table are
primarily composed of a receivable for cash paid to an unaffiliated financial institution under the MetLife Reinsurance Company of Charleston ( MRC ) collateral financing arrangement as described in Note 12. The estimated fair value
of the receivable for the cash paid to the unaffiliated financial institution under the MRC collateral financing arrangement is determined by discounting the expected future cash flows using a discount rate that reflects the credit rating of the
unaffiliated financial institution. The amounts excluded from the preceding table are not considered financial instruments subject to disclosure.       PABs       PABs in the table above include investment
contracts. Embedded derivatives on investment contracts and certain variable annuity guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives are included in this caption in the consolidated financial statements but excluded from this caption in the table
above as they are separately presented in    Recurring Fair Value Measurements.  The remaining difference between the amounts reflected   
         335

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
as PABs in the preceding table and those recognized in the consolidated balance sheets represents those amounts due under contracts that satisfy the definition of insurance contracts and are not
considered financial instruments.      The investment contracts primarily include certain funding agreements,
fixed deferred annuities, modified guaranteed annuities, fixed term payout annuities and total control accounts. The fair values for these investment contracts are estimated by discounting best estimate future cash flows using current market
risk-free interest rates and adding a spread to reflect the nonperformance risk in the liability.       Payables for Collateral
Under Securities Loaned and Other Transactions       The estimated fair value for payables for collateral under
securities loaned and other transactions approximates carrying value. The related agreements to loan securities are short-term in nature such that the Company believes there is limited risk of a material change in market interest rates.
Additionally, because borrowers are cross-collateralized by the borrowed securities, the Company believes no additional consideration for changes in nonperformance risk are necessary.   
   Bank Deposits       Due to the frequency of interest rate resets on customer bank deposits held in money market accounts, the Company believes that there is minimal risk of a material change in interest rates such that the
estimated fair value approximates carrying value. For time deposits, estimated fair values are estimated by discounting the expected cash flows to maturity using discount rates based on the LIBOR/swap curve at the date of the valuation. The Company
has taken into consideration the sale price for the pending disposition of most of the depository business of MetLife Bank to determine the estimated fair value of bank deposits at December 31, 2011. See Note 2.   
   Short-term and Long-term Debt, Collateral Financing Arrangements and Junior Subordinated Debt Securities    
  The estimated fair value for short-term debt approximates carrying value due to the short-term nature of these
obligations. The determination of estimated fair values of collateral financing arrangements takes into account valuations obtained from the counterparties to the arrangements, as part of the collateral management process. The estimated fair values
of long-term debt and junior subordinated debt securities are generally determined by discounting expected future cash flows using market rates currently available for debt with similar remaining maturities and reflecting the credit risk of the
Company, including inputs when available, from actively traded debt of the Company or other companies with similar types of borrowing arrangements. Risk-adjusted discount rates applied to the expected future cash flows can vary significantly based
upon the specific terms of each individual arrangement, including, but not limited to: subordinated rights, contractual interest rates in relation to current market rates, the structuring of the arrangement, and the nature and observability of the
applicable valuation inputs. Use of different risk-adjusted discount rates could result in different estimated fair values.      The carrying value of long-term debt presented in the table above differs from the amounts presented in the consolidated balance sheets as it does not include capital leases which are not required to be
disclosed at estimated fair value.       Other Liabilities    
  Other liabilities included in the table above reflect those other liabilities that satisfy the definition of financial
instruments subject to disclosure. These items consist primarily of interest and dividends payable, amounts due for securities purchased but not yet settled, funds withheld amounts payable which are contractually withheld by the Company in
accordance with the terms of the reinsurance agreements and amounts payable under certain   
         336

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
assumed reinsurance agreements are recorded using the deposit method of accounting. The Company evaluates the specific terms, facts and circumstances of each instrument to determine the
appropriate estimated fair values, which are not materially different from the carrying values, with the exception of certain deposit type reinsurance payables. For these reinsurance payables, the estimated fair value is determined as the present
value of expected future cash flows, which are discounted using an interest rate determined to reflect the appropriate credit standing of the assuming counterparty.       Separate Account Liabilities       Separate account liabilities
included in the preceding table represent those balances due to policyholders under contracts that are classified as investment contracts. The remaining amounts presented in the consolidated balance sheets represent those contracts classified as
insurance contracts, which do not satisfy the definition of financial instruments.      Separate account
liabilities classified as investment contracts primarily represent variable annuities with no significant mortality risk to the Company such that the death benefit is equal to the account balance, funding agreements related to group life contracts
and certain contracts that provide for benefit funding.      Separate account liabilities are recognized in the
consolidated balance sheets at an equivalent value of the related separate account assets. Separate account assets, which equal net deposits, net investment income and realized and unrealized investment gains and losses, are fully offset by
corresponding amounts credited to the contractholders  liability which is reflected in separate account liabilities. Since separate account liabilities are fully funded by cash flows from the separate account assets which are recognized at
estimated fair value as described in the section    Recurring Fair Value Measurements,  the Company believes the value of those assets approximates the estimated fair value of the related separate account liabilities.   
   Mortgage Loan Commitments and Commitments to Fund Bank Credit Facilities, Bridge Loans and Private Corporate Bond Investments
      The estimated fair values for mortgage loan commitments that will be held for investment and commitments
to fund bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bonds that will be held for investment reflected in the above table represents the difference between the discounted expected future cash flows using interest rates that incorporate
current credit risk for similar instruments on the reporting date and the principal amounts of the commitments.       Assets and
Liabilities of Subsidiaries Held-For-Sale       The carrying values of the assets and liabilities of
subsidiaries held-for-sale reflect those assets and liabilities which were previously determined to be financial instruments and which were reflected in other financial statement captions in the comparable table above in previous periods but have
been reclassified to these captions to reflect the discontinued nature of the operations. The estimated fair value of the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries held-for-sale has been determined on a basis consistent with the assets and liabilities
as described herein.   
         337

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

    6.  Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired    
   Information regarding DAC and VOBA was as follows:   

See Note 2 for a description of acquisitions and dispositions.   
  The estimated future amortization expense allocated to other expenses for the next five years for VOBA is $1.3 billion in
2012, $1.1 billion in 2013, $917 million in 2014, $774 million in 2015 and $661 million in 2016.   
         338

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Amortization of DAC and VOBA is attributed to both investment gains and
losses and to other expenses for the amount of gross margins or profits originating from transactions other than investment gains and losses. Unrealized investment gains and losses represent the amount of DAC and VOBA that would have been amortized
if such gains and losses had been recognized.      Information regarding DAC and VOBA by segment was as follows:

7.  Goodwill    
   Goodwill is the excess of cost over the estimated fair value of net assets acquired. Information
regarding goodwill was as follows:           

339

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Information regarding allocated goodwill by segment and reporting unit
was as follows:       
 
   The table above does not include goodwill of $6.8 billion at December 31, 2010, associated
with ALICO. In the first quarter of 2011, the Company began reporting the results from its international operations in two separate segments to reflect a change in the manner in which the financial results are reviewed and evaluated by executive
management. Consequently, $5.2 billion and $1.8 billion of goodwill were allocated in 2011 to the reporting unit in the Japan segment and to reporting units in the Other International Regions segment, respectively, each net of the
associated foreign currency translations. See Note 2 for a description of acquisitions and dispositions.      As
of November 1, 2011, American Life s current and deferred income taxes were affected by measurement period adjustments, which resulted in a $39 million increase to the goodwill recorded as part of the Acquisition related to the Japan
segment. See Note 15.      During the third quarter of 2011, the Company began exploring the sale of MetLife
Bank s depository business. As a result, in September 2011, the Company performed a goodwill impairment test on MetLife Bank, which was a separate reporting unit within Corporate   Other. A comparison of the fair value of the reporting
unit, using a market multiple approach, to its carrying value indicated a potential for goodwill impairment. A further comparison of the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill with its carrying amount indicated that the entire
amount of goodwill associated with MetLife Bank was impaired. Consequently, the Company recorded a $65 million goodwill impairment charge that is reflected as a net investment loss for the year ended December 31, 2011.   
         340

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   In addition, the Company performed its annual goodwill impairment tests
of its other reporting units during the third quarter of 2011 based upon data at June 30, 2011 and concluded that the fair values of all reporting units were in excess of their carrying values and, therefore, goodwill was not impaired. Such
tests are described in more detail in Note 1.      Based on the adverse economic conditions in 2011, which
caused both equity markets and interest rates to decline, the Company assessed the need to update the annual impairment tests and identified only one reporting unit, Retirement Products, that warranted interim impairment testing. The results of the
testing indicated that goodwill for the Retirement Products reporting unit was not impaired.      Management
continues to evaluate current market conditions that may affect the estimated fair value of these reporting units to assess whether any goodwill impairment exists. Deteriorating or adverse market conditions for certain reporting units may have a
significant impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units and could result in future impairments of goodwill.   
    8.  Insurance    
     Insurance Liabilities     
  Insurance liabilities were as follows:       

341

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Value of Distribution Agreements and Customer Relationships Acquired
       Information regarding VODA and VOCRA, which are reported in other assets, was as follows:   

The estimated future amortization expense allocated to other expenses for the next five years for VODA
and VOCRA is $82 million in 2012, $89 million in 2013, $94 million in 2014, $92 million in 2015 and $84 million in 2016. See Note 2 for a description of acquisitions and dispositions.   
    Negative Value of Business Acquired     
  Information regarding negative VOBA, which is recorded in other policy-related balances, was as follows:   

The weighted average amortization period for negative VOBA was 6.0 years. The estimated future
amortization of credit to expenses recorded in other expenses for the next five years for negative VOBA is $627 million in 2012, $563 million in 2013, $477 million in 2014, $388 million in 2015 and $298 million in 2016.
  
         342

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Sales Inducements     
  Information regarding deferred sales inducements, which are reported in other assets, was as follows:   

Separate Accounts     
  Separate account assets and liabilities include two categories of account types: pass-through separate accounts totaling
$158.8 billion and $149.0 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, for which the policyholder assumes all investment risk, and separate accounts for which the Company contractually guarantees either a minimum return or account
value to the policyholder which totaled $44.2 billion and $34.1 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The latter category consisted primarily of funding agreements and participating close-out contracts. The average
interest rate credited on these contracts was 3.12% and 3.32% at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
  For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, there were no investment gains (losses) on transfers of assets
from the general account to the separate accounts.        Obligations Under Funding Agreements     
  The Company issues fixed and floating rate funding agreements, which are denominated in either U.S. dollars or
foreign currencies, to certain special purpose entities ( SPEs ) that have issued either debt securities or commercial paper for which payment of interest and principal is secured by such funding agreements. During the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company issued $39.9 billion, $34.1 billion and $28.6 billion, respectively, and repaid $41.6 billion, $30.9 billion and $32.0 billion, respectively, of such funding
agreements. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, funding agreements outstanding, which are included in PABs, were $25.5 billion and $27.2 billion, respectively.   
  Certain subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. are members of the Federal Home Loan Bank ( FHLB ). Holdings of FHLB
common stock by branch, included in equity securities, were as follows at:           

343

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Certain subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. have also entered into funding
agreements. The liability for funding agreements is included in PABs. Information related to the funding agreements was as follows:       

(1)  
    Represents funding agreements issued to the FHLB in exchange for cash and for which the FHLB has been granted either a blanket lien or a lien on
certain assets, including RMBS, to collateralize obligations under the funding agreements. The Company maintains control over these pledged assets, and may use, commingle, encumber or dispose of any portion of the collateral as long as there is no
event of default and the remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to satisfy the collateral maintenance level. Upon any event of default by the Company, the FHLB s recovery on the collateral is limited to the amount of the Company s
liability to the FHLB.          

(2)  
    Advances are collateralized by mortgage-backed securities. The amount of collateral presented is at estimated fair value.

(3)  
    Represents funding agreements issued to certain SPEs that have issued debt securities for which payment of interest and principal is secured by such
funding agreements, and such debt securities are also guaranteed as to payment of interest and principal by the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, a federally chartered instrumentality of the United States ( Farmer Mac ).

(4)  
    Secured by a pledge of certain eligible agricultural real estate mortgage loans. The amount of collateral presented is at carrying value.

344

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Liabilities for Unpaid Claims and Claim Expenses     
  Information regarding the liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses relating to property and casualty, group
accident and non-medical health policies and contracts, which are reported in future policy benefits and other policy-related balances, was as follows:       

During 2011, 2010 and 2009, as a result of changes in estimates of insured events in the respective
prior year, claims and claim adjustment expenses associated with prior years decreased by $199 million, $75 million and $152 million, respectively, due to a reduction in prior year automobile bodily injury and homeowners  severity and
improved loss ratio for non-medical health claim liabilities.        Guarantees     
  The Company issues annuity contracts which may include contractual guarantees to the contractholder for: (i) return
of no less than total deposits made to the contract less any partial withdrawals ( return of net deposits  and (ii) the highest contract value on a specified anniversary date minus any withdrawals following the contract anniversary,
or total deposits made to the contract less any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return ( anniversary contract value  or  minimum return ). The Company also issues annuity contracts that apply a lower rate of funds deposited if
the contractholder elects to surrender the contract for cash and a higher rate if the contractholder elects to annuitize ( two tier annuities ). These guarantees include benefits that are payable in the event of death, maturity or at
annuitization.      The Company also issues universal and variable life contracts where the Company contractually
guarantees to the contractholder a secondary guarantee or a guaranteed paid-up benefit.   
         345

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Information regarding the types of guarantees relating to annuity
contracts and universal and variable life contracts was as follows:           

(1)  
    The Company s annuity and life contracts with guarantees may offer more than one type of guarantee in each contract. Therefore, the amounts
listed above may not be mutually exclusive.          

(2)  
    The net amount at risk is based on the direct and assumed amount at risk (excluding ceded reinsurance).      

(3)  
    The net amount at risk for guarantees of amounts in the event of death is defined as the current GMDB in excess of the current account balance at
the balance sheet date.          

(4)  
    The net amount at risk for guarantees of amounts at annuitization is defined as the present value of the minimum guaranteed annuity payments
available to the contractholder determined in accordance with the terms of the contract in excess of the current account balance.          

(5)  
    The net amount at risk for two tier annuities is based on the excess of the upper tier, adjusted for a profit margin, less the lower tier.

346

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Information regarding the liabilities for guarantees (excluding base
policy liabilities) relating to annuity and universal and variable life contracts was as follows:           

347

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Account balances of contracts with insurance guarantees were invested in
separate account asset classes as follows at:           

9.  Reinsurance    
   The Company participates in reinsurance activities in order to limit losses, minimize exposure to
significant risks and provide additional capacity for future growth.      For its individual life insurance
products, the Company has historically reinsured the mortality risk primarily on an excess of retention basis or a quota share basis. The Company currently reinsures 90% of the mortality risk in excess of $1 million for most products and
reinsures up to 90% of the mortality risk for certain other products. In addition to reinsuring mortality risk as described above, the Company reinsures other risks, as well as specific coverages. Placement of reinsurance is done primarily on an
automatic basis and also on a facultative basis for risks with specified characteristics. On a case by case basis, the Company may retain up to $20 million per life and reinsure 100% of amounts in excess of the amount the Company retains. The
Company evaluates its reinsurance programs routinely and may increase or decrease its retention at any time.   
  For other policies within the Insurance Products segment, the Company generally retains most of the risk and only cedes
particular risks on certain client arrangements.      The Company s Retirement Products segment reinsures a
portion of the living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with its variable annuities. Under these reinsurance agreements, the Company pays a reinsurance premium generally based on fees associated with the guarantees collected from
policyholders, and receives reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account values, subject to certain limitations.      The Company s Corporate Benefit Funding segment periodically engages in reinsurance activities, as considered appropriate. The impact of these activities on the financial results of this segment has
not been significant.      The Company s Auto   Home segment purchases reinsurance to manage its
exposure to large losses (primarily catastrophe losses) and to protect statutory surplus. The Company cedes to reinsurers a portion of losses and premiums based upon the exposure of the policies subject to reinsurance. To manage exposure to large
property and casualty losses, the Company utilizes property catastrophe, casualty and property per risk excess of loss agreements.      For life insurance products within International, the Company reinsures, depending on the product, risks above the corporate retention limit of up to $5 million to external reinsurers on a yearly
renewable term basis. The Company s international businesses may also reinsure certain risks with external reinsurers depending upon the nature of the risk and local regulatory requirements. For selected large corporate clients, International
reinsures   
         348

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
group employee benefits or credit insurance business with various client-affiliated reinsurance companies, covering policies issued to the employees or customers of the clients. Additionally, the
Company cedes and assumes risk with other insurance companies when either company requires a business partner with the appropriate local licensing to issue certain types of policies in certain countries. In these cases, the assuming company
typically underwrites the risks, develops the products and assumes most or all of the risk. International also has reinsurance agreements in force that reinsure a portion of the living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with variable
annuity products. Under these agreements, the Company pays or receives reinsurance fees associated with the guarantees collected from policyholders, and pays or receives reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account values, subject
to certain limitations.      The Company also reinsures, through 100% quota share reinsurance agreements, certain
run-off LTC and workers  compensation business written by MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut ( MICC ). These businesses have been included within Corporate   Other.   
  The Company has exposure to catastrophes, which could contribute to significant fluctuations in the Company s
results of operations. The Company uses excess of retention and quota share reinsurance agreements to provide greater diversification of risk and minimize exposure to larger risks. For International, the Company currently purchases catastrophe
coverage to insure risks within certain countries deemed by management to be exposed to the greatest catastrophic risks.      The Company reinsures its business through a diversified group of well-capitalized, highly rated reinsurers. The Company analyzes recent trends in arbitration and litigation outcomes in disputes, if any,
with its reinsurers. The Company monitors ratings and evaluates the financial strength of its reinsurers by analyzing their financial statements. In addition, the reinsurance recoverable balance due from each reinsurer is evaluated as part of the
overall monitoring process. Recoverability of reinsurance recoverable balances is evaluated based on these analyses. The Company generally secures large reinsurance recoverable balances with various forms of collateral, including secured trusts,
funds withheld accounts and irrevocable letters of credit. These reinsurance recoverable balances are stated net of allowances for uncollectible reinsurance, which at December 31, 2011 and 2010, were immaterial.   
  The Company has secured certain reinsurance recoverable balances with various forms of collateral, including secured
trusts, funds withheld accounts and irrevocable letters of credit. The Company had $5.6 billion and $5.5 billion of unsecured unaffiliated reinsurance recoverable balances at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
  At December 31, 2011, the Company had $13.5 billion of net unaffiliated ceded reinsurance recoverables. Of this
total, $10.3 billion, or 76%, were with the Company s five largest unaffiliated ceded reinsurers, including $3.2 billion of which were unsecured. At December 31, 2010, the Company had $13.1 billion of net unaffiliated ceded
reinsurance recoverables. Of this total, $10.0 billion, or 76%, were with the Company s five largest unaffiliated ceded reinsurers, including $3.6 billion of which were unsecured.   
  The Company has reinsured with an unaffiliated third-party reinsurer, 49.25% of the closed block through a modified
coinsurance agreement. The Company accounts for this agreement under the deposit method of accounting. The Company, having the right of offset, has offset the modified coinsurance deposit with the deposit recoverable.   
         349

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The amounts in the consolidated statements of operations include the
impact of reinsurance. Information regarding the effect of reinsurance was as follows:           

350

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The amounts in the consolidated balance sheets include the impact of
reinsurance. Information regarding the effect of reinsurance was as follows at:           

Reinsurance agreements that do not expose the Company to a reasonable possibility of a significant loss
from insurance risk are recorded using the deposit method of accounting. The deposit assets on reinsurance were $2.4 billion and $2.5 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The deposit liabilities on reinsurance were
$66 million and $47 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
    10.  Closed Block    
   On April 7, 2000 (the  Demutualization Date ), Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
( MLIC ) converted from a mutual life insurance company to a stock life insurance company and became a wholly-owned subsidiary of MetLife, Inc. The conversion was pursuant to an order by the New York Superintendent of Insurance (the
 Superintendent ) approving MLIC s plan of reorganization, as amended (the  Plan ). On the Demutualization Date, MLIC established a closed block for the benefit of holders of certain individual life insurance policies of
MLIC. Assets have been allocated to the closed block in an amount that has been determined to produce cash   
         351

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
flows which, together with anticipated revenues from the policies included in the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and liabilities relating to these
policies, including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain expenses and taxes, and to provide for the continuation of policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the experience underlying such dividend scales
continues, and for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. At least annually, the Company compares actual and projected experience against the experience assumed in the then-current dividend scales. Dividend scales are
adjusted periodically to give effect to changes in experience.      The closed block assets, the cash flows
generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenues from the policies in the closed block will benefit only the holders of the policies in the closed block. To the extent that, over time, cash flows from the assets allocated to the
closed block and claims and other experience related to the closed block are, in the aggregate, more or less favorable than what was assumed when the closed block was established, total dividends paid to closed block policyholders in the future may
be greater than or less than the total dividends that would have been paid to these policyholders if the policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999 had been continued. Any cash flows in excess of amounts assumed will be available for
distribution over time to closed block policyholders and will not be available to stockholders. If the closed block has insufficient funds to make guaranteed policy benefit payments, such payments will be made from assets outside of the closed
block. The closed block will continue in effect as long as any policy in the closed block remains in-force. The expected life of the closed block is over 100 years.   
  The Company uses the same accounting principles to account for the participating policies included in the closed block as
it used prior to the Demutualization Date. However, the Company establishes a policyholder dividend obligation for earnings that will be paid to policyholders as additional dividends as described below. The excess of closed block liabilities over
closed block assets at the Demutualization Date (adjusted to eliminate the impact of related amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income) represents the estimated maximum future earnings from the closed block expected to result from operations
attributed to the closed block after income taxes. Earnings of the closed block are recognized in income over the period the policies and contracts in the closed block remain in-force. Management believes that over time the actual cumulative
earnings of the closed block will approximately equal the expected cumulative earnings due to the effect of dividend changes. If, over the period the closed block remains in existence, the actual cumulative earnings of the closed block are greater
than the expected cumulative earnings of the closed block, the Company will pay the excess of the actual cumulative earnings of the closed block over the expected cumulative earnings to closed block policyholders as additional policyholder dividends
unless offset by future unfavorable experience of the closed block and, accordingly, will recognize only the expected cumulative earnings in income with the excess recorded as a policyholder dividend obligation. If over such period, the actual
cumulative earnings of the closed block are less than the expected cumulative earnings of the closed block, the Company will recognize only the actual earnings in income. However, the Company may change policyholder dividend scales in the future,
which would be intended to increase future actual earnings until the actual cumulative earnings equal the expected cumulative earnings.      Experience within the closed block, in particular mortality and investment yields, as well as realized and unrealized gains and losses, directly impact the policyholder dividend obligation. Amortization
of the closed block DAC, which resides outside of the closed block, is based upon cumulative actual and expected earnings within the closed block. Accordingly, the Company s net income continues to be sensitive to the actual performance of the
closed block.   
         352

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Information regarding the closed block liabilities and assets designated
to the closed block was as follows:           

Information regarding the closed block policyholder dividend obligation was as follows:   

353

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Information regarding the closed block revenues and expenses was as
follows:           

The change in the maximum future earnings of the closed block was as follows:   

(1)  
    The closed block adjustment represents an intra-company reallocation of assets which affected the closed block. The adjustment had no impact on the
Company s consolidated financial statements.      
   MLIC charges the closed block with federal income taxes, state and local premium taxes and other
additive state or local taxes, as well as investment management expenses relating to the closed block as provided in the Plan. MLIC also charges the closed block for expenses of maintaining the policies included in the closed block.   
         354

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

    11.  Long-term and Short-term Debt    
   Long-term and short-term debt outstanding was as follows:   

(1)  
    Certain of the fixed rate notes were repaid prior to maturity in 2011.      

The aggregate maturities of long-term debt at December 31, 2011 for the next five years and
thereafter are $1.5 billion in 2012, $1.5 billion in 2013, $1.7 billion in 2014, $2.3 billion in 2015, $2.4 billion in 2016 and $11.2 billion thereafter.   
  Advances agreements and capital lease obligations are collateralized and rank highest in priority, followed by unsecured
senior debt which consists of senior notes, fixed rate notes and other notes with varying interest rates, followed by subordinated debt which consists of junior subordinated debt securities. Payments of interest and principal on the Company s
surplus notes, which are subordinate to all other obligations at the operating company level and senior to obligations at MetLife, Inc., may be made only with the prior approval of the insurance department of the state of domicile. Collateral
financing arrangements are supported by either surplus notes of subsidiaries or financing arrangements with MetLife, Inc. and, accordingly, have priority consistent with other such obligations.   
  Certain of the Company s debt instruments, credit facilities and committed facilities contain various
administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants. The Company believes it was in compliance with all such covenants at December 31, 2011.        Senior Notes   Senior Debt Securities Underlying Equity Units        In connection with the financing of the Acquisition (see Note 2) in November 2010, MetLife, Inc. issued to AM Holdings $3.0 billion (estimated fair value of $3.0 billion) in three series of
Debt Securities, which constitute a part of the Equity Units more fully described in Note 14. The Debt Securities (Series C, D and E) are subject to remarketing, initially bear interest at 1.56%, 1.92% and 2.46%, respectively (an average rate
of 1.98%), and carry initial maturity dates of June 15, 2023, June 15, 2024 and June 15, 2045, respectively. The interest rates will be reset in connection with the successful remarketings of the Debt Securities. Prior to the first
scheduled attempted remarketing of the Series C Debt Securities, such Debt Securities will be divided into two tranches equal in   
         355

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
principal amount with maturity dates of June 15, 2018 and June 15, 2023. Prior to the first scheduled attempted remarketing of the Series E Debt Securities, such Debt Securities will be
divided into two tranches equal in principal amount with maturity dates of June 15, 2018 and June 15, 2045.   
    Senior Notes   Other        In August 2010, in anticipation of the Acquisition, MetLife, Inc. issued senior notes as follows:       

$250 million floating rate senior notes due August 6, 2013, which bear interest at a rate equal to three-month LIBOR, reset quarterly, plus
1.25%, payable quarterly.         In connection with these offerings, MetLife, Inc. incurred
$15 million of issuance costs which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized over the terms of the senior notes.   
  In May 2009, MetLife, Inc. issued $1.3 billion of senior notes due June 1, 2016. The senior notes bear interest
at a fixed rate of 6.75%, payable semiannually. In connection with the offering, MetLife, Inc. incurred $6 million of issuance costs which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized over the term of the
senior notes.      In March 2009, MetLife, Inc. issued $397 million of floating rate senior notes due
June 29, 2012 under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. The senior notes bear interest at a rate equal to three-month LIBOR, reset quarterly, plus 0.32%. The senior notes are not redeemable
prior to their maturity. In connection with the offering, MetLife, Inc. incurred $15 million of issuance costs which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized over the term of the senior notes.
     In February 2009, MetLife, Inc. remarketed its existing $1.0 billion 4.91% Series B junior
subordinated debt securities as 7.717% senior debt securities, Series B, due 2019. Interest on these senior debt securities is payable semiannually. The Series B junior subordinated debt securities were originally issued in 2005. See
Note 13.        Advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York     
  MetLife Bank is a member of the FHLB of NY and held $234 million and $187 million of common stock of the FHLB of NY
at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which is included in equity securities. MetLife Bank has also entered into advances agreements with the FHLB of NY whereby MetLife Bank has received cash advances and under which the FHLB of NY has
been granted a blanket lien on certain of MetLife Bank s residential mortgage loans held-for-sale, commercial mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities to collateralize MetLife Bank s repayment obligations. Upon any event of default by
MetLife Bank, the FHLB of NY s recovery is limited to the amount of MetLife Bank s liability under the advances agreements. The amount of MetLife Bank s liability for advances from the FHLB of NY was $4.8 billion and
$3.8 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which is included in long-term debt and short-term debt depending upon the original tenor of the advance. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, MetLife Bank
  
         356

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
received advances related to long-term borrowings totaling $1.3 billion, $2.1 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, from the FHLB of NY. MetLife Bank made repayments to the FHLB
of NY of $750 million, $349 million and $497 million related to long-term borrowings for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The advances related to both long-term and short-term debt were
collateralized by residential mortgage loans held-for-sale, commercial mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities with estimated fair values of $8.7 billion and $7.8 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
    Collateralized Borrowing from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York     
  MetLife Bank is a depository institution that is approved to use the Federal Reserve Bank of New York Discount Window
borrowing privileges. In order to utilize these privileges, MetLife Bank has pledged qualifying loans and investment securities to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as collateral. MetLife Bank had no liability for advances from the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York at both December 31, 2011 and 2010. The estimated fair value of loan and investment security collateral pledged by MetLife Bank to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York at December 31, 2011 and 2010 was
$1.6 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively. There were no such advances during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the weighted average interest rate on these advances was 0.26%.
During the year ended December 31, 2009, the average daily balance of these advances was $1.5 billion and these advances were outstanding for an average of 24 days.        Short-term Debt        Short-term debt with maturities of
one year or less was as follows:           

During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the weighted average interest rate on
short-term debt was 0.33%, 0.35% and 0.42%, respectively.        Interest Expense     
  Interest expense related to the Company s indebtedness included in other expenses was $975 million,
$815 million and $713 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and does not include interest expense on collateral financing arrangements, junior subordinated debt securities or common equity units.
See Notes 12, 13 and 14.        Credit and Committed Facilities     
  The Company maintains unsecured credit facilities and committed facilities, which aggregated $4.0 billion and
$12.4 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2011. When drawn upon, these facilities bear interest at varying rates in accordance with the respective agreements.   
         357

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Credit Facilities . The unsecured credit facilities are used
for general corporate purposes, to support the borrowers  commercial paper programs and for the issuance of letters of credit. Total fees expensed associated with these credit facilities were $35 million, $17 million and
$43 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Information on these credit facilities at December 31, 2011 was as follows:   

(1)  
    In August 2011, the 364-day, $1.0 billion senior unsecured credit agreement entered into in October 2010 by MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Funding,
Inc., a subsidiary, was amended and restated to provide a five-year, $3.0 billion senior unsecured credit facility. Concurrently, MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Funding, Inc. elected to reduce the outstanding commitments under the three-year,
$3.0 billion senior unsecured credit facility entered into in October 2010 to $1.0 billion with no change to the original maturity of October 2013. The Company incurred costs of $9 million related to the five-year credit facility,
which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs will be amortized over the amended terms of the facilities. Due to the reduction in total capacity of the three-year facility, the Company subsequently expensed $4 million of
the remaining deferred financing costs associated with the October 2010 credit agreement, which are included in other expenses.          

(2)  
    All borrowings under the credit agreement must be repaid by October 2013, except that letters of credit outstanding upon termination may remain
outstanding until October 2014.      

         358

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Committed Facilities .  The committed facilities are
used for collateral for certain of the Company s affiliated reinsurance liabilities. Total fees expensed associated with these committed facilities were $93 million, $92 million and $55 million for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Information on these committed facilities at December 31, 2011 was as follows:       

(1)  
    MetLife, Inc. is guarantor under this agreement.          

(2)  
    The drawdown on this facility is associated with the collateral financing arrangement described more fully in Note 12.      
   As a result of the offerings of certain senior notes (see    Senior Notes   Other )
and common stock (see Note 18), the commitment letter for a $5.0 billion senior credit facility, which MetLife, Inc. signed to partially finance the Acquisition, was terminated. During March 2010, MetLife, Inc. paid $28 million in fees related to
this senior credit facility, all of which were expensed during the year ended December 31, 2010.   
    12.  Collateral Financing Arrangements    
     Associated with the Closed Block     
  In December 2007, MLIC reinsured a portion of its closed block liabilities to MRC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of MetLife,
Inc. In connection with this transaction, MRC issued, to investors placed by an unaffiliated financial institution, $2.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of 35-year surplus notes to provide statutory reserve support for the assumed closed
block liabilities. Interest on the surplus notes accrues at an annual rate of three-month LIBOR plus 0.55%, payable quarterly. The ability of MRC to make interest and principal payments on the surplus notes is contingent upon South Carolina
regulatory approval.      Simultaneous with the issuance of the surplus notes, MetLife, Inc. entered into an
agreement with the unaffiliated financial institution, under which MetLife, Inc. is entitled to the interest paid by MRC on the surplus notes of three-month LIBOR plus 0.55% in exchange for the payment of three-month LIBOR plus 1.12%,
  
         359

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
payable quarterly on such amount as adjusted, as described below. MetLife, Inc. may also be required to pledge collateral or make payments to the unaffiliated financial institution related to any
decline in the estimated fair value of the surplus notes. Any such payments would be accounted for as a receivable and included in other assets on the Company s consolidated balance sheets and would not reduce the principal amount outstanding
of the surplus notes. Such payments would, however, reduce the amount of interest payments due from MetLife, Inc. under the agreement. Any payment received from the unaffiliated financial institution would reduce the receivable by an amount equal to
such payment and would also increase the amount of interest payments due from MetLife, Inc. under the agreement. In addition, the unaffiliated financial institution may be required to pledge collateral to MetLife, Inc. related to any increase in the
estimated fair value of the surplus notes. MetLife, Inc. may also be required to make a payment to the unaffiliated financial institution in connection with any early termination of this agreement.   
  In December 2011, following regulatory approval, MRC repurchased and canceled $650 million in aggregate principal amount
of the surplus notes (the  Partial Repurchase ). Payments made by the Company in December 2011 associated with the Partial Repurchase, which also included payments made to the unaffiliated financial institution, totaled $650 million,
exclusive of accrued interest on the surplus notes. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the amount of the surplus notes outstanding was $1.9 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively.   
  At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the amount of the receivable from the unaffiliated financial institution was
$241 million and $425 million, respectively. In June 2011, MetLife, Inc. received $100 million from the unaffiliated financial institution related to an increase in the estimated fair value of the surplus notes. No payments were made or
received by MetLife, Inc. during 2010. During 2009, on a net basis, MetLife, Inc. received $375 million from the unaffiliated financial institution related to changes in the estimated fair value of the surplus notes.   
  In addition, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, MetLife, Inc. had pledged collateral with an estimated fair value of
$125 million and $49 million, respectively, to the unaffiliated financial institution.      A majority of the
proceeds from the offering of the surplus notes was placed in a trust, which is consolidated by the Company, to support MRC s statutory obligations associated with the assumed closed block liabilities. At both December 31, 2011 and 2010,
the estimated fair value of assets held in trust by the Company was $2.0 billion. The assets are principally invested in fixed maturity securities and are presented as such within the Company s consolidated balance sheets, with the related
income included within net investment income in the Company s consolidated statements of operations. Interest on the collateral financing arrangement is included as a component of other expenses.   
  Total interest expense related to the collateral financing arrangement was $35 million, $36 million and
$51 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.        Associated with Secondary
Guarantees        In May 2007, MetLife, Inc. and MRSC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of MetLife, Inc., entered
into a 30-year collateral financing arrangement with an unaffiliated financial institution that provides up to $3.5 billion of statutory reserve support for MRSC associated with reinsurance obligations under intercompany reinsurance agreements.
Such statutory reserves are associated with universal life secondary guarantees and are required under U.S. Valuation of Life Policies Model Regulation (commonly referred to as Regulation A-XXX). At both December 31, 2011 and 2010,
$2.8 billion had been drawn upon under the collateral financing arrangement. Proceeds from the collateral financing arrangement were placed in trusts to support MRSC s statutory obligations associated with the reinsurance of secondary
guarantees. The trusts are VIEs which are consolidated by the   
         360

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
Company. The unaffiliated financial institution is entitled to the return on the investment portfolio held by the trusts. At both December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company held assets in trust
with an estimated fair value of $3.3 billion associated with the collateral financing arrangement. The assets are principally invested in fixed maturity securities and are presented as such within the Company s consolidated balance sheets, with
the related income included within net investment income in the Company s consolidated statements of operations. Interest on the collateral financing arrangement is included as a component of other expenses. The collateral financing arrangement
may be extended by agreement of MetLife, Inc. and the unaffiliated financial institution on each anniversary of the closing.      In connection with the collateral financing arrangement, MetLife, Inc. entered into an agreement with the same unaffiliated financial institution under which MetLife, Inc. is entitled to the return on the
investment portfolio held by the trusts established in connection with this collateral financing arrangement in exchange for the payment of a stated rate of return to the unaffiliated financial institution of three-month LIBOR plus 0.70%, payable
quarterly. MetLife, Inc. may also be required to make payments to the unaffiliated financial institution, for deposit into the trusts, related to any decline in the estimated fair value of the assets held by the trusts, as well as amounts
outstanding upon maturity or early termination of the collateral financing arrangement. During 2011 and 2010, no payments were made or received by MetLife, Inc. During 2009, MetLife, Inc. contributed $360 million as a result of declines in the
estimated fair value of the assets in the trusts. Cumulatively, since May 2007, MetLife, Inc. has contributed a total of $680 million as a result of declines in the estimated fair value of the assets in the trusts, all of which was deposited
into the trusts.      In addition, MetLife, Inc. may be required to pledge collateral to the unaffiliated
financial institution under this agreement. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, MetLife, Inc. had pledged $92 million and $63 million under the agreement, respectively.   
  Total interest expense related to the collateral financing arrangement was $29 million, $30 million and
$44 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
    13.  Junior Subordinated Debt Securities    
     Outstanding Junior Subordinated Debt Securities     
  Outstanding junior subordinated debt securities and trust securities which MetLife, Inc. will exchange for junior
subordinated debt securities prior to redemption or repayment were as follows:       

(1)  
    MetLife Capital Trust X and MetLife Capital Trust IV are VIEs which are consolidated in the financial statements of the Company. The
securities issued by these entities are exchangeable surplus trust securities, which will be exchanged for a like amount of MetLife, Inc. s junior subordinated debt securities on the scheduled redemption date; mandatorily under certain
circumstances, and at any time upon MetLife, Inc. exercising its option to redeem the securities. The exchangeable surplus trust securities are classified as junior subordinated debt securities for purposes of financial statement presentation.
     
         361

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(2)  
    Prior to the scheduled redemption date, interest is payable semiannually in arrears.      

(3)  
    In the event the securities are not redeemed on or before the scheduled redemption date, interest will accrue after such date at an annual rate of
three-month LIBOR plus a margin, payable quarterly in arrears.      
   In connection with each of the securities described above, MetLife, Inc. may redeem or may cause the
redemption of the securities (i) in whole or in part, at any time on or after the date five years prior to the scheduled redemption date at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the date of redemption, or
(ii) in certain circumstances, in whole or in part, prior to the date five years prior to the scheduled redemption date at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the date of redemption or, if greater, a
make-whole price. MetLife, Inc. also has the right to, and in certain circumstances the requirement to, defer interest payments on the securities for a period up to 10 years. Interest compounds during such periods of deferral. If interest is
deferred for more than five consecutive years, MetLife, Inc. is required to use proceeds from the sale of its common stock or warrants on common stock to satisfy interest payment obligation. In connection with each of the securities described above,
MetLife, Inc. entered into a separate replacement capital covenant ( RCC ). As part of each RCC, MetLife, Inc. agreed that it will not repay, redeem, or purchase the securities on or before a date 10 years prior to the final maturity date
of each issuance, unless, subject to certain limitations, it has received cash proceeds during a specified period from the sale of specified replacement securities. Each RCC will terminate upon the occurrence of certain events, including an
acceleration of the applicable securities due to the occurrence of an event of default. The RCCs are not intended for the benefit of holders of the securities and may not be enforced by them. Rather, each RCC is for the benefit of the holders of a
designated series of MetLife, Inc. s other indebtedness (the  Covered Debt ). Initially, the Covered Debt for each of the securities described above was MetLife, Inc. s 5.70% senior notes due 2035 (the  Senior Notes ).
As a result of the issuance of MetLife, Inc. s 10.750% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2069 (the  10.750% JSDs ), the 10.750% JSDs became the Covered Debt with respect to, and in accordance with, the terms of
the RCC relating to MetLife, Inc. s 6.40% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2066. The Senior Notes continue to be the Covered Debt with respect to, and in accordance with, the terms of the RCCs relating to each of
MetLife Capital Trust IV s 7.875% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Exchangeable Surplus Trust Securities, MetLife Capital Trust X s 9.250% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Exchangeable Surplus Trust Securities and the 10.750% JSDs. MetLife, Inc. also entered
into a replacement capital obligation which will commence during the six month period prior to the scheduled redemption date of each of the securities described above and under which MetLife, Inc. must use reasonable commercial efforts to raise
replacement capital to permit repayment of the securities through the issuance of certain qualifying capital securities.      Issuance costs associated with the issuance of the securities of $5 million were incurred during the year ended December 31, 2009. These issuance costs have been capitalized, are included in other
assets, and are amortized over the period from the issuance date until the scheduled redemption date of the issuance. Interest expense on outstanding junior subordinated debt securities was $258 million, $258 million and $231 million
for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.        Other Junior Subordinated Debt Securities
       In June 2005, MetLife, Inc. issued $1.1 billion 4.91% Series B junior subordinated debt
securities due no later than February 2040, in exchange for $32 million in trust common securities of MetLife Capital Trust III ( Series B Trust ), a subsidiary trust of MetLife, Inc., and $1.0 billion in aggregate cash
proceeds from the sale by the subsidiary trust of trust preferred securities.      In February 2009, the
Series B Trust was dissolved and $32 million of the Series B junior subordinated debt securities were returned to MetLife, Inc. concurrently with the cancellation of the $32 million of trust common
  
         362

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
securities of the Series B Trust held by MetLife, Inc. Upon dissolution of the Series B Trust, the remaining $1.0 billion of Series B junior subordinated debt securities were
distributed to the holders of the trust preferred securities and such trust preferred securities were canceled. In connection with the remarketing transaction in February 2009, the remaining $1.0 billion of MetLife, Inc. Series B
junior subordinated debt securities were modified, as permitted by their terms, to be 7.717% senior debt securities, Series B, due February 2019. The Company did not receive any proceeds from the remarketing. See Note 11.
     Interest expense on these junior subordinated debt securities was $6 million for the year ended
December 31, 2009.   
    14.  Common Equity Units    
     Acquisition of ALICO     
  In connection with the financing of the Acquisition (see Note 2) in November 2010, MetLife, Inc. issued to AM
Holdings 40.0 million Equity Units with an aggregate stated amount at issuance of $3.0 billion and an estimated fair value of $3.2 billion. Each Equity Unit has an initial stated amount of $75 per unit and initially consists of:
(i) three Purchase Contracts, each of which obligates the holder to purchase, on a subsequent settlement date, a variable number of shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock, par value $0.01 per share, for a purchase price of $25 ($75 in the
aggregate); and (ii) a 1/40 undivided beneficial ownership interest in each of three series of Debt Securities issued by MetLife, Inc., each series of Debt Securities having an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion. Distributions on
the Equity Units will be made quarterly, and will consist of contract payments on the Purchase Contracts and interest payments on the Debt Securities, at an aggregate annual rate of 5.00% of the stated amount at any time. The excess of the estimated
fair value of the Equity Units over the estimated fair value of the Debt Securities (see Note 11), after accounting for the present value of future contract payments recorded in other liabilities, resulted in a net decrease to additional
paid-in capital of $69 million, representing the fair value of the Purchase Contracts discussed below. On March 8, 2011, AM Holdings sold, in a public offering, all the Equity Units it received as consideration from MetLife in connection
with the Acquisition. The Equity Units are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.       Purchase Contracts    
  Settlement of the Purchase Contracts of each series will occur upon the successful remarketing of the related series of
Debt Securities, or upon a final failed remarketing of the related series, as described below under    Debt Securities.  On each settlement date subsequent to a successful remarketing, the holder will pay $25 per Equity Unit and
MetLife, Inc. will issue to such holder a variable number of shares of its common stock in settlement of the applicable Purchase Contract. The number of shares to be issued will depend on the average of the daily volume-weighted average prices of
MetLife, Inc. s common stock during the 20 trading day periods ending on, and including, the third day prior to the initial scheduled settlement date for each series of Purchase Contracts. The initially-scheduled settlement dates are
October 10, 2012 for the Series C Purchase Contracts, September 11, 2013 for the Series D Purchase Contracts and October 8, 2014 for the Series E Purchase Contracts. If the average value of MetLife, Inc. s common
stock as calculated pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement during the applicable 20 trading day period is less than or equal to $35.42, as such amount may be adjusted (the  Reference Price ), the number of shares to be issued in
settlement of the Purchase Contract will equal $25 divided by the Reference Price, as calculated pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement (the  Maximum Settlement Rate ). If the market value of MetLife, Inc. s common stock is greater
than or equal to $44.275, as such amount may be adjusted (the  Threshold Appreciation Price ), the number of shares to be issued in settlement of the Purchase Contract will equal $25 divided by the Threshold Appreciation Price, as so
calculated (the  Minimum Settlement Rate ). If the market value of MetLife, Inc. s common stock is greater than   
         363

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
the Reference Price and less than the Threshold Appreciation Price, the number of shares to be issued will equal $25 divided by the applicable market value, as so calculated. In the event of an
unsuccessful remarketing of any series of Debt Securities and the postponement of settlement to a later date, the average market value used to calculate the settlement rate for a particular series will not be recalculated, although certain corporate
events may require adjustments to the settlement rate. After settlement of all the Purchase Contracts, MetLife, Inc. will receive proceeds of $3.0 billion and issue between 67.8 million and 84.7 million shares of its common stock,
subject to certain adjustments. The holder of an Equity Unit may, at its option, settle the related Purchase Contracts before the applicable settlement date. However, upon early settlement, the holder will receive the Minimum Settlement Rate.
     Distributions on the Purchase Contracts will be made quarterly at an average annual rate of 3.02%. The value
of the Purchase Contracts at issuance of $247 million was calculated as the present value of the future contract payments and was recorded in other liabilities with an offsetting decrease in additional paid-in capital. The other liabilities
balance will be reduced as contract payments are made. For the year ended December 31, 2011, $102 million of contract payments were made. For the year ended December 31, 2010, no contract payments were made.   
   Debt Securities       The Debt Securities are senior, unsecured notes of MetLife, Inc. which, in the aggregate, pay quarterly distributions at an initial average annual rate of 1.98% and are included in long-term debt (see
Note 11 for further discussion of terms). The Debt Securities will be initially pledged as collateral to secure the obligations of each Equity Unit holder under the related Purchase Contracts. Each series of the Debt Securities will be subject
to a remarketing and sold on behalf of participating holders to investors. The proceeds of a remarketing, net of any related fees, will be applied on behalf of participating holders who so elect to settle any obligation of the holder to pay cash
under the related Purchase Contract on the applicable settlement dates. The initially-scheduled remarketing dates are October 10, 2012 for the Series C Debt Securities, September 11, 2013 for the Series D Debt Securities and
October 8, 2014 for the Series E Debt Securities, subject to delay if there are one or more unsuccessful remarketings. If the initial attempted remarketing of a series is unsuccessful, up to two additional remarketing attempts will occur.
At the remarketing date, the remarketing agent may reset the interest rate on the Debt Securities, subject to a reset cap for each of the first two attempted remarketings of each series. If a remarketing is successful, the reset rate will apply to
all outstanding Debt Securities of the applicable tranche of the remarketed series, whether or not the holder participated in the remarketing and will become effective on the settlement date of such remarketing. If the first remarketing attempt with
respect to a series is unsuccessful, the applicable Purchase Contract settlement date will be delayed for three calendar months, at which time a second remarketing attempt will occur in connection with settlement. If the second remarketing attempt
is unsuccessful, one additional delay may occur on the same basis. If both additional remarketing attempts are unsuccessful, a  final failed remarketing  will have occurred, and the interest rate on such series of Debt Securities will not
be reset and the holder may put such series of Debt Securities to MetLife, Inc. at a price equal to its principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, and apply the principal amount against the holder s obligations under the related
Purchase Contract.   
         364

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

    15. Income Tax    
   The provision for income tax from continuing operations was as follows:   

The reconciliation of the income tax provision at the U.S. statutory rate to the provision for income
tax as reported for continuing operations was as follows:           

365

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between
the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Net deferred income tax assets and liabilities consisted of the following at:       

The following table sets forth the domestic, state, and foreign net operating and capital loss
carryforwards for tax purposes at December 31, 2011:           

Tax credit carryforwards of $1.7 billion at December 31, 2011 will expire beginning in 2016.
     As of the Acquisition Date, the Company had established a valuation allowance of $671 million against the
amount of U.S. deferred tax assets that was expected to reverse post-branch restructuring of American Life. As of November 1, 2011 the Company finalized American Life s current and deferred income tax liabilities based upon the
determination of the amount of taxes resulting from the Section 338 Election and the corresponding filing of the income tax return. Accordingly, American Life s current income tax receivable was increased by $12 million and deferred tax
assets were reduced by $2 million with a corresponding net decrease to goodwill. The Company also increased the valuation allowance recorded against U.S. deferred tax assets to $720 million. The increase in the valuation allowance of
$49 million, with a corresponding increase to goodwill, was a result of changes in estimates and assumptions relating to the reversal of U.S. temporary differences prior to the completion of the anticipated restructuring of American Life s
foreign branches and filing of the income tax return.      The Company also has recorded a valuation allowance
increase related to tax benefits of $20 million related to certain state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards, $1 million related to certain foreign unrealized losses,   
         366

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
$86 million related to certain foreign other assets, and a decrease of $5 million related to certain foreign capital loss carryforwards. The valuation allowance reflects management s
assessment, based on available information, that it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset for certain foreign net operating and capital loss carryforwards, certain state net operating loss carryforwards, certain foreign
unrealized losses and certain foreign other assets will not be realized. The tax benefit will be recognized when management believes that it is more likely than not that these deferred income tax assets are realizable.   
  The Company has not provided U.S. deferred taxes on cumulative earnings of certain non-U.S. affiliates and
associated companies that have been reinvested indefinitely. These earnings relate to ongoing operations and have been reinvested in active non-U.S. business operations. The Company does not intend to repatriate these earnings to
fund U.S. operations. Deferred taxes are provided for earnings of non-U.S. affiliates and associated companies when the Company plans to remit those earnings. At December 31, 2011 the Company had not made a provision for
U.S. taxes on approximately $1.7 billion of the excess of the amount for financial reporting over the tax basis of investments in foreign subsidiaries that are essentially permanent in duration. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of
deferred tax liability related to investments in these foreign subsidiaries.      The Company files income tax
returns with the U.S. federal government and various state and local jurisdictions, as well as foreign jurisdictions. The Company is under continuous examination by the IRS and other tax authorities in jurisdictions in which the Company has
significant business operations. The income tax years under examination vary by jurisdiction. With a few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state and local, or foreign income tax examinations by tax authorities for
years prior to 2000. In early 2009, the Company and the IRS completed and substantially settled the audit years of 2000 to 2002. A few issues not settled have been escalated to the next level, IRS Appeals. The IRS exam of the current audit cycle,
years 2003 to 2006, began in April 2010.      The Company s liability for unrecognized tax benefits may
decrease in the next 12 months pending the outcome of remaining issues, tax-exempt income and tax credits associated with the 2000 to 2002 IRS audit. A reasonable estimate of the decrease cannot be made at this time. However, the Company
continues to believe that the ultimate resolution of the issues will not result in a material change to its consolidated financial statements, although the resolution of income tax matters could impact the Company s effective tax rate for a
particular future period.      A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits
was as follows:           

(1)  
    An increase of $169 million resulted from the acquisition of American Life.      

         367

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The Company classifies interest accrued related to unrecognized tax
benefits in interest expense, included within other expenses, while penalties are included in income tax expense.      Interest and penalties were as follows:           

(1)  
    An increase of $20 million resulted from the acquisition of American Life.      
   The U.S. Treasury Department and the IRS have indicated that they intend to address through regulations
the methodology to be followed in determining the dividends received deduction ( DRD ), related to variable life insurance and annuity contracts. The DRD reduces the amount of dividend income subject to tax and is a significant component
of the difference between the actual tax expense and expected amount determined using the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. Any regulations that the IRS ultimately proposes for issuance in this area will be subject to public notice and comment, at
which time insurance companies and other interested parties will have the opportunity to raise legal and practical questions about the content, scope and application of such regulations. As a result, the ultimate timing and substance of any such
regulations are unknown at this time. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company recognized an income tax benefit of $159 million and $87 million, respectively, related to the separate account DRD. The 2011 benefit
included a benefit of $8 million related to a true-up of the 2010 tax return. The 2010 benefit included an expense of $57 million related to a true-up of the 2009 tax return.   
    16. Contingencies, Commitments and Guarantees    
    Contingencies         Litigation        The Company is a defendant in a large
number of litigation matters. In some of the matters, very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, are sought. Modern pleading practice in the U.S. permits considerable variation in the assertion of monetary
damages or other relief. Jurisdictions may permit claimants not to specify the monetary damages sought or may permit claimants to state only that the amount sought is sufficient to invoke the jurisdiction of the trial court. In addition,
jurisdictions may permit plaintiffs to allege monetary damages in amounts well exceeding reasonably possible verdicts in the jurisdiction for similar matters. This variability in pleadings, together with the actual experience of the Company in
litigating or resolving through settlement numerous claims over an extended period of time, demonstrates to management that the monetary relief which may be specified in a lawsuit or claim bears little relevance to its merits or disposition value.
     Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and the amount or range of potential
loss at particular points in time may normally be difficult to ascertain. Uncertainties can include how fact finders will evaluate documentary evidence and the credibility and effectiveness of witness testimony, and how trial and
  
         368

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
appellate courts will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal. Disposition valuations are also subject to the
uncertainty of how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the relevant evidence and applicable law.      The Company establishes liabilities for litigation and regulatory loss contingencies when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities
have been established for a number of the matters noted below. It is possible that some of the matters could require the Company to pay damages or make other expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that could not be estimated at
December 31, 2011. While the potential future charges could be material in the particular quarterly or annual periods in which they are recorded, based on information currently known to management, management does not believe any such charges
are likely to have a material effect on the Company s financial position.       Matters as to Which an Estimate Can Be Made
      For some of the matters disclosed below, the Company is able to estimate a reasonably possible range of
loss. For such matters where a loss is believed to be reasonably possible, but not probable, no accrual has been made. As of December 31, 2011, the Company estimates the aggregate range of reasonably possible losses in excess of amounts accrued
for these matters to be approximately $0 to $200 million.       Matters as to Which an Estimate Cannot Be Made
      For other matters disclosed below, the Company is not currently able to estimate the reasonably possible
loss or range of loss. The Company is often unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss until developments in such matters have provided sufficient information to support an assessment of the range of possible loss, such as quantification
of a damage demand from plaintiffs, discovery from other parties and investigation of factual allegations, rulings by the court on motions or appeals, analysis by experts, and the progress of settlement negotiations. On a quarterly and annual basis,
the Company reviews relevant information with respect to litigation contingencies and updates its accruals, disclosures and estimates of reasonably possible losses or ranges of loss based on such reviews.   
   Asbestos-Related Claims       MLIC is and has been a defendant in a large number of asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts. These suits principally allege that the plaintiff or plaintiffs suffered personal injury
resulting from exposure to asbestos and seek both actual and punitive damages. MLIC has never engaged in the business of manufacturing, producing, distributing or selling asbestos or asbestos-containing products nor has MLIC issued liability or
workers  compensation insurance to companies in the business of manufacturing, producing, distributing or selling asbestos or asbestos-containing products. The lawsuits principally have focused on allegations with respect to certain research,
publication and other activities of one or more of MLIC s employees during the period from the 1920 s through approximately the 1950 s and allege that MLIC learned or should have learned of certain health risks posed by asbestos and,
among other things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those health risks. MLIC believes that it should not have legal liability in these cases. The outcome of most asbestos litigation matters, however, is uncertain and can be impacted by
numerous variables, including differences in legal rulings in various jurisdictions, the nature of the alleged injury and factors unrelated to the ultimate legal merit of the claims asserted against MLIC. MLIC employs a number of resolution
strategies to manage its asbestos loss exposure, including seeking resolution of pending litigation by judicial rulings and settling individual or groups of claims or lawsuits under appropriate circumstances.   
  Claims asserted against MLIC have included negligence, intentional tort and conspiracy concerning the health risks
associated with asbestos. MLIC s defenses (beyond denial of certain factual allegations) include that: (i) MLIC owed no duty to the plaintiffs   it had no special relationship with the plaintiffs and did not
  
         369

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
manufacture, produce, distribute or sell the asbestos products that allegedly injured plaintiffs; (ii) plaintiffs did not rely on any actions of MLIC; (iii) MLIC s conduct was not
the cause of the plaintiffs  injuries; (iv) plaintiffs  exposure occurred after the dangers of asbestos were known; and (v) the applicable time with respect to filing suit has expired. During the course of the litigation, certain
trial courts have granted motions dismissing claims against MLIC, while other trial courts have denied MLIC s motions to dismiss. There can be no assurance that MLIC will receive favorable decisions on motions in the future. While most cases
brought to date have settled, MLIC intends to continue to defend aggressively against claims based on asbestos exposure, including defending claims at trials.      The approximate total number of asbestos personal injury claims pending against MLIC as of the dates indicated, the approximate number of new claims during the years ended on those dates and the
approximate total settlement payments made to resolve asbestos personal injury claims at or during those years are set forth in the following table:       

(1)  
    Settlement payments represent payments made by MLIC during the year in connection with settlements made in that year and in prior years. Amounts do
not include MLIC s attorneys  fees and expenses and do not reflect amounts received from insurance carriers.      
   In 2008, MLIC received approximately 5,063 new claims, ending the year with a total of approximately
74,027 claims, and paid approximately $99 million for settlements reached in 2008 and prior years. In 2007, MLIC received approximately 7,161 new claims, ending the year with a total of approximately 79,717 claims, and paid approximately
$28.2 million for settlements reached in 2007 and prior years. In 2006, MLIC received approximately 7,870 new claims, ending the year with a total of approximately 87,070 claims, and paid approximately $35.5 million for settlements reached
in 2006 and prior years. In 2005, MLIC received approximately 18,500 new claims, ending the year with a total of approximately 100,250 claims, and paid approximately $74.3 million for settlements reached in 2005 and prior years. In 2004, MLIC
received approximately 23,900 new claims, ending the year with a total of approximately 108,000 claims, and paid approximately $85.5 million for settlements reached in 2004 and prior years. In 2003, MLIC received approximately 58,750 new
claims, ending the year with a total of approximately 111,700 claims, and paid approximately $84.2 million for settlements reached in 2003 and prior years. The number of asbestos cases that may be brought, the aggregate amount of any liability
that MLIC may incur, and the total amount paid in settlements in any given year are uncertain and may vary significantly from year to year.      The ability of MLIC to estimate its ultimate asbestos exposure is subject to considerable uncertainty, and the conditions impacting its liability can be dynamic and subject to change. The availability of
reliable data is limited and it is difficult to predict the numerous variables that can affect liability estimates, including the number of future claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity of disease in pending and future
claims, the impact of the number of new claims filed in a particular jurisdiction and variations in the law in the jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible impact of tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to allow plaintiffs to
pursue claims against MLIC when exposure to asbestos took place after the dangers of asbestos exposure were well known, and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts.   
         370

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The ability to make estimates regarding ultimate asbestos exposure
declines significantly as the estimates relate to years further in the future. In the Company s judgment, there is a future point after which losses cease to be probable and reasonably estimable. It is reasonably possible that the
Company s total exposure to asbestos claims may be materially greater than the asbestos liability currently accrued and that future charges to income may be necessary. To the extent the Company can estimate reasonably possible losses in excess
of amounts accrued, it has been included in the aggregate estimate of reasonably possible loss provided above. While the potential future charges could be material in the particular quarterly or annual periods in which they are recorded, based on
information currently known by management, management does not believe any such charges are likely to have a material effect on the Company s financial position.   
  The Company believes adequate provision has been made in its consolidated financial statements for all probable and
reasonably estimable losses for asbestos-related claims. MLIC s recorded asbestos liability is based on its estimation of the following elements, as informed by the facts presently known to it, its understanding of current law and its past
experiences: (i) the probable and reasonably estimable liability for asbestos claims already asserted against MLIC, including claims settled but not yet paid; (ii) the probable and reasonably estimable liability for asbestos claims not yet
asserted against MLIC, but which MLIC believes are reasonably probable of assertion; and (iii) the legal defense costs associated with the foregoing claims. Significant assumptions underlying MLIC s analysis of the adequacy of its recorded
liability with respect to asbestos litigation include: (i) the number of future claims; (ii) the cost to resolve claims; and (iii) the cost to defend claims.   
  MLIC reevaluates on a quarterly and annual basis its exposure from asbestos litigation, including studying its claims
experience, reviewing external literature regarding asbestos claims experience in the United States, assessing relevant trends impacting asbestos liability and considering numerous variables that can affect its asbestos liability exposure on an
overall or per claim basis. These variables include bankruptcies of other companies involved in asbestos litigation, legislative and judicial developments, the number of pending claims involving serious disease, the number of new claims filed
against it and other defendants and the jurisdictions in which claims are pending. As previously disclosed, in 2002 MLIC increased its recorded liability for asbestos-related claims by $402 million from approximately $820 million to
$1.2 billion. Based upon its regular reevaluation of its exposure from asbestos litigation, MLIC has updated its liability analysis for asbestos-related claims through December 31, 2011.   
   Regulatory Matters       The Company receives and responds to subpoenas or other inquiries from state regulators, including state insurance commissioners; state attorneys general or other state governmental authorities; federal
regulators, including the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC  federal governmental authorities, including congressional committees; and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ( FINRA ) seeking a broad range of
information. The issues involved in information requests and regulatory matters vary widely. The Company cooperates in these inquiries.       MetLife Bank Mortgage Servicing Regulatory and Law Enforcement Authorities  Inquiries.  Since 2008, MetLife, through its affiliate, MetLife Bank, has significantly increased its mortgage
servicing activities by acquiring servicing portfolios. Currently, MetLife Bank services approximately 1% of the aggregate principal amount of the mortgage loans serviced in the U.S. State and federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities
have initiated various inquiries, investigations or examinations of alleged irregularities in the foreclosure practices of the residential mortgage servicing industry. Mortgage servicing practices have also been the subject of Congressional
attention. Authorities have publicly stated that the scope of the investigations extends beyond foreclosure documentation practices to include mortgage loan modification and loss mitigation practices.   
         371

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   MetLife Bank s mortgage servicing has been the subject of recent
inquiries and requests by state and federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities. MetLife Bank is cooperating with the authorities  review of this business. On April 13, 2011, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
( OCC ) entered into consent decrees with several banks, including MetLife Bank. The consent decrees require an independent review of foreclosure practices and set forth new residential mortgage servicing standards, including a requirement
for a designated point of contact for a borrower during the loss mitigation process. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board entered into consent decrees with the affiliated bank holding companies of these banks, including MetLife, Inc., to enhance
the supervision of the mortgage servicing activities of their banking subsidiaries. In a February 9, 2012 press release, the Federal Reserve Board announced that it had issued monetary sanctions against five banking organizations for
deficiencies in the organizations  servicing of residential mortgage loans and processing of foreclosures. The Federal Reserve Board also stated that it plans to announce monetary penalties against six other institutions under its supervision
against whom it had issued enforcement actions in 2011 for deficiencies in servicing of residential mortgage loans and processing foreclosures. The Federal Reserve Board did not identify these six institutions, but MetLife, Inc. is among the
institutions that entered into consent decrees with the Federal Reserve Board in 2011. MetLife Bank has also had a meeting with the Department of Justice regarding mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices. It is possible that various state or
federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities may seek monetary penalties from MetLife Bank relating to foreclosure practices. MetLife Bank is responding to a subpoena issued by the New York State Department of Financial Services regarding
hazard insurance and flood insurance that MetLife Bank obtains to protect the lienholder s interest when the borrower s insurance has lapsed.      These consent decrees, as well as the inquiries or investigations referred to above, could adversely affect MetLife s reputation or result in material fines, penalties, equitable remedies or other
enforcement actions, and result in significant legal costs in responding to governmental investigations or other litigation. In addition, the changes to the mortgage servicing business required by the consent decrees and the resolution of any other
inquiries or investigations may affect the profitability of such business. The Company is unable to estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of loss arising from the MetLife Bank regulatory matters. Management believes that the Company s
consolidated financial statements as a whole will not be materially affected by the MetLife Bank regulatory matters.       United States of America v. EME Homer City Generation, L.P., et al. (W.D. Pa., filed January 4, 2011).  On January 4, 2011, the U.S. commenced a civil action in United
States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania against EME Homer City Generation L.P. ( EME Homer City ), Homer City OL6 LLC, and other defendants regarding the operations of the Homer City Generating Station, an
electricity generating facility. Homer City OL6 LLC, an entity owned by MLIC, is a passive investor with a noncontrolling interest in the electricity generating facility, which is solely operated by the lessee, EME Homer City. The complaint sought
injunctive relief and assessment of civil penalties for alleged violations of the federal Clean Air Act and Pennsylvania s State Implementation Plan. The alleged violations were the subject of Notices of Violations ( NOVs ) that the
Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) issued to EME Homer City, Homer City OL6 LLC, and others in June 2008 and May 2010. On January 7, 2011, the United States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania granted the
motion by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection and the State of New York to intervene in the lawsuit as additional plaintiffs. On February 16, 2011, the State of New Jersey filed an Intervenor s Complaint in the lawsuit.
On January 7, 2011, two plaintiffs filed a putative class action titled  Scott Jackson and Maria Jackson v. EME Homer City Generation L.P., et al . in the United States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania on behalf
of a putative class of persons who have allegedly incurred damage to their persons and/or property because of the violations alleged in the action brought by the U.S. Homer City OL6 LLC is a defendant in this action. On October 12, 2011,
the court issued an order dismissing the U.S. s lawsuit with prejudice. The Government entities have appealed from the order   
         372

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
granting defendants  motion to dismiss. On October 13, 2011, the court also issued an order dismissing the federal claims in the putative class actions with prejudice and dismissing the
state law claims in the putative class actions without prejudice to re-file in state court. EME Homer City has acknowledged its obligation to indemnify Homer City OL6 LLC for any claims relating to the NOVs. Due to the acknowledged indemnification
obligation, this matter is not included in the aggregate estimate of range of reasonably possible loss. In a February 13, 2012 letter to EME Homer City, Homer City OL6 LLC and others, the Sierra Club indicated its intent to sue for alleged
violations of the Clean Air Act and to seek to enjoin the alleged violations, seek unspecified penalties and attorneys  fees, and other relief. Homer City OL6 LLC has served a claim for indemnification on EME Homer City.   
   In the Matter of Chemform, Inc. Site, Pompano Beach, Broward County, Florida.  In July 2010, the EPA advised
MLIC that it believed payments were due under two settlement agreements, known as  Administrative Orders on Consent,  that New England Mutual Life Insurance Company ( New England Mutual ) signed in 1989 and 1992 with respect to
the cleanup of a Superfund site in Florida (the  Chemform Site ). The EPA originally contacted MLIC (as successor to New England Mutual) and a third party in 2001, and advised that they owed additional clean-up costs for the Chemform Site.
The matter was not resolved at that time. The EPA is requesting payment of an amount under $1 million from MLIC and such third party for past costs and an additional amount for future environmental testing costs at the Chemform Site. The
Company estimates that the aggregate cost to resolve this matter will not exceed $1 million.       Sales
Practices Regulatory Matters.  Regulatory authorities in a small number of states and FINRA, and occasionally the SEC, have had investigations or inquiries relating to sales of individual life insurance policies or annuities or other
products by MLIC, MICC, New England Life Insurance Company and General American Life Insurance Company, and four Company broker-dealers, which are MetLife Securities, Inc., New England Securities Corporation, Walnut Street Securities, Inc. and Tower
Square Securities, Inc. These investigations often focus on the conduct of particular financial services representatives and the sale of unregistered or unsuitable products or the misuse of client assets. Over the past several years, these and a
number of investigations by other regulatory authorities were resolved for monetary payments and certain other relief, including restitution payments. The Company may continue to resolve investigations in a similar manner. The Company believes
adequate provision has been made in its consolidated financial statements for all probable and reasonably estimable losses for these sales practices-related investigations or inquiries.   
   Unclaimed Property Inquiries and Related Litigation    
  More than 30 U.S. jurisdictions are auditing MetLife, Inc. and certain of its affiliates for compliance with
unclaimed property laws. Additionally, MLIC and certain of its affiliates have received subpoenas and other regulatory inquiries from certain regulators and other officials relating to claims-payment practices and compliance with unclaimed property
laws. An examination of these practices by the Illinois Department of Insurance has been converted into a multistate targeted market conduct exam. On July 5, 2011, the New York Insurance Department issued a letter requiring life insurers doing
business in New York to use data available on the U.S. Social Security Administration s Death Master File or a similar database to identify instances where death benefits under life insurance policies, annuities, and retained asset
accounts are payable, to locate and pay beneficiaries under such contracts, and to report the results of the use of the data. It is possible that other jurisdictions may pursue similar investigations or inquiries, may join the multistate market
conduct exam, or issue directives similar to the New York Insurance Department s letter. In the third quarter of 2011, the Company incurred a $117 million after tax charge to increase reserves in connection with the Company s use of
the U.S. Social Security Administration s Death Master File and similar databases to identify potential life insurance claims that have not yet been presented to the Company. It is possible that the audits, market conduct exam, and related
activity may result in additional payments to beneficiaries, additional escheatment of funds deemed   
         373

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
abandoned under state laws, administrative penalties, interest, and changes to the Company s procedures for the identification and escheatment of abandoned property. The Company believes
that payments for life insurance claims not yet presented and interest thereon will not be materially different from the reserve charge noted above. To the extent the Company can estimate the reasonably possible amount of potential additional
payments, it has been included in the aggregate estimate of reasonably possible loss provided above. It is possible that there will be additional payments or other expenses incurred with respect to changes in procedures, and the Company is not
currently able to estimate these additional possible amounts but such costs may be substantial.       Total
Asset Recovery Services, LLC on behalf of the State of Illinois v. MetLife, Inc., et. al. (Cir. Ct. Cook County, IL, filed January 24, 2011).  Alleging that MetLife, Inc. and another company have violated the Illinois Uniform Disposition of
Unclaimed Property Act by failing to escheat to Illinois benefits of 4,766 life insurance contracts, Total Asset Recovery Services, LLC ( the Relator ) has brought an action under the Illinois False Claims Whistleblower Reward and
Protection Act seeking to recover damages on behalf of Illinois. The action was sealed by court order until January 18, 2012. The Relator alleges that the aggregate damages, including statutory damages and treble damages, is $1,572,780,000. The
Relator does not allocate this claimed damage amount between MetLife, Inc. and the other defendant. The Relator also bases its damage calculation in part on its assumption that the average face amount of the subject policies is $110,000. MetLife,
Inc. strongly disputes this assumption, the Relator s alleged damages amounts, and other allegations in the complaint, and intends to defend this action vigorously.   
   City of Westland Police and Fire Retirement System v. MetLife, Inc., et. al. (S.D.N.Y., filed January 12,
2012).  Seeking to represent a class of persons who purchased MetLife, Inc. common shares between February 2, 2010, and October 6, 2011, the plaintiff filed an action alleging that MetLife, Inc. and several current and former executive
officers of MetLife, Inc. violated the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder by issuing, or causing MetLife, Inc. to issue, materially false and misleading statements concerning MetLife, Inc. s potential
liability for millions of dollars in insurance benefits that should have been paid to beneficiaries or escheated to the states. Plaintiff seeks unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. The defendants intend to vigorously defend this
action.       Fishbaum v. Kandarian, et al. (Sup. Ct., New York County, filed January 27, 2012). 
Seeking to sue derivatively on behalf of MetLife, Inc., a shareholder commenced an action against members of the MetLife, Inc. Board of Directors alleging that they breached their fiduciary and other duties to the Company. Plaintiff alleges that the
defendants failed to ensure that the Company complied with state unclaimed property laws and to ensure that the Company accurately reported its earnings. Plaintiff alleges that because of the defendants  breaches of duty, MetLife, Inc. has
incurred damage to its reputation and has suffered other unspecified damages. The defendants intend to vigorously defend this action.       Total Control Accounts Litigation       MLIC is a defendant in
lawsuits related to its use of retained asset accounts, known as Total Control Accounts ( TCA ), as a settlement option for death benefits. The lawsuits include claims of breach of contract, breach of a common law fiduciary duty or a
quasi-fiduciary duty such as a confidential or special relationship, or breach of a fiduciary duty under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ).   
   Clark, et al. v. Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (D. Nev., filed March 28, 2008).  This putative
class action lawsuit alleges breach of contract and breach of a common law fiduciary and/or quasi-fiduciary duty arising from use of the TCA to pay life insurance policy death benefits. As damages, plaintiffs seek disgorgement of the difference
between the interest paid to the account holders and the investment earnings on the assets backing the accounts. In March 2009, the court granted in part and denied in part MLIC s motion to dismiss, dismissing the fiduciary duty and unjust
enrichment claims but allowing a breach of contract claim and a special   
         374

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
or confidential relationship claim to go forward. On September 9, 2010, the court granted MLIC s motion for summary judgment. Plaintiffs appealed this order and on December 7,
2011, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed the district court s grant of summary judgment to MLIC, finding no breach of contract because plaintiffs suffered no damages and finding that no special or confidential
relationship existed between the parties under Nevada law.       Faber, et al. v. Metropolitan Life Insurance
Company (S.D.N.Y., filed December 4, 2008).  This putative class action lawsuit alleges that MLIC s use of the TCA as the settlement option under group life insurance policies violates MLIC s fiduciary duties under ERISA. As
damages, plaintiffs seek disgorgement of the difference between the interest paid to the account holders and the investment earnings on the assets backing the accounts. On October 23, 2009, the court granted MLIC s motion to dismiss with
prejudice. On August 5, 2011, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the dismissal of the complaint. Plaintiffs  petition for a rehearing or rehearing en banc with the Second Circuit was denied by the Second
Circuit on November 1, 2011.       Keife, et al. v. Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (D. Nev., filed in
state court on July 30, 2010 and removed to federal court on September 7, 2010).  This putative class action lawsuit raises a breach of contract claim arising from MLIC s use of the TCA to pay life insurance benefits under the
Federal Employees  Group Life Insurance program ( FEGLI ). As damages, plaintiffs seek disgorgement of the difference between the interest paid to the account holders and the investment earnings on the assets backing the accounts. In
September 2010, plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification of the breach of contract claim, which the court has denied. On April 28, 2011, the court denied MLIC s motion to dismiss.   
   Simon v. Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (D. Nev., filed November 3, 2011).  Similar to Keife v.
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (pending in the same court), in this putative class action the plaintiff alleges that MLIC improperly paid interest to FEGLI beneficiaries. Specifically, plaintiff alleges that under the terms of the FEGLI policy,
MLIC is required to make  immediate  payment of death benefits in  one sum.  MLIC, plaintiff alleges, breached this duty by instead retaining the death benefits in its general investment account and sending beneficiaries a
 book of drafts  known as the  TCA Money Market Option  as the only means by which funds can be accessed. Plaintiff further alleges that MLIC manipulates interest rates paid to policy beneficiaries. This matter has been
consolidated with  Keife .      The Company is unable to estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of
loss arising from the TCA matters.       Other U.S. Litigation    
   Roberts, et al. v. Tishman Speyer Properties, et al. (Sup. Ct., N.Y. County, filed January 22,
2007).  This lawsuit was filed by a putative class of market rate tenants at Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village against parties including Metropolitan Tower Life Insurance Company ( MTL ) and Metropolitan Insurance and
Annuity Company. Metropolitan Insurance and Annuity Company has merged into MTL and no longer exists as a separate entity. These tenants claim that MTL, as former owner, and the current owner improperly deregulated apartments while receiving J-51
tax abatements. The lawsuit seeks declaratory relief and damages for rent overcharges. In October 2009, the New York State Court of Appeals issued an opinion denying MTL s motion to dismiss the complaint. MTL has reached a settlement in
principle with the plaintiff tenants, subject to finalizing the settlement terms and court approval. The Company believes adequate provision has been made in its consolidated financial statements for all probable and reasonably estimable losses for
this lawsuit.       Merrill Haviland, et al. v. Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (E.D. Mich., removed to
federal court on July 22, 2011).  This lawsuit was filed by 45 retired General Motors ( GM ) employees against MLIC and includes claims for conversion, unjust enrichment, breach of contract, fraud, intentional infliction of
emotional distress, fraudulent insurance acts, and unfair trade practices, based upon GM s 2009 reduction of the employees    
         375

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
life insurance coverage under GM s ERISA-governed plan. The complaint includes a count seeking class action status. MLIC is the insurer of GM s group life insurance plan and administers
claims under the plan. According to the complaint, MLIC had previously provided plaintiffs with a  written guarantee  that their life insurance benefits under the GM plan would not be reduced for the rest of their lives. MLIC has removed
the case to federal court based upon complete ERISA preemption of the state law claims. Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint recasting the state law claims and asserting ERISA claims. MLIC has filed a motion to dismiss.   
   Sales Practices Claims.  Over the past several years, the Company has faced numerous claims, including class
action lawsuits, alleging improper marketing or sales of individual life insurance policies, annuities, mutual funds or other products. Some of the current cases seek substantial damages, including punitive and treble damages and attorneys 
fees. The Company continues to vigorously defend against the claims in these matters. The Company believes adequate provision has been made in its consolidated financial statements for all probable and reasonably estimable losses for sales practices
matters.       International Litigation    
   Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. (Super. Ct., Ontario, October
2006).  In 2006, Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada ( Sun Life ), as successor to the purchaser of MLIC s Canadian operations, filed this lawsuit in Toronto, seeking a declaration that MLIC remains liable for  market
conduct claims  related to certain individual life insurance policies sold by MLIC and that have been transferred to Sun Life. Sun Life had asked that the court require MLIC to indemnify Sun Life for these claims pursuant to indemnity
provisions in the sale agreement for the sale of MLIC s Canadian operations entered into in June of 1998. In January 2010, the court found that Sun Life had given timely notice of its claim for indemnification but, because it found that Sun
Life had not yet incurred an indemnifiable loss, granted MLIC s motion for summary judgment. Both parties appealed. In September 2010, Sun Life notified MLIC that a purported class action lawsuit was filed against Sun Life in Toronto,
Kang v. Sun Life Assurance Co. (Super. Ct., Ontario, September 2010), alleging sales practices claims regarding the same individual policies sold by MLIC and transferred to Sun Life. An amended class action complaint in that case was served on
Sun Life, again without naming MLIC as a party. On August 30, 2011, Sun Life notified MLIC that a purported class action lawsuit was filed against Sun Life in Vancouver, Alamwala v. Sun Life Assurance Co. (Sup. Ct., British Columbia,
August 2011), alleging sales practices claims regarding certain of the same policies sold by MLIC and transferred to Sun Life. Sun Life contends that MLIC is obligated to indemnify Sun Life for some or all of the claims in these lawsuits. The
Company is unable to estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of loss arising from this litigation.   
   Italy Fund Redemption Suspension Complaints and Litigation.  As a result of suspension of
withdrawals and diminution in value in certain funds offered within certain unit-linked policies sold by the Italian branch of Alico Life International, Ltd. ( ALIL ), a number of policyholders invested in those funds have either commenced
or threatened litigation against ALIL, alleging misrepresentation, inadequate disclosures and other related claims. These policyholders contacted ALIL beginning in July 2009 alleging that the funds operated at variance to the published prospectus
and that prospectus risk disclosures were allegedly wrong, unclear, and misleading. The limited number of lawsuits that have been filed to date have either been resolved or are proceeding through litigation. In March 2011, ALIL began implementing a
plan to resolve policyholder claims. Under the plan, ALIL will provide liquidity to the suspended funds so that policyholders may withdraw investments in these funds, and ALIL will offer policyholders amounts in addition to the liquidation value of
the suspended funds based on the performance of other relevant financial products. The settlement program achieved a 96% acceptance rate. Those policyholders who did not accept the settlement may still pursue other remedies or commence individual
litigation. The formal investigation opened by the Milan public prosecutor into the actions of ALIL employees, as well as of employees of ALIL s major distributor, has been dismissed by the court. Under the terms of the stock purchase agreement
dated as of March 7, 2010, as amended, by and among MetLife, Inc., AIG and AM   
         376

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
Holdings, AIG has agreed to indemnify MetLife, Inc. and its affiliates for third party claims and regulatory fines associated with ALIL s suspended funds. Due to the acknowledged
indemnification obligation, this matter is not included in the aggregate estimate of range of reasonably possible loss.   
   Summary       Putative or certified class action litigation and other litigation and claims and assessments against the Company, in addition to those discussed previously and those otherwise provided for in the
Company s consolidated financial statements, have arisen in the course of the Company s business, including, but not limited to, in connection with its activities as an insurer, mortgage lending bank, employer, investor, investment advisor
and taxpayer. Further, state insurance regulatory authorities and other federal and state authorities regularly make inquiries and conduct investigations concerning the Company s compliance with applicable insurance and other laws and
regulations.      It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of all pending investigations and legal
proceedings. In some of the matters referred to previously, very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, are sought. Although in light of these considerations it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain cases
could have a material effect upon the Company s financial position, based on information currently known by the Company s management, in its opinion, the outcomes of such pending investigations and legal proceedings are not likely to have
such an effect. However, given the large and/or indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time, have a
material effect on the Company s consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods.   
    Insolvency Assessments        Most of the jurisdictions in which the Company is admitted to transact business require insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay
contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate
share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer engaged. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. In
addition, Japan has established the Life Insurance Policyholders Protection Corporation of Japan as a contingency to protect policyholders against the insolvency of life insurance companies in Japan through assessments to companies licensed to
provide life insurance.      Assets and liabilities held for insolvency assessments were as follows:   

(1)  
    The Company holds a receivable from the seller of a prior acquisition in accordance with the purchase agreement.      

         377

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   On September 1, 2011, the New York State Department of Financial
Services filed a liquidation plan for Executive Life Insurance Company of New York ( ELNY ), which had been under rehabilitation by the Liquidation Bureau since 1991. The plan will involve the satisfaction of insurers  financial
obligations under a number of state life and health insurance guaranty associations and also contemplates that additional industry support for certain ELNY policyholders will be provided. The Company recorded a net charge of $40 million, after
tax, related to ELNY.        Argentina     
  The Argentine economic, regulatory and legal environment, including interpretations of laws and regulations by regulators
and courts, is uncertain. Potential legal or governmental actions related to pension reform, fiduciary responsibilities, performance guarantees, insurance regulations and tax rulings could adversely affect the results of the Company.   
  In 2007, pension reform legislation in Argentina was enacted which instituted substantial pension reforms, as well as
reforms to death and disability insurance coverage. The reform reinstituted the Argentine government s pension plan system and allowed for pension participants to transfer their future contributions to the Argentine government pension plan
system. The death and disability insurance reforms relieved the Company of its obligation to provide death and disability policy coverages and resulted in the elimination of related insurance liabilities.   
  In December 2008, the Argentine government, through adoption of the nationalization law, which nationalized the Social
Security System by moving all pension fund assets and new contributions to the government-run  pay as you go  system, effectively eliminated private pension companies in Argentina.   
  In March 2009, in light of market developments resulting from the Argentine Supreme Court ruling against the 2002
pesification law and the implementation by the Company of a program to allow the contractholders that had not filed a lawsuit to convert to U.S. dollars the social security annuity contracts denominated in pesos by the pesification law, the
Company reduced its related outstanding contingent liabilities by $108 million, net of income tax, which was partially offset by the establishment of contingent liabilities from the implementation of the program to convert these contracts to
U.S. dollars of $13 million, net of income tax, resulting in a decrease to net loss of $95 million, net of income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2009.   
  In February 2011, the Argentine Superintendent of Insurance ( SSN ) enacted Resolution No. 35,615, which
affects the reinsurance regulatory framework. From September 1, 2011, cross-border reinsurance operations were effectively prohibited, with some minor exceptions: Foreign reinsurers that have not set up an Argentine reinsurance subsidiary or
branch are only able to underwrite risks from Argentine cedants when, due to the importance and type of risk to be ceded, there is no local capacity and subject to the approval of the SSN (which will be granted on a case by case basis) and to the
registration of such foreign reinsurer with the SSN.      In October 2011, the SSN enacted Resolution
No. 36,162 which affects the Company s ability to invest and diversify abroad. From November 4, 2011, insurers will have a term of: (i) 10 business days to file with the SSN an affidavit, reporting all investments located abroad;
and (ii) 50 calendar days to evidence with the SSN the transfer to Argentina of all the investments and funds located abroad. All investments and funds must be located in Argentina no later than December 31, 2011. The Company was in
compliance with this resolution at December 31, 2011.      Further governmental or legal actions are possible
in Argentina. Such actions may impact the level of existing assets and liabilities or may create additional obligations or benefits to the Company s operations in Argentina.   
         378

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
Management has made its best estimate of its obligations based upon information currently available; however, further governmental or legal actions could result in changes in rights and
obligations which could materially impact the amounts presented in the consolidated financial statements.       Commitments
        Leases        In accordance with industry practice, certain of the Company s income from lease agreements with retail tenants are contingent upon the level of the tenants  revenues. Additionally, the Company,
as lessee, has entered into various lease and sublease agreements for office space, information technology and other equipment. Future minimum rental and sublease income, and minimum gross rental payments relating to these lease agreements are as
follows:           

The Company previously moved certain of its operations in New York from Long Island City, Queens to
Manhattan. Market conditions, which precluded the Company s immediate and complete sublet of all unused space following this movement of operations, resulted in a lease impairment charge of $52 million during 2009, which is included in other
expenses within Corporate   Other. The impairment charge was determined based upon the present value of the gross rental payments less sublease income discounted at a risk-adjusted rate over the remaining lease terms which range from
15-20 years. The Company has made assumptions with respect to the timing and amount of future sublease income in the determination of this impairment charge. See Note 19 for discussion of $28 million of such charges related to restructuring.
Additional impairment charges could be incurred should market conditions change.        Commitments to Fund Partnership
Investments        The Company makes commitments to fund partnership investments in the normal course of
business. The amounts of these unfunded commitments were $4.0 billion and $3.8 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company anticipates that these amounts will be invested in partnerships over the next five years.
       Mortgage Loan Commitments     
  The Company has issued interest rate lock commitments on certain residential mortgage loan applications totaling $5.6
billion and $2.5 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company intends to sell the majority of these originated residential mortgage loans. Interest rate lock commitments to fund mortgage loans that will be held-for-sale are
considered derivatives and their estimated fair value and notional amounts are included within interest rate forwards. See Note 4.      The Company also commits to lend funds under certain other mortgage loan commitments that will be held-for-investment. The amounts of these mortgage loan commitments were $4.1 billion and
$3.8 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
         379

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Commitments to Fund Bank Credit Facilities, Bridge Loans and Private
Corporate Bond Investments        The Company commits to lend funds under bank credit facilities, bridge
loans and private corporate bond investments. The amounts of these unfunded commitments were $1.4 billion and $2.4 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
   Guarantees       In the normal course of its business, the Company has provided certain indemnities, guarantees and commitments to third parties pursuant to which it may be required to make payments now or in the future.
In the context of acquisition, disposition, investment and other transactions, the Company has provided indemnities and guarantees, including those related to tax, environmental and other specific liabilities and other indemnities and guarantees
that are triggered by, among other things, breaches of representations, warranties or covenants provided by the Company. In addition, in the normal course of business, the Company provides indemnifications to counterparties in contracts with
triggers similar to the foregoing, as well as for certain other liabilities, such as third-party lawsuits. These obligations are often subject to time limitations that vary in duration, including contractual limitations and those that arise by
operation of law, such as applicable statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum potential obligation under the indemnities and guarantees is subject to a contractual limitation ranging from less than $1 million to $800 million,
with a cumulative maximum of $1.5 billion, while in other cases such limitations are not specified or applicable. Since certain of these obligations are not subject to limitations, the Company does not believe that it is possible to determine
the maximum potential amount that could become due under these guarantees in the future. Management believes that it is unlikely the Company will have to make any material payments under these indemnities, guarantees, or commitments.   
  In addition, the Company indemnifies its directors and officers as provided in its charters and by-laws. Also, the
Company indemnifies its agents for liabilities incurred as a result of their representation of the Company s interests. Since these indemnities are generally not subject to limitation with respect to duration or amount, the Company does not
believe that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that could become due under these indemnities in the future.      The Company has also guaranteed minimum investment returns on certain international retirement funds in accordance with local laws. Since these guarantees are not subject to limitation with respect to
duration or amount, the Company does not believe that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that could become due under these guarantees in the future.   
  During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company did not record any additional liabilities for indemnities,
guarantees and commitments. The Company s recorded liabilities were $5 million at both December 31, 2011 and 2010, for indemnities, guarantees and commitments.   
    17.  Employee Benefit Plans    
     Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans     
  The Subsidiaries sponsor and/or administer various U.S. qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension plans and
other postretirement employee benefit plans covering employees and sales representatives who meet specified eligibility requirements. U.S. pension benefits are provided utilizing either a traditional formula or cash balance formula. The traditional
formula provides benefits that are primarily based upon years of credited service and either final average or career average earnings. The cash balance formula utilizes hypothetical or notional accounts which credit participants with benefits equal
to a percentage of eligible pay, as well as earnings credits, determined annually based upon the average annual rate of interest on 30-year U.S. Treasury securities, for each   
         380

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
account balance. At December 31, 2011, the majority of active participants were accruing benefits under the cash balance formula; however, approximately 90% of the Subsidiaries 
obligations result from benefits calculated with the traditional formula. The U.S. non-qualified pension plans provide supplemental benefits in excess of limits applicable to a qualified plan. The non-U.S. pension plans generally provide benefits
based upon either years of credited service and earnings preceding-retirement or points earned on job grades and other factors in years of service.      The Subsidiaries also provide certain postemployment benefits and certain postretirement medical and life insurance benefits for retired employees. Employees of the Subsidiaries who were hired prior to
2003 (or, in certain cases, rehired during or after 2003) and meet age and service criteria while working for one of the Subsidiaries may become eligible for these other postretirement benefits, at various levels, in accordance with the applicable
plans. Virtually all retirees, or their beneficiaries, contribute a portion of the total costs of postretirement medical benefits. Employees hired after 2003 are not eligible for any employer subsidy for postretirement medical benefits.   
  In connection with the Acquisition, domestic American Life employees who became employees of certain Subsidiaries
(including those who remained employees of companies acquired in the Acquisition) were credited with service recognized by AIG for purposes of determining eligibility under the pension plans with respect to benefits earned under the pension plans
subsequent to the closing date of the Acquisition.      Additionally, in connection with the Acquisition, the
Company acquired certain defined benefit pension plans sponsored by American Life. As of December 31, 2010, these plans had liabilities of approximately $595 million and assets of approximately $97 million.   
  Measurement dates used for all of the Subsidiaries  defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans
correspond with the fiscal year ends of sponsoring Subsidiaries, which are December 31 for most Subsidiaries and November 30 for American Life.   
         381

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Obligations, Funded Status and Net Periodic Benefit Costs     

The accumulated benefit obligations for all U.S. defined benefit pension plans were $7.8 billion
and $6.7 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The accumulated benefit obligations for all non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans were $658 million and $610 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
  
         382

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The aggregate pension accumulated benefit obligation and aggregate fair
value of plan assets for pension benefit plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets was as follows:       

Information for pension and other postretirement benefit plans with a projected benefit obligation in
excess of plan assets were as follows:           

Net periodic pension costs and net periodic other postretirement benefit plan costs are comprised of
the following:       

i)  
    Service Costs   Service costs are the increase in the projected (expected) pension benefit obligation resulting from benefits payable to
employees of the Subsidiaries on service rendered during the current year.          

ii)  
    Interest Costs   Interest costs are the time value adjustment on the projected (expected) pension benefit obligation at the end of each
year.          

iii)  
    Settlement and Curtailment Costs   The aggregate amount of net gains (losses) recognized in net periodic benefit costs due to settlements
and curtailments. Settlements result from actions that relieve/eliminate the plan s responsibility for benefit obligations or risks associated with the obligations or assets used for the settlement. Curtailments result from an event that
significantly reduces/eliminates plan participants  expected years of future services or benefit accruals.          

iv)  
    Expected Return on Plan Assets   Expected return on plan assets is the assumed return earned by the accumulated pension and other
postretirement fund assets in a particular year.          

v)  
    Amortization of Net Actuarial Gains (Losses)   Actuarial gains and losses result from differences between the actual experience and the
expected experience on pension and other postretirement plan assets or projected (expected) pension benefit obligation during a particular period. These gains and losses are accumulated and, to the extent they exceed 10% of the greater of the PBO or
the fair value of plan assets, the excess is amortized into pension and other postretirement benefit costs over the expected service years of the employees.      

vi)  
    Amortization of Prior Service Costs (Credit)   These costs relate to the recognition of increases or decreases in pension and other
postretirement benefit obligation due to amendments in plans or      
         383

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

initiation of new plans. These increases or decreases in obligation are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at the time of the amendment. These costs are then amortized to
pension and other postretirement benefit costs over the expected service years of the employees affected by the change.         The components of net periodic benefit costs and other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows:   

For the year ended December 31, 2011, included within other comprehensive income (loss) were other
changes in plan assets and benefit obligations associated with pension benefits of $394 million for the U.S. plans and $34 million for the non-U.S. plans and other postretirement benefits of $327 million for the U.S. plans and $5 million
for the non-U.S. plans for an aggregate reduction in other comprehensive income (loss) of $760 million before income tax and $494 million, net of income tax.      The estimated net actuarial (gains) losses and prior service costs (credit) for the U.S. pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic benefit
costs over the next year are $178 million and $6 million, respectively.      The estimated net actuarial
(gains) losses and prior service costs (credit) for the U.S. defined benefit other postretirement benefit plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic benefit costs over the next year are
$54 million and ($104) million, respectively.   
         384

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 created various subsidies for all
U.S. sponsors of retiree drug programs. Two common ways of providing subsidies were the Retiree Drug Subsidy ( RDS ) and Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plans ( PDP ). From 2006 through 2010, the Company applied for and
received the RDS each year. The RDS program provides the subsidy through cash payments made by Medicare to the Company, resulting in smaller net claims paid by the Company. A summary of the reduction to the APBO and the related reduction to the
components of net periodic other postretirement benefits plan costs resulting from receipt of the RDS is presented below. As of January 1, 2011, as a result of changes made under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, the
Company, no longer applies for the RDS. Instead it has joined PDP and will indirectly receive Medicare subsidies in the form of smaller gross benefit payments for prescription drug coverage.   

The Company received subsidies of $3 million, $8 million and $12 million for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.        Assumptions     
   Assumptions used in determining benefit obligations were as
follows:       

(1)  
    Reflects those assumptions that were most appropriate for the local economic environments of each of the Subsidiaries providing such benefits.
     
         385

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Assumptions used in determining net periodic benefit costs were as
follows:       

(1)  
    Reflects those assumptions that were most appropriate for the local economic environments of each of the Subsidiaries providing such benefits.
     
   The weighted average discount rate for the U.S. plans is determined annually based on the yield,
measured on a yield to worst basis, of a hypothetical portfolio constructed of high quality debt instruments available on the valuation date, which would provide the necessary future cash flows to pay the aggregate projected benefit obligation when
due.      The weighted average discount rate for non-U.S. pension plans is based on the duration of liabilities on
a country by country basis. The rate was selected by reference to high quality corporate bonds in developed markets or local government bonds where markets were less robust or nonexistent.   
  The weighted average expected rate of return on plan assets for the U.S. plans is based on anticipated performance of the
various asset sectors in which the plans invest, weighted by target allocation percentages. Anticipated future performance is based on long-term historical returns of the plan assets by sector, adjusted for the Subsidiaries  long-term
expectations on the performance of the markets. While the precise expected rate of return derived using this approach will fluctuate from year to year, the policy of most of the Subsidiaries  is to hold this long-term assumption constant as
long as it remains within reasonable tolerance from the derived rate.      The weighted average expected long-term
rate of return for the non-U.S. pension plans is an aggregation of each country s expected rate of return within each asset class. For each country, the rate of return with respect to each asset class was developed based on a building block
approach that considers historical returns, current market conditions, asset volatility and the expectations for future market returns. While the assessment of the expected rate of return is long-term and not expected to change annually, significant
changes in investment strategy or economic conditions may warrant such a change. The expected rate of return within each asset class, together with any contributions made, are expected to maintain the plans  ability to meet all required benefit
obligations.      The weighted average expected rate of return on plan assets for use in that plan s
valuation in 2012 is currently anticipated to be 7.00% for U.S. pension benefits and 6.22% for U.S. other postretirement benefits. The weighted average expected rate of return on plan assets for use in that plan s valuation in 2012 is currently
anticipated to be 2.05% for non-U.S. pension benefits and 6.54% for non-U.S. other postretirement benefits.   
         386

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The assumed healthcare costs trend rates used in measuring the APBO and
net periodic benefit costs were as follows:           

Assumed healthcare costs trend rates may have a significant effect on the amounts reported for
healthcare plans. A 1% change in assumed healthcare costs trend rates would have the following effects:       

U.S. Plans   

Non-U.S. Plans   

One 
Percent     Increase   

One 
Percent     Decrease   

One 
Percent     Increase   

One 
Percent     Decrease   

(In millions)   

Effect on total of service and interest costs components   
     
  $  
  7  

$  
  (9  
  )   
     
  $  

$  

Effect of accumulated postretirement benefit obligations   
     
  $  
  195  

$  
  (160  
  )   
     
  $  
  1  

$  
  (1  
  )    
 
     Plan Assets        The pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets are categorized into the three-level fair value hierarchy, as defined in Note 1, based upon the priority of the inputs to the respective
valuation technique. The following summarizes the types of assets included within the three-level fair value hierarchy presented below.        

Level 1   
     
    This category includes investments in fixed maturity securities, equity securities, derivative securities, and short-term investments which have unadjusted
quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.    
 
        Level 2   
     
        This category includes certain separate
accounts that are primarily invested in liquid and readily marketable securities. The estimated fair value of such separate account is based upon reported NAV provided by fund managers and this value represents the amount at which transfers into and
out of the respective separate account are effected. These separate accounts provide reasonable levels of price transparency and can be corroborated through observable market data.    

Certain separate accounts are invested in
investment partnerships designated as hedge funds. The values for these separate accounts is determined monthly based on the NAV of the underlying hedge fund investment. Additionally, such hedge funds generally contain lock out or other waiting
period provisions for redemption requests to be filled. While the reporting and redemption restrictions may limit the frequency of trading activity in separate accounts invested in hedge funds, the reported NAV, and thus the referenced value of the
separate account, provides a reasonable level of price transparency that can be corroborated through observable market data.    

Directly held investments are primarily
invested in U.S. and foreign government and corporate securities.    
 
        Level 3   
     
        This category includes separate accounts that
are invested in fixed maturity securities, equity securities, pass-through securities, derivative securities, and other invested assets that provide little or no price transparency due to the infrequency with which the underlying assets trade and
generally require additional time to liquidate in an orderly manner. Accordingly, the values for separate accounts invested in these alternative asset classes are based on inputs that cannot be readily derived from or corroborated by observable
market data.    

387

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    U.S. Plans    
  Most U.S. Subsidiaries have issued group annuity and life insurance contracts supporting the pension and other
postretirement benefit plans assets, which are invested primarily in separate accounts.      The underlying assets
of the separate accounts are principally comprised of cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, fixed maturity and equity securities, mutual funds, real estate, private equity investments and hedge funds investments.   
  The pension and postretirement plan assets and liabilities measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis were
determined as described below. These estimated fair values and their corresponding placement in the fair value hierarchy are summarized as follows:       

388

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

389

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   A rollforward of all pension and other postretirement benefit plan
assets measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs was as follows:       

390

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3)   

Pension Benefits   

Other Postretirement Benefits   

Fixed
Maturity     Securities:   

Equity     Securities:   

Pass-     Through     Securities   

Other     Invested   
  Assets   

Fixed Maturity Securities:   

Pass-     Through     Securities   

Corporate   

Foreign     Bonds   

Common     Stock     Domestic   

Corporate   

Municipals   

(In millions)   

Year Ended December 31, 2010:    

Balance, January 1,   
     
  $  
  68  

$  
  5  

$  
  241  

$  
  69  

$  
  373  

$  

$  

$  
  9  

Total realized/unrealized gains (losses) included in:   

Earnings:   

Net investment income   

Net investment gains (losses)   

(11  
  )   

78  

(4  
  )    
 
    Net derivative gains (losses)   

Other revenues   

Policyholder benefits and claims   

Other expenses   

Other comprehensive income (loss)   

7  

1  

(2  
  )   

14  

(4  
  )   

1  

1  

Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements   

(17  
  )   

(2  
  )   

1  

(71  
  )   

24  

(1  
  )    
 
    Transfers into Level 3   

4  

2  

3  

1  

1  

Transfers out of Level 3   

(13  
  )   

(1  
  )   

Balance, December 31,   
     
  $  
  49  

$  
  4  

$  
  240  

$  
  2  

$  
  471  

$  
  4  

$  
  1  

$  
  6  

391

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

See Note 5 for further information about the valuation techniques and inputs by level of major assets
of invested assets that affect the amounts reported above.      The U.S. Subsidiaries provide employees with
benefits under various ERISA benefit plans. These include qualified pension plans, postretirement medical plans and certain retiree life insurance coverage. The assets of the U.S. Subsidiaries  qualified pension plans are held in insurance
group annuity contracts, and the vast majority of the assets of the postretirement medical plan and backing the retiree life coverage are held in insurance contracts. All of these contracts are issued by Company insurance affiliates, and the assets
under the contracts are held in insurance separate accounts that have been established by the Company. The insurance contract provider engages investment management firms ( Managers ) to serve as sub-advisors for the separate accounts
based on the specific investment needs and requests identified by the plan fiduciary. These Managers have portfolio management discretion over the purchasing and selling of securities and other investment assets pursuant to the respective investment
management agreements and guidelines established for each insurance separate account. The assets of the qualified pension plans and postretirement medical plans (the  Invested Plans ) are well diversified across multiple asset categories
and across a number of different Managers, with the intent of minimizing risk concentrations within any given asset category or with any given Manager.      The Invested Plans, other than those held in participant directed investment accounts, are managed in accordance with investment policies consistent with the longer-term nature of related benefit
obligations and within prudent risk parameters. Specifically, investment policies are oriented toward (i) maximizing the Invested Plan s funded status; (ii) minimizing the volatility of the Invested Plan s funded status;
(iii) generating asset returns that exceed liability increases; and (iv) targeting rates of return in excess of a custom benchmark and industry standards over appropriate reference time periods. These goals are expected to be met through
identifying appropriate and diversified asset classes and allocations, ensuring adequate liquidity to pay benefits and expenses when due and controlling the costs of administering and managing the Invested Plan s investments. Independent
investment consultants are periodically used to evaluate the investment risk of Invested Plan s assets relative to liabilities, analyze the economic and portfolio impact of various asset allocations and management strategies and to recommend
asset allocations.   
         392

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Derivative contracts may be used to reduce investment risk, to manage
duration and to replicate the risk/return profile of an asset or asset class. Derivatives may not be used to leverage a portfolio in any manner, such as to magnify exposure to an asset, asset class, interest rates or any other financial variable.
Derivatives are also prohibited for use in creating exposures to securities, currencies, indices or any other financial variable that are otherwise restricted.      The table below summarizes the actual weighted average allocation of the fair value of total plan assets by asset class at December 31 for the years indicated and the approved target range allocation
by major asset class as of December 31, 2011 for the Invested Plans:           

393

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Non-U.S. Plans    
  The pension and postretirement plan assets and liabilities measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis were
determined as described below. These estimated fair values and their corresponding placement in the fair value hierarchy are summarized as follows:       

December 31, 2011   

Pension Benefits   

Other Postretirement Benefits   

Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using   

Total Estimated Fair Value   

Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using   

Total Estimated Fair Value   

Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets 
and Liabilities (Level 1)   

Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level 2)   

Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3)   

Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets 
and Liabilities (Level 1)   

Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level 2)   

Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3)   

(In millions)   

Assets:    

Fixed maturity securities:   

Foreign bonds   
     
  $  

$  
  96  

$  

$  
  96  

$  

$  
  13  

$  

$  
  13  

Total fixed maturity securities   

96  

96  

13  

13  

Equity securities:   

Common stock - foreign   

43  

43  

Total equity securities   

43  

43  

Derivative securities   

13  

13  

Short-term investments   

6  

6  

Other invested assets   

19  

19  

Real estate   

8  

8  

Total assets   
     
  $  
  19  

$  
  145  

$  
  21  

$  
  185  

$  

$  
  13  

$  

$  
  13  

394

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

December 31, 2010   

Pension Benefits   

Other Postretirement Benefits   

Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using   

Total Estimated Fair Value   

Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using   

Total Estimated Fair Value   

Quoted Prices In Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level 1)   

Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level 2)   

Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3)   

Quoted Prices In Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level 1)   

Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level 2)   

Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3)   

(In millions)   

Assets:    

Fixed maturity securities:   

Foreign bonds   
     
  $  
  1  

$  
  79  

$  

$  
  80  

$  

$  
  15  

$  

$  
  15  

Total fixed maturity securities   

1  

79  

80  

15  

15  

Equity securities:   

Common stock - domestic   

4  

4  

Common stock - foreign   

8  

35  

43  

Total equity securities   

12  

35  

47  

Money market securities   

10  

10  

Derivative securities   

11  

11  

Short-term investments   

2  

4  

6  

Other invested assets   

16  

16  

Real estate   

8  

8  

Total assets   
     
  $  
  31  

$  
  128  

$  
  19  

$  
  178  

$  

$  
  15  

$  

$  
  15  

395

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   A rollforward of all pension and other postretirement benefit plan
assets measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs was as follows:       

Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 
3)   

Pension Benefits   

Derivative Securities   

Real Estate   

(In millions)   

Year Ended December 31, 2011:    

Balance, January 1,   
     
  $  
  11  

$  
  8  

Total realized/unrealized gains (losses) included in:   

Earnings:   

Net investment income   

Net investment gains (losses)   

Net derivative gains (losses)   

Other revenues   

Policyholder benefits and claims   

Other expenses   

Other comprehensive income (loss)   

2  

Purchases   

Sales   

Issuances   

Settlements   

Transfers into Level 3   

Transfers out of Level 3   

Balance, December 31,   
     
  $  
  13  

$  
  8  

396

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 
3)   

Pension Benefits   

Derivative Securities (1)   

Real Estate (1)   

(In millions)   

Year Ended December 31, 2010:    

Balance, January 1,   
     
  $  

$  

Total realized/unrealized gains (losses) included in:   

Earnings:   

Net investment income   

Net investment gains (losses)   

Net derivative gains (losses)   

3  

Other revenues   

Policyholder benefits and claims   

Other expenses   

Other comprehensive income (loss)   

(3  
  )   

Purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements   

(1  
  )   

Transfers into Level 3   

12  

8  

Transfers out of Level 3   

Balance, December 31,   
     
  $  
  11  

$  
  8  

(1)  
    Derivative securities and real estate transfers into Level 3 are due to the Acquisition and are not related to the changes in Level 3
classification at the security level.      
   Certain non-U.S. Subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit plans that cover employees and sales
representatives who meet specified eligibility requirements. Pension benefits are provided utilizing either a traditional formula or cash balance formula, similar to the U.S. plans discussed above. The investment objectives are also similar,
subject to local regulations. Generally, these international pension plans invest directly in high quality equity and fixed maturity securities. The assets of the non-U.S. pension plans are comprised of cash and cash equivalents, equity and fixed
maturity securities, real estate and hedge fund investments.      The assets of the non-U.S. pension plans, other
than those held in participant directed investment accounts, are managed in accordance with investment policies consistent with the longer-term nature of related benefit obligations and within prudent risk parameters. Specifically, investment
policies are oriented toward (i) maximizing the assets of the non-U.S. pension plans funded status; (ii) minimizing the volatility of the assets of the non-U.S. pension plans funded status; (iii) generating asset returns that exceed
liability increases; and (iv) targeting rates of return in excess of a custom benchmark and industry standards over appropriate reference time periods. These goals are expected to be met through identifying appropriate and diversified asset
classes and allocations, ensuring adequate liquidity to pay benefits and expenses when due and controlling the costs of administering and managing the non-U.S. pension plans  investments. Independent investment consultants are periodically used
to evaluate the investment risk of the non-U.S. pension plans  assets relative to liabilities, analyze the economic and portfolio impact of various asset allocations and management strategies and recommend asset allocations.   
  Derivative contracts may be used to reduce investment risk, to manage duration and to replicate the risk/return profile
of an asset or asset class. Derivatives may not be used to leverage a portfolio in any manner, such as to magnify exposure to an asset, asset class, interest rates or any other financial variable. Derivatives are also prohibited for use in creating
exposures to securities, currencies, indices or any other financial variable that are otherwise restricted.   
         397

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The table below summarizes the actual weighted average allocation of the
fair value of total plan assets by asset class at December 31 for the years indicated and the approved target allocation by major asset class as of December 31, 2011 for the plans:   

Expected Future Contributions and Benefit Payments     
  It is the Subsidiaries  practice to make contributions to the U.S. qualified pension plan to comply with minimum
funding requirements of ERISA. In accordance with such practice, no contributions were required for 2012. The Subsidiaries expect to make discretionary contributions to the qualified pension plan of $205 million in 2012. For information on
employer contributions, see    Obligations, Funded Status and Net Periodic Benefit Costs.    
  Benefit payments due under the U.S. non-qualified pension plans are primarily funded from the Subsidiaries  general
assets as they become due under the provision of the plans, therefore benefit payments equal employer contributions. The U.S. Subsidiaries expect to make contributions of $88 million to fund the benefit payments in 2012.   
  U.S. and non-U.S. postretirement benefits are either: (i) not vested under law; (ii) a non-funded obligation of
the Subsidiaries; or (iii) both. Current regulations do not require funding for these benefits. The Subsidiaries use their general assets, net of participant s contributions, to pay postretirement medical claims as they come due in lieu of
utilizing any plan assets. The U.S. Subsidiaries expect to make contributions of $75 million towards benefit obligations in 2012 to pay postretirement medical claims.   
  As noted previously, the Subsidiaries no longer expect to receive the RDS under the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 to
partially offset payment of such benefits. Instead, the gross benefit payments that will be made under the PDP will already reflect subsidies.   
         398

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Gross benefit payments for the next 10 years, which reflect expected
future service where appropriate, are expected to be as follows:           

Additional Information     
  As previously discussed, most of the assets of the U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans are held in group
annuity and life insurance contracts issued by the Subsidiaries. Total revenues from these contracts recognized in the consolidated statements of operations were $47 million, $46 million and $45 million for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and included policy charges and net investment income from investments backing the contracts and administrative fees. Total investment income (loss), including realized and unrealized gains
(losses), credited to the account balances was $885 million, $767 million and $725 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The terms of these contracts are consistent in all material respects with
those the Subsidiaries offer to unaffiliated parties that are similarly situated.        Savings and Investment Plans
       The Subsidiaries sponsor the U.S. savings and investment plans for substantially all Company
employees under which a portion of employee contributions are matched. The Subsidiaries contributed $95 million, $86 million and $93 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
    18.  Equity    
     Preferred Stock     
  There are 200,000,000 authorized shares of preferred stock, of which 6,857,000 shares were designated for issuance of
convertible preferred stock in connection with the financing of the Acquisition in 2010. See    Convertible Preferred Stock  below.      MetLife, Inc. has outstanding 24 million shares of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (the  Series A preferred shares ) with a $0.01 par value per share,
and a liquidation preference of $25 per share.      MetLife, Inc. has outstanding 60 million shares of 6.50%
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B (the  Series B preferred shares ), with a $0.01 par value per share, and a liquidation preference of $25 per share.   
  The Preferred Stock ranks senior to the common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation rights. Dividends on the
Preferred Stock are not cumulative. Holders of the Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive dividend payments only when, as and if declared by MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board. If dividends are
declared on the Series A preferred shares, they will be payable quarterly, in arrears, at an annual rate of the greater of: (i) 1.00% above three-month LIBOR on the related   
         399

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
LIBOR determination date; or (ii) 4.00%. Any dividends declared on the Series B preferred shares will be payable quarterly, in arrears, at an annual fixed rate of 6.50%. Accordingly, in
the event that dividends are not declared on the Preferred Stock for payment on any dividend payment date, then those dividends will cease to accrue and be payable. If a dividend is not declared before the dividend payment date, MetLife, Inc. has no
obligation to pay dividends accrued for that dividend period whether or not dividends are declared and paid in future periods. No dividends may, however, be paid or declared on MetLife, Inc. s common stock   or any other securities
ranking junior to the Preferred Stock   unless the full dividends for the latest completed dividend period on all Preferred Stock, and any parity stock, have been declared and paid or provided for.   
  MetLife, Inc. is prohibited from declaring dividends on the Preferred Stock if it fails to meet specified capital
adequacy, net income and equity levels. In addition, under Federal Reserve Board policy, MetLife, Inc. may not be able to pay dividends if it does not earn sufficient operating income.   
  The Preferred Stock does not have voting rights except in certain circumstances where the dividends have not been paid
for an equivalent of six or more dividend payment periods whether or not those periods are consecutive. Under such circumstances, the holders of the Preferred Stock have certain voting rights with respect to members of the Board of Directors of
MetLife, Inc.      The Preferred Stock is not subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund, retirement fund,
purchase fund or similar provisions. The Preferred Stock is redeemable at MetLife, Inc. s option in whole or in part, at a redemption price of $25 per share of Preferred Stock, plus declared and unpaid dividends.   
  In December 2008, MetLife, Inc. entered into an RCC related to the Preferred Stock. As part of such RCC, MetLife, Inc.
agreed that it will not repay, redeem or purchase the Preferred Shares on or before December 31, 2018, unless, subject to certain limitations, it has received proceeds during a specified period from the sale of specified replacement securities.
The RCC is for the benefit of the holders of the related Covered Debt, which was initially the Senior Notes. As a result of the issuance of the 10.750% JSDs, the 10.750% JSDs became the Covered Debt with respect to, and in accordance with, the terms
of the RCC relating to the Preferred Shares. The RCC will terminate upon the occurrence of certain events, including the date on which MetLife, Inc. has no series of outstanding eligible debt securities.   
         400

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Information on the declaration, record and payment dates, as well as per
share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the Preferred Shares was as follows:           

See Note 24 for information on subsequent dividends declared.   
    Convertible Preferred Stock        In connection with the financing of the Acquisition in November 2010, MetLife, Inc. issued to AM Holdings 6,857,000 shares of convertible preferred stock with a $0.01 par value per share, a
liquidation preference of $0.01 per share and a fair value of $2.8 billion. On March 8, 2011, MetLife, Inc. repurchased and canceled all of the convertible preferred stock for $3.0 billion in cash, which resulted in a preferred stock
redemption premium of $146 million. See Note 2.      For purposes of the earnings per common share calculation,
for the year ended December 31, 2010, the convertible preferred stock was assumed converted into shares of common stock for both basic and diluted weighted average common shares. See Note 20.   
    Common Stock         Issuances       In March 2011, MetLife, Inc. issued 68,570,000
new shares of its common stock in a public offering at a price of $43.25 per share for gross proceeds of $3.0 billion. In connection with the offering of common stock, MetLife, Inc. incurred $16 million of issuance costs which have been recorded as
a reduction of additional paid-in capital. The proceeds were used to repurchase the convertible preferred stock issued to AM Holdings in November 2010. See Note 2.   
  In November 2010, MetLife, Inc. issued to AM Holdings in connection with the financing of the Acquisition 78,239,712 new
shares of its common stock at $40.90 per share with a fair value of $3.2 billion.   
         401

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   In August 2010, MetLife, Inc. issued 86,250,000 new shares of its common
stock at a price of $42.00 per share for gross proceeds of $3.6 billion. In connection with the offering of common stock, MetLife, Inc. incurred $94 million of issuance costs which have been recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in
capital.      In February 2009, MetLife, Inc. delivered 24,343,154 shares of newly issued common stock for
$1.0 billion. The issuance was made in connection with the initial settlement of stock purchase contracts issued as part of common equity units sold in 2005.   
  During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, 3,549,211 and 2,182,174 new shares of common stock were issued
for $115 million and $74 million, respectively, to satisfy various stock option exercises and other stock-based awards. There were no new shares of common stock issued to satisfy the various stock option exercises and other stock-based awards
during the year ended December 31, 2009. There were no shares of common stock issued from treasury stock during the year ended December 31, 2011. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, 332,121 shares and
861,586 shares of common stock were issued from treasury stock for $18 million and $46 million, respectively, to satisfy various stock option exercises and other stock-based awards.   
   Repurchase Programs       At December 31, 2011, MetLife, Inc. had $1.3 billion remaining under its common stock repurchase program authorizations. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, MetLife, Inc.
did not repurchase any shares.      Under these authorizations, MetLife, Inc. may purchase its common stock from
the MetLife Policyholder Trust, in the open market (including pursuant to the terms of a pre-set trading plan meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) and in privately negotiated transactions. Any
future common stock repurchases will be dependent upon several factors, including the Company s capital position, its liquidity, its financial strength and credit ratings, general market conditions and the market price of MetLife, Inc. s
common stock compared to management s assessment of the stock s underlying value and applicable regulatory approvals, as well as other legal and accounting factors.       Dividends       The table below presents declaration, record
and payment dates, as well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the common stock:           

(1)  
    Includes dividends on convertible preferred stock (see    Convertible Preferred Stock  above).      
     Stock-Based Compensation Plans         Description of Plans for Employees and Agents   General Terms       The MetLife, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the  2000 Stock Plan ) authorized the granting of awards to employees and agents in the form of options to buy shares of MetLife, Inc.
common stock ( Stock   
         402

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
Options ) that either qualify as incentive Stock Options under Section 422A of the Code or are non-qualified. By December 31, 2009 all awards under the 2000 Stock Plan had either
vested or been forfeited. No awards have been made under the 2000 Stock Plan since 2005.      Under the MetLife,
Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  2005 Stock Plan ), awards granted to employees and agents may be in the form of Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares
or Performance Share Units, Cash-Based Awards and Stock-Based Awards (each as defined in the 2005 Stock Plan with reference to MetLife, Inc. common stock).      The aggregate number of shares authorized for issuance under the 2005 Stock Plan is 68,000,000, plus those shares available but not utilized under the 2000 Stock Plan and those shares utilized under the
2000 Stock Plan that are recovered due to forfeiture of Stock Options. Each share issued under the 2005 Stock Plan in connection with a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right reduces the number of shares remaining for issuance under that plan by
one, and each share issued under the 2005 Stock Plan in connection with awards other than Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights reduces the number of shares remaining for issuance under that plan by 1.179 shares. At December 31, 2011,
the aggregate number of shares remaining available for issuance pursuant to the 2005 Stock Plan was 31,803,801. Stock Option exercises and other awards settled in shares are satisfied through the issuance of shares held in treasury by the Company or
by the issuance of new shares.      Compensation expense related to awards under the 2005 Stock Plan is recognized
based on the number of awards expected to vest, which represents the awards granted less expected forfeitures over the life of the award, as estimated at the date of grant. Unless a material deviation from the assumed forfeiture rate is observed
during the term in which the awards are expensed, any adjustment necessary to reflect differences in actual experience is recognized in the period the award becomes payable or exercisable.   
  Compensation expense related to awards under the 2005 Stock Plan is principally related to the issuance of Stock Options,
Performance Shares and Restricted Stock Units. The majority of the awards granted each year under the 2005 Stock Plan are made in the first quarter of each year.   
  Certain stock-based awards provide solely for cash settlement based on changes in the price of MetLife, Inc. common stock
and other factors ( Phantom Stock-Based Awards ). Such awards are made under the MetLife, Inc. International Unit Option Incentive Plan, the MetLife International Performance Unit Incentive Plan, and the MetLife International Restricted
Unit Incentive Plan.       Description of Plans for Directors   General Terms    
  The MetLife, Inc. 2000 Directors Stock Plan, as amended (the  2000 Directors Stock Plan ) authorized
the granting of awards in the form of MetLife, Inc. common stock, non-qualified Stock Options, or a combination of the foregoing to non-management Directors of MetLife, Inc. As of December 31, 2009, all awards under the 2000 Directors
Stock Plan had either vested or been forfeited. No awards have been made under the 2000 Directors Stock Plan since 2004.      Under the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Non-Management Director Stock Compensation Plan (the  2005 Directors Stock Plan ), awards granted may be in the form of non-qualified Stock Options, Stock
Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, or Stock-Based Awards (each as defined in the 2005 Directors Stock Plan with reference to MetLife, Inc. common stock) to non-management Directors of MetLife, Inc. The number
of shares authorized for issuance under the 2005 Directors Stock Plan is 2,000,000. There were no shares carried forward from the 2000 Directors Stock Plan to the 2005 Directors Stock Plan. At December 31, 2011, the aggregate
number of shares remaining available for issuance pursuant to the 2005 Directors Stock Plan was 1,777,288. Stock Option exercises and other awards settled in shares are satisfied through the issuance of shares held in treasury by the Company or
by the issuance of new shares.   
         403

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Compensation expense related to awards under the 2005 Directors
Plan is recognized based on the number of shares awarded. The Stock-Based Awards granted under the 2005 Directors Plan have vested immediately. The majority of the awards granted each year under the 2005 Directors Stock Plan are made in
the second quarter of each year.       Compensation Expense Related to Stock-Based Compensation    
  The components of compensation expense related to stock-based compensation which includes compensation expense related to
Phantom Stock-Based Awards, and excludes the insignificant compensation expense related to the 2005 Directors Stock Plan, were as follows:       

(1)  
    Performance Shares expected to vest and the related compensation expenses may be further adjusted by the performance factor most likely to be
achieved, as estimated by management, at the end of the performance period.      
   The following table presents the total unrecognized compensation expense related to stock-based
compensation and the expected weighted average period over which these expenses will be recognized at:       

Stock Options       Stock Options are the contingent right of award holders to purchase shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock at a stated price for a limited time. All Stock Options have an exercise price equal to the closing
price of MetLife, Inc. common stock reported on the NYSE on the date of grant, and have a maximum term of 10 years. The vast majority of Stock Options granted have become or will become exercisable at a rate of one-third of each award on each of the
first three anniversaries of the grant date. Other Stock Options have become or will become exercisable on the third anniversary of the grant date. Vesting is subject to continued service, except for employees who are retirement eligible and in
certain other limited circumstances.   
         404

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   A summary of the activity related to Stock Options for the year ended
December 31, 2011 was as follows:           

(2)  
    The total fair value on the date of the grant was $78 million.      
   The fair value of Stock Options is estimated on the date of grant using a binomial lattice model.
Significant assumptions used in the Company s binomial lattice model, which are further described below, include: expected volatility of the price of MetLife, Inc. common stock; risk-free rate of return; expected dividend yield on MetLife, Inc.
common stock; exercise multiple; and the post-vesting termination rate.      Expected volatility is based upon an
analysis of historical prices of MetLife, Inc. common stock and call options on that common stock traded on the open market. The Company uses a weighted-average of the implied volatility for publicly-traded call options with the longest remaining
maturity nearest to the money as of each valuation date and the historical volatility, calculated using monthly closing prices of MetLife, Inc. s common stock. The Company chose a monthly measurement interval for historical volatility as it
believes this better depicts the nature of employee option exercise decisions being based on longer-term trends in the price of the underlying shares rather than on daily price movements.   
  The binomial lattice model used by the Company incorporates different risk-free rates based on the imputed forward rates
for U.S. Treasury Strips for each year over the contractual term of the option. The table below presents the full range of rates that were used for options granted during the respective periods.   
  Dividend yield is determined based on historical dividend distributions compared to the price of the underlying common
stock as of the valuation date and held constant over the life of the Stock Option.      The binomial lattice
model used by the Company incorporates the contractual term of the Stock Options and then factors in expected exercise behavior and a post-vesting termination rate, or the rate at which vested options are exercised or expire prematurely due to
termination of employment, to derive an expected life. Exercise behavior in the binomial lattice model used by the Company is expressed using an exercise multiple, which reflects the ratio of exercise price to the strike price of Stock Options
granted at which holders of the Stock Options are expected to exercise. The exercise multiple is derived from actual historical exercise activity. The post-vesting termination rate is determined from actual historical exercise experience and
expiration activity under the Incentive Plans.   
         405

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The following table presents the weighted average assumptions, with the
exception of risk-free rate, which is expressed as a range, used to determine the fair value of Stock Options issued:       

The following table presents a summary of Stock Option exercise activity:   

Performance Shares       Performance Shares are units that, if they vest, are multiplied by a performance factor to produce a number of final Performance Shares which are payable in shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock.
Performance Shares are accounted for as equity awards, but are not credited with dividend-equivalents for actual dividends paid on MetLife, Inc. common stock during the performance period. Accordingly, the estimated fair value of Performance Shares
is based upon the closing price of MetLife, Inc. common stock on the date of grant, reduced by the present value of estimated dividends to be paid on that stock during the performance period.   
  Performance Share awards normally vest in their entirety at the end of the three-year performance period. Vesting is
subject to continued service, except for employees who are retirement eligible and in certain other limited circumstances. Vested Performance Shares are multiplied by a performance factor of 0.0 to 2.0 based largely on MetLife, Inc. s
performance in change in annual net operating earnings and total shareholder return over the applicable three-year performance period compared to the performance of its competitors. The performance factor was 0.90 for the January 1,
2008   December 31, 2010 performance period.   
         406

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The following table presents a summary of Performance Share activity for
the year ended December 31, 2011:           

(1)  
    The total fair value on the date of the grant was $76 million.      

(2)  
    Includes both shares paid and shares deferred for later payment.      
   Performance Share amounts above represent aggregate initial target awards and do not reflect potential
increases or decreases resulting from the performance factor determined after the end of the respective performance periods. At December 31, 2011, the three year performance period for the 2009 Performance Share grants was completed, but the
performance factor had not yet been calculated. Included in the immediately preceding table are 1,791,609 outstanding Performance Shares to which the 2009-2011 performance factor will be applied.   
   Restricted Stock Units       Restricted Stock Units are units that, if they vest, are payable in shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock. Restricted Stock Units are accounted for as equity awards, but are not credited with
dividend-equivalents for actual dividends paid on MetLife, Inc. common stock during the performance period. Accordingly, the estimated fair value of Restricted Stock Units is based upon the closing price of MetLife, Inc. common stock on the date of
grant, reduced by the present value of estimated dividends to be paid on that stock during the performance period.      The vast majority of Restricted Stock Units normally vest in their entirety on the third anniversary of their grant date. Other Restricted Stock Units normally vest in their entirety on the fifth
anniversary of their grant date. Vesting is subject to continued service, except for employees who are retirement eligible and in certain other limited circumstances.   
  The following table presents a summary of Restricted Stock Unit activity for the year ended December 31, 2011:

407

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)  
    The total fair value on the date of the grant was $31 million.      

(2)  
    Includes both shares paid and shares deferred for later payment.      
    Liability Awards (Phantom Stock-Based Awards)    
  Certain MetLife international subsidiaries have granted Phantom Stock-Based Awards in the form of Unit Options,
Restricted Units, and Performance Units. These share-based cash settled awards are recorded as liabilities until payout is made. Unlike share-settled awards, which have a fixed grant-date fair value, the fair value of unsettled or unvested liability
awards is remeasured at the end of each reporting period based on the change in fair value of one share of MetLife, Inc. common stock. The liability and corresponding expense are adjusted accordingly until the award is settled.   
   Unit Options.       Each Unit Option is the contingent right of the holders to receive a cash payment equal to the closing price of one share of MetLife, Inc. common stock on the surrender date, less the closing price on the
grant date, if the difference is greater than zero. The vast majority of Unit Options have become or will become eligible for surrender at a rate of one-third of each award on each of the first three anniversaries of the grant date. Other Unit
Options have become or will become eligible for surrender on the third anniversary of the grant date. Vesting is subject to continued service, except for employees who are retirement eligible and in certain other limited circumstances.   
   Restricted Units.       Restricted Units are units that, if they vest, are payable in cash equal to the closing price of MetLife, Inc. common stock on the last day of the restriction period. The vast majority of Restricted Units
normally vest in their entirety on the third anniversary of their grant date. Vesting is subject to continued service, except for employees who are retirement eligible and in certain other limited circumstances.   
   Performance Units.       Performance Units are units that, if they vest, are multiplied by a performance factor to produce a number of final Performance Units which are payable in cash equal to the closing price of MetLife, Inc.
common stock on a date following the last day of the three-year performance period. Performance Units are accounted for as liability awards, but are not credited with dividend-equivalents for actual dividends paid on MetLife, Inc. common stock
during the performance period. Accordingly, the estimated fair value of Performance Units is based upon the closing price of MetLife, Inc. common stock on the date of grant, reduced by the present value of estimated dividends to be paid on that
stock during the performance period.      Performance Units normally vest in their entirety at the end of the
three-year performance period. Vesting is subject to continued service, except for employees who are retirement eligible and in certain other limited circumstances. Vested Performance Units are multiplied by a performance factor of 0.0 to 2.0 based
largely on MetLife, Inc. s performance in change in annual net operating earnings and total shareholder return over the applicable three-year performance period compared to the performance of its competitors.   
         408

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The following table presents a summary of Liability Award activity for
the year ended December 31, 2011:           

Statutory Equity and Income     
  Except for American Life, each insurance company s state of domicile imposes minimum risk-based capital
( RBC ) requirements that were developed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ). The formulas for determining the amount of RBC specify various weighting factors that are applied to financial balances or
various levels of activity based on the perceived degree of risk. Regulatory compliance is determined by a ratio of total adjusted capital, as defined by the NAIC, to authorized control level RBC, as defined by the NAIC. Companies below
specific trigger points or ratios are classified within certain levels, each of which requires specified corrective action. Each of MetLife, Inc. s U.S. insurance subsidiaries exceeded the minimum RBC requirements for all periods presented
herein.      American Life does not write business in Delaware or any other domestic state and, as such, is exempt
from RBC by Delaware law. American Life operations are regulated by applicable authorities of the countries in which the company operates and are subject to capital and solvency requirements in those countries.   
  The NAIC has adopted the Codification of Statutory Accounting Principles ( Statutory Codification ). Statutory
Codification is intended to standardize regulatory accounting and reporting to state insurance departments. However, statutory accounting principles continue to be established by individual state laws and permitted practices. Modifications by the
various state insurance departments may impact the effect of Statutory Codification on the statutory capital and surplus of MetLife, Inc. s U.S. insurance subsidiaries.   
  Statutory accounting principles differ from GAAP primarily by charging policy acquisition costs to expense as incurred,
establishing future policy benefit liabilities using different actuarial assumptions, reporting surplus notes as surplus instead of debt and valuing securities on a different basis.   
  In addition, certain assets are not admitted under statutory accounting principles and are charged directly to surplus.
The most significant assets not admitted by the Company are net deferred income tax assets resulting from temporary differences between statutory accounting principles basis and tax basis not expected to reverse and become recoverable within three
years. Further, statutory accounting principles do not give recognition to purchase accounting adjustments.   
         409

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

   Statutory net income (loss) (unaudited) was as follows:

(1)  
    Represents approximate statutory net income (loss) (unaudited).      
  Statutory capital and surplus (unaudited) was as follows at:   

(1)  
    Represents approximate statutory capital and surplus (unaudited).      
     Dividend Restrictions     
  The table below sets forth the dividends permitted to be paid by the respective insurance subsidiary without insurance
regulatory approval and the respective dividends paid:           

(1)  
    Reflects dividend amounts that may be paid during 2012 without prior regulatory approval. However, because dividend tests may be based on dividends
previously paid over rolling 12-month periods, if paid before a specified date during 2012, some or all of such dividends may require regulatory approval.      
         410

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(2)  
    All amounts paid, including those requiring regulatory approval.      

(3)  
    Reflects dividend amounts that could have been paid during the relevant year without prior regulatory approval.      

(5)  
    Reflects approximate dividend amounts permitted to be paid without prior regulatory approval.      

(6)  
    Reflects the respective dividends paid since the Acquisition Date. See Note 2.      

(7)  
    Includes shares of an affiliate distributed to MetLife, Inc. as an in-kind dividend of $475 million.      
   Under New York State Insurance Law, MLIC is permitted, without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to
pay stockholder dividends to MetLife, Inc. as long as the aggregate amount of all such dividends in any calendar year does not exceed the lesser of: (i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as of the end of the immediately preceding calendar
year; or (ii) its statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year (excluding realized capital gains). MLIC will be permitted to pay a dividend to MetLife, Inc. in excess of the lesser of such two amounts only if
it files notice of its intention to declare such a dividend and the amount thereof with the Superintendent and the Superintendent does not disapprove the dividend within 30 days of its filing. Under New York State Insurance Law, the
Superintendent has broad discretion in determining whether the financial condition of a stock life insurance company would support the payment of such dividends to its shareholders.   
  Under Delaware State Insurance Law, each of American Life, DelAm and MTL is permitted, without prior insurance regulatory
clearance, to pay a stockholder dividend to MetLife, Inc. as long as the amount of the dividend when aggregated with all other dividends in the preceding 12 months does not exceed the greater of: (i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as
of the end of the immediately preceding calendar year; or (ii) its statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year (excluding realized capital gains). Each of American Life, DelAm and MTL will be permitted to pay
a dividend to MetLife, Inc. in excess of the greater of such two amounts only if it files notice of the declaration of such a dividend and the amount thereof with the Delaware Commissioner of Insurance (the  Delaware Commissioner ) and the
Delaware Commissioner either approves the distribution of the dividend or does not disapprove the distribution within 30 days of its filing. In addition, any dividend that exceeds earned surplus (defined as unassigned funds) as of the last
filed annual statutory statement requires insurance regulatory approval. Under Delaware State Insurance Law, the Delaware Commissioner has broad discretion in determining whether the financial condition of a stock life insurance company would
support the payment of such dividends to its shareholders.      Under Connecticut State Insurance Law, MICC is
permitted, without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay stockholder dividends to its stockholders as long as the amount of such dividends, when aggregated with all other dividends in the preceding 12 months, does not exceed the greater
of: (i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as of the end of the immediately preceding calendar year; or (ii) its statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year. MICC will be permitted to pay a dividend in
excess of the greater of such two amounts only if it files notice of its declaration of such a dividend and the amount thereof with the Connecticut Commissioner of Insurance (the  Connecticut Commissioner ) and the Connecticut Commissioner
does not disapprove the payment within 30 days after notice. In addition, any dividend that exceeds earned surplus (unassigned funds, reduced by 25% of unrealized appreciation in value or revaluation of assets or unrealized profits on
investments) as of the last filed annual statutory statement requires insurance regulatory   
         411

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
approval. Under Connecticut State Insurance Law, the Connecticut Commissioner has broad discretion in determining whether the financial condition of a stock life insurance company would support
the payment of such dividends to its shareholders.      Under Rhode Island State Insurance Law, MPC is permitted,
without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay a stockholder dividend to MetLife, Inc. as long as the aggregate amount of all such dividends in any twelve-month period does not exceed the lesser of: (i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders
as of the end of the immediately preceding calendar year; or (ii) net income, not including realized capital gains, for the immediately preceding calendar year, which may include carry forward net income from the second and third preceding
calendar years excluding realized capital gains and less dividends paid in the second and immediately preceding calendar years. MPC will be permitted to pay a dividend to MetLife, Inc. in excess of the lesser of such two amounts only if it files
notice of its intention to declare such a dividend and the amount thereof with the Rhode Island Commissioner of Insurance (the  Rhode Island Commissioner ) and the Rhode Island Commissioner does not disapprove the distribution within
30 days of its filing. Under Rhode Island State Insurance Code, the Rhode Island Commissioner has broad discretion in determining whether the financial condition of a stock property and casualty insurance company would support the payment of
such dividends to its shareholders.      Under Missouri State Insurance Law, MetLife Investors Insurance Company
( MLIIC ) is permitted, without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay a stockholder dividend to its parent as long as the amount of the dividend when aggregated with all other dividends in the preceding 12 months does not exceed the
greater of: (i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as of the end of the immediately preceding calendar year; or (ii) its statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year (excluding net realized capital
gains). MLIIC will be permitted to pay a cash dividend to its parent in excess of the greater of such two amounts only if it files notice of the declaration of such a dividend and the amount thereof with the Missouri Commissioner of Insurance (the
 Missouri Commissioner ) and the Missouri Commissioner does not disapprove the distribution within 30 days of its filing. In addition, any dividend that exceeds earned surplus (defined as unassigned funds) as of the last filed annual
statutory statement requires insurance regulatory approval. Under Missouri State Insurance Law, the Missouri Commissioner has broad discretion in determining whether the financial condition of a stock life insurance company would support the payment
of such dividends to its shareholders.   
         412

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)     
  The following table sets forth the balance and changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) including
reclassification adjustments required for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 in other comprehensive income (loss) that are included as part of net income for the current year that have been reported as a part of other
comprehensive income (loss) in the current or prior year:           

413

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

    19.  Other Expenses    
   Information on other expenses was as follows:   

Capitalization of DAC and Amortization of DAC and VOBA     
  See Note 6 for DAC and VOBA by segment and a roll forward of each including impacts of capitalization and
amortization. See also Note 10 for a description of the DAC amortization impact associated with the closed block.   
    Interest Expense on Debt and Debt Issuance Costs     
  See Notes 11, 12, 13 and 14 for attribution of interest expense by debt issuance. Interest expense on debt and debt
issuance costs includes interest expense related to CSEs. See Note 3.        Lease Impairments     
  See Note 16 for description of lease impairments included within other expenses.   
    Costs Related to the Acquisition         Transaction and Integration-Related Expenses       The Company
incurred transaction costs of $3 million and $100 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Transaction costs represent costs directly related to effecting the Acquisition and primarily include banking and
legal expenses. Such costs have been expensed as incurred within Corporate   Other.   
  Integration-related costs were $362 million and $176 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and
2010, respectively. Integration-related costs represent costs directly related to integrating ALICO, including expenses for consulting, rebranding and the integration of information systems. Such costs have been expensed as incurred and as the
integration of ALICO is an enterprise-wide initiative, these expenses are reported within Corporate   Other.   
         414

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Restructuring Charges    
  As part of the integration of ALICO s operations, management initiated restructuring plans focused on increasing
productivity and improving the efficiency of the Company s operations. See Note 2. Estimated restructuring charges may change as management continues to execute its restructuring plans. Management anticipates further restructuring charges,
including severance, contract termination costs and other associated costs through the year ended December 31, 2013. However, such restructuring plans are not sufficiently developed to enable management to make an estimate of such restructuring
charges at December 31, 2011.      Restructuring charges associated with restructuring plans related to the
Acquisition are included in other expenses within Corporate   Other. Such restructuring charges included:       

Other Restructuring Charges     
  In September 2008, the Company began an enterprise-wide cost reduction and revenue enhancement initiative which was fully
implemented by December 31, 2011. This initiative was focused on reducing complexity, leveraging scale, increasing productivity and improving the effectiveness of the Company s operations, as well as providing a foundation for future
growth.      These restructuring charges are included in other expenses. As the expenses relate to an
enterprise-wide initiative, they are reported within Corporate   Other. Restructuring charges associated with this enterprise-wide initiative were as follows:       

Changes in severance charge estimates were due to changes in estimates for variable incentive
compensation, COBRA benefits, employee outplacement services and for employees whose severance status changed.   
  In addition to the above charges, the Company has recognized lease charges of $28 million associated with the
consolidation of office space since the inception of the initiative.   
         415

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

    20.  Earnings Per Common Share    
   The following table presents the weighted average shares used in calculating basic earnings per common
share and those used in calculating diluted earnings per common share for each income category presented below:       

416

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)  
    For purposes of the earnings per common share calculation, for the year ended December 31, 2010, the convertible preferred stock was assumed
converted into shares of common stock for both basic and diluted weighted average shares. See Note 18.          

(2)  
    See Note 14 for a description of the Company s common equity units.      

(3)  
    For the year ended December 31, 2009, 4,213,700 shares related to the assumed exercise or issuance of stock-based awards have been
excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share as these assumed shares are anti-dilutive.      

         417

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

    21.  Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)    
   The unaudited quarterly results of operations for 2011 and 2010 are summarized in the table below:

418

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

    22.  Business Segment Information    
   MetLife is organized into six segments: Insurance Products, Retirement Products, Corporate Benefit
Funding and Auto   Home (collectively,  U.S. Business ), and Japan and Other International Regions (collectively,  International ). The assets, liabilities and operating results relating to the Acquisition are included
in the Japan and Other International Regions segments. Prior year results have been adjusted to conform to the current year presentation. In addition, the Company reports certain of its results of operations in Corporate   Other, which
includes MetLife Bank and other business activities. On November 21, 2011, MetLife, Inc. announced that it will be reorganizing its business into three broad geographic regions: The Americas; Europe, the Middle East and Africa
( EMEA  and Asia, and creating a global employee benefits business to better reflect its global reach. While the Company has initiated certain changes in response to this announcement, management continued to evaluate the performance of
the operating segments under the existing segment structure as of December 31, 2011.      Insurance Products
offers a broad range of protection products and services to individuals and corporations, as well as other institutions and their respective employees, and is organized into three distinct businesses: Group Life, Individual Life and Non-Medical
Health. Group Life insurance products and services include variable life, universal life and term life products. Individual Life insurance products and services include variable life, universal life, term life and whole life products. Non-Medical
Health products and services include dental insurance, group short- and long-term disability, individual disability income, LTC, critical illness and accidental death   dismemberment coverages. Retirement Products offers a variety of
variable and fixed annuities. Corporate Benefit Funding offers pension risk solutions, structured settlements, stable value and investment products and other benefit funding products. Auto   Home provides personal lines property and
casualty insurance, including private passenger automobile, homeowners and personal excess liability insurance.   
  Japan life insurance products include whole life, term life, variable life and universal life products. Japan also
provides accident and health insurance, fixed and variable annuities and endowment products. These products are offered to both individuals and groups. Other International Regions provides life insurance, accident and health insurance, credit life
insurance, annuities, endowment and retirement   savings products to both individuals and groups.   
  Corporate   Other contains the excess capital not allocated to the segments, external integration costs,
internal resource costs for associates committed to acquisitions and various start-up and run-off entities. Additionally, Corporate   Other includes interest expense related to the majority of the Company s outstanding debt, expenses
associated with certain legal proceedings, the financial results of MetLife Bank (see Note 2) and income tax audit issues. Corporate   Other also includes the elimination of intersegment amounts, which generally relate to intersegment
loans, which bear interest rates commensurate with related borrowings.      Operating earnings is the measure of
segment profit or loss the Company uses to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. Consistent with GAAP accounting guidance for segment reporting, operating earnings is the Company s measure of segment performance and is reported
below. Operating earnings should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax. The Company believes the presentation of operating earnings as the Company measures it for management purposes
enhances the understanding of its performance by highlighting the results of operations and the underlying profitability drivers of the business.      Operating earnings is defined as operating revenues less operating expenses, both net of income tax.      Operating revenues and operating expenses exclude results of discontinued operations and other businesses that have been or will be sold or exited by MetLife, Inc. ( Divested Businesses ).
Operating revenues also excludes net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses).   
         419

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The following additional adjustments are made to GAAP revenues, in the
line items indicated, in calculating operating revenues:       

Universal life and investment-type product policy fees excludes the amortization of unearned revenue related to net investment gains (losses) and
net derivative gains (losses) and certain variable annuity GMIB fees ( GMIB Fees           

Net investment income: (i) includes amounts for scheduled periodic settlement payments and amortization of premium on derivatives that are
hedges of investments but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, (ii) includes income from discontinued real estate operations, (iii) excludes post-tax operating earnings adjustments relating to insurance joint ventures accounted
for under the equity method, (iv) excludes certain amounts related to contractholder-directed unit-linked investments, and (v) excludes certain amounts related to securitization entities that are VIEs consolidated under GAAP; and

Other revenues are adjusted for settlements of foreign currency earnings hedges.      
  The following additional adjustments are made to GAAP expenses, in the line items indicated, in calculating operating
expenses:       

Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends excludes: (i) changes in the policyholder dividend obligation related to net
investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), (ii) inflation-indexed benefit adjustments associated with contracts backed by inflation-indexed investments and amounts associated with periodic crediting rate adjustments based on
the total return of a contractually referenced pool of assets, (iii) benefits and hedging costs related to GMIBs ( GMIB Costs ), and (iv) market value adjustments associated with surrenders or terminations of contracts
( Market Value Adjustments           

Interest credited to policyholder account balances includes adjustments for scheduled periodic settlement payments and amortization of premium on
derivatives that are hedges of PABs but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and excludes amounts related to net investment income earned on contractholder-directed unit-linked investments;      

Amortization of DAC and VOBA excludes amounts related to: (i) net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), (ii) GMIB
Fees and GMIB Costs, and (iii) Market Value Adjustments;          

Amortization of negative VOBA excludes amounts related to Market Value Adjustments;      

Interest expense on debt excludes certain amounts related to securitization entities that are VIEs consolidated under GAAP; and

Other expenses excludes costs related to: (i) noncontrolling interests, (ii) implementation of new insurance regulatory requirements, and
(iii) business combinations.         In 2011, management modified its definition of operating
earnings to exclude the impacts of Divested Businesses, which includes certain operations of MetLife Bank and the Caribbean Business, as these results are not relevant to understanding the Company s ongoing operating results. Consequently,
prior years  results for Corporate   Other and total consolidated operating earnings have been decreased by $111 million, net of $66 million of income tax, and $211 million, net of $139 million of income tax, for the years ended
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
         420

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   In addition, in 2011, management modified its definition of operating
earnings to exclude impacts related to certain variable annuity guarantees and Market Value Adjustments to better conform to the way it manages and assesses its business. Accordingly, such results are no longer reported in operating earnings.
Consequently, prior years  results for Retirement Products and total consolidated operating earnings have been increased by $64 million, net of $34 million of income tax, and $90 million, net of $49 million of income tax,
for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.      Set forth in the tables below is certain
financial information with respect to the Company s segments, as well as Corporate   Other for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and at December 31, 2011 and 2010. The accounting policies of the segments are
the same as those of the Company, except for operating earnings adjustments as defined above, the method of capital allocation and the accounting for gains (losses) from intercompany sales, which are eliminated in consolidation.   
  Economic capital is an internally developed risk capital model, the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the
business and to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. The economic capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the risks inherent in the Company s business.   
  Effective January 1, 2011, the Company updated its economic capital model to align segment allocated equity with
emerging standards and consistent risk principles. Such changes to the Company s economic capital model are applied prospectively. Segment net investment income is also credited or charged based on the level of allocated equity; however,
changes in allocated equity do not impact the Company s consolidated net investment income, operating earnings or income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax.   
         421

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

422

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

423

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

424

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Net investment income is based upon the actual results of each
segment s specifically identifiable asset portfolio adjusted for allocated equity. Other costs are allocated to each of the segments based upon: (i) a review of the nature of such costs; (ii) time studies analyzing the amount of
employee compensation costs incurred by each segment; and (iii) cost estimates included in the Company s product pricing.      Operating revenues derived from any customer did not exceed 10% of consolidated operating revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Operating revenues from U.S. operations
were $44.7 billion, $43.7 billion and $41.4 billion for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which represented 68%, 85% and 88%, respectively, of consolidated operating revenues.   
    23.  Discontinued Operations    
     Real Estate        The Company actively manages its real estate portfolio with the objective of maximizing earnings through selective acquisitions and dispositions. Income related to real estate classified as held-for-sale
or sold is presented in discontinued operations. These assets are carried at the lower of depreciated cost or estimated fair value less expected disposition costs. Income from discontinued real estate operations, net of income tax, was
$64 million, $11 million and $19 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.      The carrying value of real estate related to discontinued operations was $1 million and $184 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
    Operations         MetLife Taiwan       During the first quarter of 2011, the
Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its wholly-owned subsidiary, MetLife Taiwan, to a third party, and the sale occurred in November 2011. See Note 2. The following tables present the amounts related to the operations and financial
position of MetLife Taiwan that have been reflected as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations and as assets and liabilities held-for-sale in the consolidated balance sheet:   

425

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Texas Life Insurance Company    
  During the fourth quarter of 2008, MetLife, Inc. entered into an agreement to sell its wholly-owned subsidiary, Cova, the
parent company of Texas Life, to a third-party and the sale occurred in March 2009. See Note 2. The following table presents the amounts related to the operations of Cova that have been reflected as discontinued operations in the consolidated
statements of operations:       

Year Ended December 31, 2009   

(In millions)   

Total revenues   
      
  $  
  25  

Total expenses   

19  

Income before provision for income tax   

6  

Provision for income tax expense   

2  

Income from operations of discontinued operations, net of income tax   

4  

Gain on disposal, net of income tax   

28  

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income tax   
      
  $  
  32  

24.  Subsequent Events    
     Dividends        On February 17, 2012, MetLife, Inc. announced dividends of $0.2527777 per share, for a total of $6 million, on its Series A preferred shares, and $0.4062500 per share, for a total of
$24 million, on its Series B preferred shares, subject to the final confirmation that it has met the financial tests specified in the Series A and Series B preferred shares, which the Company anticipates will be made on or about
March 5, 2012. Both dividends will be payable March 15, 2012 to shareholders of record as of February 29, 2012.   

         426

Table of Contents  

      MetLife, Inc.    
   
 Schedule 
 Consolidated Summary of Investments 
    Schedule I        Consolidated Summary of Investments          Other Than Investments
in Related Parties        December 31, 2011        (In millions)        

(1)  
    The Company s trading and other securities portfolio is mainly comprised of fixed maturity and equity securities, including mutual funds and,
to a lesser extent, short-term investments and cash and cash equivalents. Cost or amortized cost for fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans held-for-investment represents original cost reduced by repayments, valuation allowances and
impairments from other-than-temporary declines in estimated fair value that are charged to earnings and adjusted for amortization of premiums or discounts; for equity securities, cost represents original cost reduced by impairments from
other-than-temporary declines in estimated fair value; for real estate, cost represents original cost reduced by impairments and adjusted for valuation allowances and depreciation; for real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership
interests cost represents original cost reduced for other-than-temporary impairments or original cost adjusted for equity in earnings and distributions.      
         427

Table of Contents  

      MetLife, Inc.    
   
 Condensed Financial Information 
    Schedule II        Condensed Financial Information        (Parent Company Only)    
   December 31, 2011 and 2010        (In millions, except share and per share data)        
     See accompanying notes to the condensed financial information.    
         428

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Schedule II        Condensed Financial Information   (Continued)        (Parent Company Only)
       For the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009    
   (In millions)          
    
     See accompanying notes to the condensed financial information.    
         429

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Schedule II        Condensed Financial Information   (Continued)        (Parent Company Only)
       For the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009    
   (In millions)          

430

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Schedule II        Condensed Financial Information   (Continued)        (Parent Company Only)
       For the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009    
   (In millions)          

(1)  
    The 2010 amounts include measurement period adjustments described in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
     
         431

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Schedule II        Notes to the Condensed Financial Information        (Parent Company Only)
         
    1.  Basis of Presentation    
  The condensed financial information of MetLife, Inc. (the  Parent Company ) should be read in conjunction with
the consolidated financial statements of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries and the notes thereto (the  Consolidated Financial Statements ). These condensed unconsolidated financial statements reflect the results of operations, financial
position and cash flows for MetLife, Inc. Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.      The preparation of these condensed unconsolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to adopt accounting
policies and make certain estimates and assumptions. The most important of these estimates and assumptions relate to the fair value measurements, the accounting for goodwill and identifiable intangible assets and the provision for potential losses
that may arise from litigation and regulatory proceedings and tax audits, which may affect the amounts reported in the condensed unconsolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
      2.  Acquisition       On November 1, 2010, MetLife, Inc. acquired all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of American Life Insurance Company ( American Life ) and Delaware American Life Insurance Company
( DelAm ) (collectively,  ALICO ). For further information on the $16.4 billion purchase price including cash, common stock, convertible preferred stock and common equity units, as well as on the capital raised in
anticipation of the acquisition, see Notes 2, 11, 14 and 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
   3.  Loans to Subsidiaries       MetLife, Inc. lends funds, as necessary, to its subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their capital requirements. Such loans are included in loans to subsidiaries and consisted of the
following at:       
    On December 15, 2011, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ) repaid
in cash the $400 million and $100 million capital notes issued to MetLife, Inc. in December 2002.      In
September and November 2011, American Life issued notes to MetLife, Inc. for $100 million and $270 million, respectively. American Life repaid both notes during the fourth quarter of 2011.   
  In December 2009, the $700 million surplus note issued to MetLife, Inc. by MLIC was renewed and increased to
$775 million, extending the maturity to December 31, 2011 with an interest rate of six-month LIBOR + 1.80%. In April 2011, MLIC repaid in cash the $775 million surplus note. The early redemption was approved by the New York Superintendent
of Insurance.   
         432

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Schedule II        Notes to the Condensed Financial Information   (Continued)        (Parent
Company Only)          
   In December 2009, MLIC issued a surplus note to MetLife, Inc. for
$300 million maturing in 2011 with an interest rate of six-month LIBOR + 1.80%. MLIC received securities in exchange for the surplus note. On December 29, 2010, MLIC repaid the $300 million surplus note to MetLife, Inc. in cash.
     Interest income earned on loans to subsidiaries of $40 million, $63 million and $50 million
for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, is included in net investment income.   
  Payments of interest and principal on surplus notes, which are subordinate to all other obligations of the issuing
company, may be made only with the prior approval of the insurance department of the state of domicile.   
   4.  Long-term and Short-term Debt         Long-term Debt        Long-term debt outstanding was as
follows:       

(1)  
    Represents $165 million of affiliated senior notes associated with bonds held by ALICO at December 31, 2010. Such bonds were sold to a third
party in the second quarter of 2011.         The aggregate maturities of long-term debt at
December 31, 2011 for the next five years and thereafter are $797 million in 2012, $749 million in 2013, $1.4 billion in 2014, $1.3 billion in 2015, $1.5 billion in 2016 and $10.5 billion thereafter.   
    Short-term Debt        There was no short-term debt outstanding at both December 31, 2011 and 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the weighted average interest rate on short-term debt was 1.25%. During the
year ended December 31, 2009, the average daily balance on short-term debt was $5 million, and the average days outstanding was six days. There was no short-term debt activity in 2011 and 2010.   
         433

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Schedule II        Notes to the Condensed Financial Information   (Continued)        (Parent
Company Only)          
     Interest Expense     
  Interest expense was comprised of the following:   
   
     5.  Support Agreements    
  MetLife, Inc. is party to various capital support commitments and guarantees with certain of its subsidiaries. Under
these arrangements, MetLife, Inc. has agreed to cause each such entity to meet specified capital and surplus levels or has guaranteed certain contractual obligations.   
  In June 2011, MetLife, Inc. guaranteed the obligations of its subsidiary, DelAm, under a stop loss reinsurance agreement
with RGA Reinsurance (Barbados) Inc. ( RGARe ), pursuant to which RGARe retrocedes to DelAm a portion of the whole life medical insurance business that RGARe assumed from American Life on behalf of its Japan branch.   
  Prior to the sale in April 2011 of its 50% interest in MSI MetLife to a third party, MetLife, Inc. guaranteed the
obligations of its subsidiary, Exeter Reassurance Company, Ltd. ( Exeter ), under a reinsurance agreement with MSI MetLife, under which Exeter reinsures variable annuity business written by MSI MetLife. This guarantee will remain in place
until such time as the reinsurance agreement between Exeter and MSI MetLife is terminated, notwithstanding the April 2011 disposition of MetLife, Inc. s interest in MSI MetLife as described in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.      In March 2011, MetLife, Inc. guaranteed the obligations of its subsidiary, Missouri
Reinsurance (Barbados) Inc. ( MoRe ), under a retrocession agreement with RGARe, pursuant to which MoRe retrocedes a portion of the closed block liabilities associated with industrial life and ordinary life insurance policies that it
assumed from MLIC.      In November 2010, MetLife, Inc. guaranteed the obligations of Exeter in an aggregate
amount up to $1.0 billion, under a reinsurance agreement with MetLife Europe Limited ( MEL ), under which Exeter reinsures the guaranteed living benefits and guaranteed death benefits associated with certain unit-linked annuity
contracts issued by MEL.      In January 2010, MetLife, Inc. guaranteed the obligations of MoRe, under a
retrocession agreement with RGARe, pursuant to which MoRe retrocedes certain group term life insurance liabilities that it assumed from MLIC.   
         434

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Schedule II        Notes to the Condensed Financial Information   (Continued)        (Parent
Company Only)          
   In December 2009, MetLife, Inc., in connection with MetLife Reinsurance
Company of Vermont s ( MRV ) reinsurance of certain universal life and term life insurance risks, committed to the Vermont Department of Banking, Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration to take necessary action to
cause the third protected cell of MRV to maintain total adjusted capital equal to or greater than 200% of such protected cell s authorized control level risk-based capital ( RBC ), as defined in state insurance statutes. See
Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      MetLife, Inc., in connection with
MRV s reinsurance of certain universal life and term life insurance risks, committed to the Vermont Department of Banking, Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration to take necessary action to cause each of the two initial protected
cells of MRV to maintain total adjusted capital equal to or greater than 200% of such protected cell s authorized control level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes. See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.      MetLife, Inc., in connection with the collateral financing arrangement associated with MetLife
Reinsurance Company of Charleston s ( MRC ) reinsurance of a portion of the liabilities associated with the closed block, committed to the South Carolina Department of Insurance to make capital contributions, if necessary, to MRC so
that MRC may at all times maintain its total adjusted capital at a level of not less than 200% of the company action level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes as in effect on the date of determination or December 31, 2007,
whichever calculation produces the greater capital requirement, or as otherwise required by the South Carolina Department of Insurance. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  MetLife, Inc., in connection with the collateral financing arrangement associated with MetLife Reinsurance Company of
South Carolina s ( MRSC ) reinsurance of universal life secondary guarantees, committed to the South Carolina Department of Insurance to take necessary action to cause MRSC to maintain total adjusted capital equal to the greater of
$250,000 or 100% of MRSC s authorized control level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  MetLife, Inc. has net worth maintenance agreements with two of its insurance subsidiaries, MetLife Investors Insurance
Company and First MetLife Investors Insurance Company. Under these agreements, as subsequently amended, MetLife, Inc. agreed, without limitation as to the amount, to cause each of these subsidiaries to have a minimum capital and surplus of
$10 million, total adjusted capital at a level not less than 150% of the company action level RBC, as defined by state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it to meet its current obligations on a timely basis.   
  MetLife, Inc. also guarantees the obligations of a number of its subsidiaries under credit facilities with third-party
banks. See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         435

Table of Contents  

      MetLife, Inc.    
   
 Consolidated Supplementary Insurance Information 
    Schedule III        Consolidated Supplementary Insurance Information        December 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009        (In millions)        

(1)  
    Amounts are included within the future policy benefits, other policy-related balances and policyholder dividend obligation column.
     
         436

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Schedule III   (Continued)        Consolidated Supplementary Insurance Information        December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009        (In millions)          

(2)  
    Includes other expenses and policyholder dividends, excluding amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs ( DAC ) and value of
business acquired ( VOBA ) charged to other expenses.      
         437

Table of Contents  

      MetLife, Inc.    
   
 Consolidated Reinsurance 
    Schedule IV        Consolidated Reinsurance        December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
       (In millions)        

438

Table of Contents  

      Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements With
Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure          None.   
     Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures       
  Management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Interim Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the
effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive
Officer and Interim Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective.   
    Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting     
  Management of MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control
over financial reporting. In fulfilling this responsibility, estimates and judgments by management are required to assess the expected benefits and related costs of control procedures. The objectives of internal control include providing management
with reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use or disposition, and that transactions are executed in accordance with management s authorization and recorded properly to permit the
preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ).   
  Management has documented and evaluated the effectiveness of the internal control of the Company at December 31,
2011 pertaining to financial reporting in accordance with the criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.   
  In the opinion of management, MetLife, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting at
December 31, 2011.      Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has
audited the consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial statement schedules included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. The Report of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
on their audit of the consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial statement schedules is included at page 204.        Attestation Report of the Company s Registered Public Accounting Firm        The Company s independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte   Touche LLP, has issued their attestation report on management s internal control over financial reporting which
is set forth below.   
         439

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
  To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of      MetLife, Inc.:      We have audited the internal control over
financial reporting of MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission. The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.   
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons
performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   
  Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion
or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial
reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   
  In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.   
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),
the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules of the Company as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011, and our report dated February 28, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial
statements and financial statement schedules.      /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   
  DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP      New York, New
York      February 28, 2012   
         440

Table of Contents  

      Item 9B.    Other Information   
      None.   
         441

Table of Contents  

      Part III    
     Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance       
  The information called for by this Item pertaining to Directors is incorporated herein by reference to the sections
entitled  Proposal 1   Election of Directors,   Corporate Governance   Information about the Board of Directors,   Corporate Governance   Board Committees,   Corporate
Governance   Membership on Board Committees  and  Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in MetLife, Inc. s definitive proxy
statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 24, 2012, to be filed by MetLife, Inc. with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the year ended December 31, 2011 (the  2012 Proxy
Statement ).      The information called for by this Item pertaining to Executive Officers appears in
 Business   Executive Officers  in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and  Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in the 2012 Proxy
Statement.      The Company has adopted the MetLife Financial Management Code of Professional Conduct (the
 Financial Management Code ), a  code of ethics  as defined under the rules of the SEC, that applies to MetLife, Inc. s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and all professionals in
finance and finance-related departments. In addition, the Company has adopted the Directors  Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the  Directors  Code ) which applies to all members of MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors,
including the Chief Executive Officer, and the Employee Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (together with the Financial Management Code and the Directors  Code, collectively, the  Ethics Codes ), which applies to all employees of the
Company, including MetLife, Inc. s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer. The Ethics Codes are available on the Company s website at
http://www.metlife.com/about/corporate-profile/corporate-governance/corporate-conduct/index.html. The Company intends to satisfy its disclosure obligations under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K by posting information about amendments to, or waivers
from a provision of, the Ethics Codes that apply to MetLife, Inc. s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer on the Company s website at the address given above.   
     Item 11.    Executive Compensation       
  The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Corporate
Governance   Board Committees,   Corporate Governance   Compensation of Non-Management Directors,   Compensation Committee Report,   Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Summary
Compensation Table,   Grants of Plan-Based Awards in 2011,   Outstanding Equity Awards at 2011 Fiscal Year-End,   Option Exercises and Stock Vested in 2011,   Pension Benefits,   Nonqualified
Deferred Compensation  and  Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change-in-Control  in the 2012 Proxy Statement.         Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters       
  The information called for by this Item pertaining to ownership of MetLife, Inc. s common stock is incorporated
herein by reference to the sections entitled  Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers  and  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners  in the 2012 Proxy Statement. The following table provides information, at
December 31, 2011, regarding the securities authorized for issuance under MetLife, Inc. s equity compensation plans:   
         442

Table of Contents  

    Equity Compensation Plan Information at December 31, 2011    

(1)  
    Includes the MetLife, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan (the  2000 Stock Plan ) and the MetLife, Inc. 2000 Directors Stock Plan (the
 2000 Directors Stock Plan ) each of which was approved by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ), the sole shareholder of MetLife, Inc. at the time of approval. The policyholders of MLIC entitled to vote on its plan
of reorganization (the  Plan of Reorganization ) approved the Plan of Reorganization, which included both the 2000 Stock Plan and the 2000 Directors Stock Plan. The policyholders entitled to so vote received a summary description of
each plan, including the applicable limits on the number of shares of common stock of MetLife, Inc. ( Shares ) available for issuance under each plan. Also includes the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the
 2005 Stock Plan ) and the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Non-Management Director Stock Compensation Plan (the  2005 Directors Stock Plan ), which were approved by MetLife, Inc. security holders.      

(2)  
    As of December 31, 2011, awards of Stock Options remained outstanding under the 2000 Stock Plan and 2000 Directors Stock Plan, and awards
of Stock Options, Performance Shares, and Restricted Stock Units (each as defined in the 2005 Stock Plan) remained outstanding under the 2005 Stock Plan. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, a number of Shares that had vested and become
payable from any awards under any plan, but had been deferred, remained deferred and unpaid ( Deferred Shares ).      
  Under the award agreements that apply to the Performance Share awards made under the 2005 Stock Plan
as of December 31, 2011, Shares are payable to eligible award recipients following the conclusion of the performance period. The number of shares payable is determined by multiplying the number of Performance Shares by a performance factor
(from 0% to 200%) based on the performance of MetLife, Inc. with respect to: (i) change in annual net operating earnings per share; and (ii) proportionate total shareholder return, as defined, as a percentile of the performance of other
companies in the Fortune 500      companies in the Standard   Poor s Insurance Index, with such
exceptions as MetLife, Inc. Compensation Committee has determined, with regard to the performance period. With respect to Performance Share awards made in 2009, no Performance Shares will be payable unless MetLife, Inc. generates positive net income
available to common shareholders for either the third year of the performance period or for the performance period as a whole. With respect to Performance Share awards made in 2010 and 2011, no Performance Shares will be payable unless MetLife, Inc.
generates positive income from continuing operations before provision for income tax, excluding net investment gains (losses) (as defined in the applicable award agreements) for the performance period or the third calendar year of the performance
period, or generates positive proportionate total shareholder return for the performance period or the third calendar year of the performance period. In addition, the performance factor for awards made in 2009, 2010, or 2011 will be multiplied by
0.75 if MetLife, Inc. s total shareholder return with regard to the performance period is zero percent or less.      Under the award agreements that apply to the Restricted Stock Unit awards made under the 2005 Stock Plan as of December 31, 2011, Shares equal to the number of Restricted Stock Units awarded are
normally payable to eligible award recipients on the third or later anniversary of the date the Restricted Stock Units were granted.   
         443

Table of Contents  

(3)  
    Column (b) reflects the weighted average exercise price of all Stock Options under any plan that, as of December 31, 2011, had been
granted but not forfeited, expired, or exercised. Performance Shares, Restricted Stock Units, and Deferred Shares are not included in determining the weighted average in column (b) because they have no exercise price.

Each Share issued under the 2005 Stock Plan in connection with awards other than Stock Options or Stock Appreciation
Rights (including Shares payable on account of Performance Shares, Restricted Stock Units, and Stock-Based Awards) reduces the number of Shares remaining for issuance under the 2005 Stock Plan by 1.179 Shares. Each Share issued under the 2005
Stock Plan in connection with a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right reduces the number of Shares remaining for issuance under the 2005 Stock Plan by 1.0.      As of December 31, 2011, all Stock-Based awards made under the 2005 Directors Stock Plan have been immediately vested. Share awards to Directors under the 2000 Directors Stock Plan were
made under a separate Share award authorization under that plan, and have not reduced the number of Shares remaining available for issuance under any plan as of December 31, 2011.   
  Under the 2005 Stock Plan, awards may be in the form of Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or
Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares or Performance Share Units, Cash-Based Awards, and Stock-Based Awards (each as defined in the 2005 Stock Plan). Under the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Non-Management Director Stock Compensation Plan (the
 2005 Directors Stock Plan ), awards granted may be in the form of non-qualified Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, or Stock-Based Awards (each as defined in the 2005 Directors
Stock Plan). Under both the 2005 Stock Plan and the 2005 Directors Stock Plan, in the event of a corporate event or transaction (including, but not limited to, a change in the Shares or the capitalization of MetLife, Inc.) such as a merger,
consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, separation, stock dividend, extraordinary dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split up, spin-off, or other distribution of stock or property of MetLife, Inc., combination of securities,
exchange of securities, dividend in kind, or other like change in capital structure or distribution (other than normal cash dividends) to shareholders of MetLife, Inc., or any similar corporate event or transaction, the appropriate committee of the
Board of Directors of MetLife, Inc. (each, a  Committee ), in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of participants  rights under the applicable plan, shall in its sole discretion substitute or adjust, as applicable, the number and
kind of Shares that may be issued under that plan and shall adjust the number and kind of Shares subject to outstanding awards. Any Shares related to awards under either plan which: (i) terminate by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation, or
otherwise without the issuance of Shares; (ii) are settled in cash either in lieu of Shares or otherwise; or (iii) are exchanged with the appropriate Committee s permission for awards not involving Shares, are available again for
grant under the applicable plan. If the option price of any Stock Option granted under either plan or the tax withholding requirements with respect to any award granted under either plan are satisfied by tendering Shares to MetLife, Inc. (by either
actual delivery or by attestation), or if a Stock Appreciation Right is exercised, only the number of Shares issued, net of the Shares tendered, if any, will be deemed delivered for purposes of determining the maximum number of Shares available for
issuance under that plan. The maximum number of Shares available for issuance under either plan shall not be reduced to reflect any dividends or dividend equivalents that are reinvested into additional Shares or credited as additional Restricted
Stock, Restricted Stock Units, or Stock-Based Awards.   
         444

Table of Contents  

      Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions, and Director Independence          The information called for by this Item is
incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Corporate Governance   Procedures for Reviewing Related Person Transactions,   Corporate Governance   Related Person Transactions  and  Corporate
Governance   Information About the Board of Directors   Composition and Independence of the Board of Directors  in the 2012 Proxy Statement.         Item 14.    Principal Accountant Fees and Services          The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled  Proposal 2   Ratification of Appointment of the Independent Auditor  in the
2012 Proxy Statement.   
         445

Table of Contents  

      Part IV    
     Item 15.    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules       
  The following documents are filed as part of this report:   
  1. Financial Statements   
  The financial statements are listed in the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules on
page 203.      2. Financial Statement Schedules   
  The financial statement schedules are listed in the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and
Schedules on page 203.      3. Exhibits   
  The exhibits are listed in the Exhibit Index which begins on page E-1.   
         446

Table of Contents  

      Signatures    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.      February 28, 2012   

METLIFE, INC.    

By   
     
    /s/  Steven A. Kandarian    

Name:   
     
    Steven A. Kandarian    

Title:   
     
   Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer    
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Signature    
      
     Title    
     
     Date     

/s/  Sylvia Mathews Burwell  
  Sylvia Mathews Burwell   
      
  Director  
     
  February 28, 2012   

/s/  Eduardo Castro-Wright  
  Eduardo Castro-Wright   
      
  Director  
     
  February 28, 2012   

/s/  Cheryl W. Gris   
  Cheryl W. Gris    
      
  Director  
     
  February 28, 2012   

/s/  R. Glenn Hubbard  
  R. Glenn Hubbard   
      
  Director  
     
  February 28, 2012   

/s/  John M. Keane  
  John M. Keane   
      
  Director  
     
  February 28, 2012   

/s/  Alfred F. Kelly, Jr.  
  Alfred F. Kelly, Jr.   
      
  Director  
     
  February 28, 2012   

/s/  James M. Kilts  
  James M. Kilts   
      
  Director  
     
  February 28, 2012   

/s/  Catherine R. Kinney  
  Catherine R. Kinney   
      
  Director  
     
  February 28, 2012   

/s/  Hugh B. Price  
  Hugh B. Price   
      
  Director  
     
  February 28, 2012   

/s/  David Satcher, M.D.  
  David Satcher, M.D.   
      
  Director  
     
  February 28, 2012   

/s/  Kenton J. Sicchitano  
  Kenton J. Sicchitano   
      
  Director  
     
  February 28, 2012   

/s/  Lulu C. Wang  
  Lulu C. Wang   
      
  Director  
     
  February 28, 2012   

/s/  Steven A. Kandarian  
  Steven A. Kandarian   
      
  Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)  
     
  February 28, 2012   

/s/  Eric T. Steigerwalt  
  Eric T. Steigerwalt   
      
  Executive Vice President and Interim Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)  
     
  February 28, 2012   

/s/  Peter M. Carlson  
  Peter M. Carlson   
      
  Executive Vice President, Finance Operations and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)  
     
  February 28, 2012   
 
         447

Table of Contents  

      Exhibit Index    
      (Note Regarding Reliance on Statements in Our Contracts:    In reviewing the agreements included as
exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, please remember that they are included to provide you with information regarding their terms and are not intended to provide any other factual or disclosure information about MetLife, Inc., its
subsidiaries or affiliates, or the other parties to the agreements. The agreements contain representations and warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement. These representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit
of the other parties to the applicable agreement and (i) should not in all instances be treated as categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk to one of the parties if those statements prove to be inaccurate;
(ii) have been qualified by disclosures that were made to the other party in connection with the negotiation of the applicable agreement, which disclosures are not necessarily reflected in the agreement; (iii) may apply standards of
materiality in a way that is different from what may be viewed as material to investors; and (iv) were made only as of the date of the applicable agreement or such other date or dates as may be specified in the agreement and are subject to more
recent developments. Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time. Additional information about MetLife, Inc., its subsidiaries and affiliates may
be found elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and MetLife, Inc. s other public filings, which are available without charge through the SEC s website at www.sec.gov.)    

Exhibit     No.   
      
     Description     

2.1  
      
    Plan of Reorganization. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No. 333-91517) (the  S-1
Registration Statement )).    

2.2  
      
    Amendment to Plan of Reorganization, dated as of March 9, 2000. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the S-1 Registration
Statement).    

2.3  
      
    Acquisition Agreement between MetLife, Inc. and Citigroup Inc., dated as of January 31, 2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.3 to MetLife, Inc. s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 (the  2009 Annual Report )).    

2.4  
      
    Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 7, 2010, among MetLife, Inc., AM Holdings LLC (formerly known as ALICO Holdings LLC) and American International
Group, Inc. ( AIG ) (the  Stock Purchase Agreement ). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 11, 2010 (the  March 11, 2010 Form
8-K )).    

2.5  
      
    Amendment, dated October 28, 2010, among MetLife, Inc., AM Holdings LLC (formerly known as ALICO Holdings LLC) and AIG to the Stock Purchase Agreement.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 2, 2010 (the  November 2, 2010 Form 8-K )).    

2.6  
      
    Amendment, dated October 29, 2010, among MetLife, Inc., AM Holdings LLC (formerly known as ALICO Holdings LLC) and AIG to the Stock Purchase Agreement.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the November 2, 2010 Form 8-K).    

3.1  
      
    Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of MetLife, Inc.     

3.2  
      
    Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of MetLife, Inc., filed with the Secretary of State of
Delaware on April 7, 2000.     

3.3  
      
    Certificate of Designations of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, of MetLife, Inc., filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on June
10, 2005.      
         E-1

Table of Contents  

3.4  
     
    Certificate of Designations of 6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B, of MetLife, Inc., filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on June 14, 2005.

3.5  
     
    Certificate of Designations of Series B Contingent Convertible Junior Participating Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock of MetLife, Inc., filed with the
Secretary of State of Delaware on October 27, 2010.     

3.6  
     
    Certificate of Amendment of Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of MetLife, Inc., dated April 29, 2011.     

3.7  
     
    Amended and Restated By-Laws of MetLife, Inc., effective June 20, 2011. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current Report on Form
8-K dated June 23, 2011).    

4.1(a)  
     
    Indenture, dated as of November 9, 2001, between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to J.P. Morgan
Trust Company, National Association (as successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A.)), as trustee, relating to Senior Debt Securities.     

4.1(b)  
     
    Form of Indenture for Senior Debt Securities between MetLife, Inc. and one or more banking institutions to be qualified as Trustee pursuant to Section 305(b)(2)
of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1(a), except for the name of the trustee).    

4.2  
     
    Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 10, 2002, between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest
to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (as successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A.)), as trustee, relating to the 5.375% Senior Notes due December 15, 2012. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to MetLife, Inc. s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 (the  2007 Annual Report )).    

4.3  
     
    Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 10, 2002, between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest
to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (as successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A.)), as trustee, relating to the 6.50% Senior Notes due December 15, 2032. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the 2007 Annual
Report).    

4.4  
     
    Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 21, 2003, between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest
to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association), as trustee, relating to the 5.875% Senior Notes due November 21, 2033. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to MetLife, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2008 (the  2008 Annual Report )).    

4.5  
     
    Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 24, 2003, between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest
to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association), as trustee, relating to the 5.00% Senior Notes due November 24, 2013. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the 2008 Annual Report).    

4.6  
     
    Seventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 3, 2004, between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to
J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association), as trustee, relating to the 5.50% Senior Notes due June 15, 2014. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to the 2009 Annual Report).    

4.7  
     
    Eighth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 3, 2004, between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to
J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association), as trustee, relating to the 6.375% Senior Notes due June 15, 2034. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the 2009 Annual Report).    

4.8  
     
    Ninth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 23, 2004, between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to
J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association), as trustee, relating to the 5.50% Senior Notes due June 15, 2014. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.9 to the 2009 Annual
Report).     
         E-2

Table of Contents  

E-3

Table of Contents  

E-4

Table of Contents  

4.41  
     
    Form of Series E Senior Debenture due June 15, 2045. (Included in Exhibit 4.21 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to the November 2, 2010 Form
8-K).    

4.42(a)  
     
    Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005, between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to J.P. Morgan Trust
Company, National Association), as trustee, relating to Subordinated Debt Securities (the  Subordinated Indenture ). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.41(a) to the 2010 Annual Report).    

4.42(b)  
     
    Form of Indenture for Subordinated Debt Securities between MetLife, Inc. and one or more banking institutions to be qualified as Trustee pursuant to Section
305(b)(2) of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.42(a), except for the name of the trustee).    

4.43  
     
    First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005, to the Subordinated Indenture (the  First Supplemental Indenture ) between MetLife, Inc. and
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association), as trustee, relating to the 4.82% Junior Subordinated Debt Securities, Series A, due February 15, 2039 (the  Series A
Debentures ). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.42 to the 2010 Annual Report).    

4.44  
     
    Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005, to the Subordinated Indenture (the  Second Supplemental Indenture ) between MetLife, Inc. and
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association), as trustee, relating to the 4.91% Junior Subordinated Debt Securities, Series B, due February 15, 2040 (the  Series B
Debentures ). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.43 to the 2010 Annual Report).    

4.45  
     
    Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 21, 2006, to the Subordinated Indenture between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company,
N.A., as trustee, relating to the 6.40% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due December 15, 2066.    

4.46  
     
    Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 7, 2008, to the Subordinated Indenture between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company,
N.A., as trustee, amending the First Supplemental Indenture. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 8, 2008).    

4.47  
     
    Seventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 6, 2009, to the Subordinated Indenture between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company,
N.A., as trustee, amending the Second Supplemental Indenture. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 9, 2009).    

4.48  
     
    Eighth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 8, 2009, to the Subordinated Indenture between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.,
as trustee, relating to the 10.750% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due August 1, 2069. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 8, 2009 (the  July 8, 2009
Form 8-K )).    

4.49  
     
    Form of Series A Debenture. (Included in Exhibit 4.43. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.48 to the 2010 Annual Report).    

4.50  
     
    Form of Series B Debenture. (Included in Exhibit 4.44. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.49 to the 2010 Annual Report).    

4.51  
     
    Form of 6.40% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debenture due 2066. (Included in Exhibit 4.45).    

4.52  
     
    Form of 6.817% Senior Debt Securities, Series A, due 2018. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K
dated August 15, 2008).    

4.53  
     
    Form of 7.717% Senior Debt Securities, Series B, due 2019. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to MetLife Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
February 18, 2009).     
         E-5

Table of Contents  

4.54  
      
    Form of 10.750% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due August 1, 2069. (Included in Exhibit 4.48 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1
to the July 8, 2009 Form 8-K).    

4.55  
      
    Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust V. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to MetLife, Inc. s, MetLife Capital Trust V s, MetLife
Capital Trust VI s, MetLife Capital Trust VII s, MetLife Capital Trust VIII s and MetLife Capital Trust IX s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Nos. 333-147180, 333-147180-01, 333-147180-02, 333-147180-03, 333-147180-04 and
333-147180-05) (the  2007 S-3 Registration Statement )).    

4.56  
      
    Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust VI. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the 2007 S-3 Registration Statement).    

4.57  
      
    Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust VII. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to the 2007 S-3 Registration Statement).    

4.58  
      
    Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust VIII. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the 2007 S-3 Registration Statement).    

4.59  
      
    Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust IX. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to the 2007 S-3 Registration Statement).    

4.60  
      
    Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust V. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the 2007 S-3 Registration Statement).    

4.61  
      
    Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust VI. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.9 to the 2007 S-3 Registration Statement).    

4.62  
      
    Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust VII. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.10 to the 2007 S-3 Registration Statement).    

4.63  
      
    Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust VIII. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.11 to the 2007 S-3 Registration Statement).    

4.64  
      
    Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust IX. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.12 to the 2007 S-3 Registration Statement).    

4.65  
      
    Form of Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust (substantially identical, except for names and dates, for MetLife Capital Trust V, MetLife Capital Trust VI,
MetLife Capital Trust VII, MetLife Capital Trust VIII and MetLife Capital Trust IX). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.13 to the 2007 S-3 Registration Statement).    

4.66  
      
    Form of Trust Preferred Security Certificate (substantially identical, except for names and dates, for MetLife Capital Trust V, MetLife Capital Trust VI, MetLife
Capital Trust VII, MetLife Capital Trust VIII and MetLife Capital Trust IX). (Included in Exhibit 4.65. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.14 to the 2007 S-3 Registration Statement).    

4.67  
      
    Form of Trust Preferred Securities Guarantee Agreement (substantially identical, except for names and dates, for MetLife Capital Trust V, MetLife Capital Trust
VI, MetLife Capital Trust VII, MetLife Capital Trust VIII and MetLife Capital Trust IX). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.15 to the 2007 S-3 Registration Statement).    

4.68  
      
    Form of Common Securities Guarantee Agreement (substantially identical, except for names and dates, for MetLife Capital Trust V, MetLife Capital Trust VI,
MetLife Capital Trust VII, MetLife Capital Trust VIII and MetLife Capital Trust IX). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.16 to the 2007 S-3 Registration Statement).    

4.69  
      
    Form of Certificate for Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the S-1 Registration
Statement).     
         E-6

Table of Contents  

E-7

Table of Contents  

E-8

Table of Contents  

E-9

Table of Contents  

E-10

Table of Contents  

E-11

Table of Contents  

E-12

Table of Contents  

*  
    Indicates management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.      

**  
    Indicates document to be filed as an exhibit to a Current Report on Form 8-K or Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q pursuant to Item 601 of
Regulation S-K and incorporated herein by reference.      
         E-13

<EX-3.1>
 2
 d302570dex31.htm
 AMENDED AND RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION OF METLIFE, INC.

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of MetLife, Inc. 

Exhibit 3.1       AMENDED AND RESTATED      CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION   
  OF      METLIFE, INC.
     ARTICLE I      NAME OF CORPORATION      The name of the corporation is MetLife, Inc. (the
 Corporation ).      ARTICLE II      REGISTERED OFFICE      The Corporation s registered office in the State of
Delaware is at 1209 Orange Street, City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, Delaware. The name of its registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.      ARTICLE III      PURPOSE   
  The nature of the business of the Corporation and its purpose is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be
engaged under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.      ARTICLE IV   
  STOCK      SECTION
1. AUTHORIZED STOCK. The aggregate number of shares of stock that the Corporation shall have authority to issue is three billion (3,000,000,000) shares of Common Stock, par value $.01 per share (the  Common Stock ), and two hundred
million (200,000,000) shares of Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share (the  Preferred Stock ). Subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of Preferred Stock or Common Stock provided by this Certificate of
Incorporation, or otherwise by law, the number of authorized shares of the Common Stock and the Preferred Stock or any other class of   

stock may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) by the
affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the combined voting power of the outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote thereon, and, irrespective of the provisions of Section 242(b)(2) of the General Corporation Law
of the State of Delaware or any corresponding provision hereinafter enacted, with such outstanding shares of Common Stock and other stock considered for this purpose a single class.   
  SECTION 2. PREFERRED STOCK. (a) The Preferred Stock may be issued at any time and from time to time in one or more series. The Board
of Directors is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of shares of Preferred Stock in series and, by filing a certificate of designation containing such resolution pursuant to the applicable provisions of the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (hereinafter referred to as a  Preferred Stock Certificate of Designation ), to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each such series, and to fix the designation,
powers, preferences and rights of shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof.   
  (b) The authority of the Board of Directors with respect to each series of Preferred Stock shall include, but not be limited to,
determination of the following:       

(i)  
  the designation of the series, which may be by distinguishing number, letter or title;     

(ii)  
  the number of shares of the series, which number the Board of Directors may thereafter (except where otherwise provided in the applicable Preferred Stock Certificate of
Designation) increase or decrease (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding);         

(iii)  
  whether dividends, if any, shall be cumulative or noncumulative and the dividend rate of the series;     

(iv)  
  whether dividends, if any, shall be payable in cash, in kind or otherwise;     

(v)  
  the dates on which dividends, if any, shall be payable;         

(vi)  
  the redemption rights and price or prices, if any, for shares of the series;     

(vii)  
  the terms and amount of any sinking fund provided for the purchase or redemption of shares of the series;     
         -2-

(viii)  
  the amounts payable on shares of the series in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation;

(ix)  
  whether the shares of the series shall be convertible or exchangeable into shares of any other class or series, or any other security, of the Corporation or any other
corporation, and, if so, the specification of such other class or series or such other security, the conversion or exchange price or prices or rate or rates, any adjustments thereof, the date or dates as of which such shares shall be convertible or
exchangeable and all other terms and conditions upon which such conversion or exchange may be made;         

(x)  
  restrictions on the issuance of shares of the same series or of any other class or series; and     

(xi)  
  whether or not the holders of the shares of such series shall have voting rights, in addition to the voting rights provided by law, and if so, the terms of such voting
rights, which may provide, among other things and subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Incorporation, that each share of such series shall carry one vote or more or less than one vote per share, that the holders of such series
shall be entitled to vote on certain matters as a separate class (which for such purpose may be comprised solely of such series or of such series and one or more other series or classes of stock of the Corporation) and that all the shares of such
series entitled to vote on a particular matter shall be deemed to be voted on such matter in the manner that a specified portion of the voting power of the shares of such series or separate class are voted on such matter.     
  (c) The Common Stock shall be subject to the express terms of the Preferred Stock and any series thereof.   
  (d) Except as otherwise required by law, holders of Common Stock, as such, shall not be entitled to vote on any amendment to this
Certificate of Incorporation that alters or changes the powers, preferences, rights or other terms of one or more outstanding series of Preferred Stock if the holders of such affected series are entitled, either separately or together with the
holders of one or more other series of Preferred Stock, to vote thereon as a separate class pursuant to this Certificate of Incorporation or a Preferred Stock Certificate of Designation or pursuant to the General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware as currently in effect or as the same may hereafter be amended.      (e) For purposes hereof and the By-Laws, the term
 Certificate of Incorporation  includes the Certificate of Incorporation as it may be amended by a Preferred Stock Certificate of Designation from time to time.   
         -3-

SECTION 3. VOTING IN ELECTION OF DIRECTORS. Except as may be required by law or as provided
in this Certificate of Incorporation, the Common Stock shall have the exclusive right to vote for the election of Directors and for all other purposes, and holders of Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter or receive notice of
any meeting of stockholders. The election of Directors need not be taken by written ballot.      SECTION 4. OWNER. The Corporation
shall be entitled to treat the person in whose name any share of its stock is registered as the owner thereof for all purposes and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to, or interest in, such share on the part of any other
person, whether or not the Corporation shall have notice thereof, except as expressly provided by applicable law.      SECTION 5.
STOCKHOLDER RIGHTS PLANS. The Board of Directors is hereby authorized to create and issue, whether or not in connection with the issuance and sale of any of its stock or other securities or property, rights entitling the holders thereof to purchase
from the Corporation shares of stock or other securities of the Corporation or any other corporation. The times at which and the terms upon which such rights are to be issued will be determined by the Board of Directors and set forth in the
contracts or instruments that evidence such rights. The authority of the Board of Directors with respect to such rights shall include, but not be limited to, determination of the following:   

(a)  
  the initial purchase price per share or other unit of the stock or other securities or property to be purchased upon exercise of such rights;     

(b)  
  provisions relating to the times at which and the circumstances under which such rights may be exercised or sold or otherwise transferred, either together with or
separately from any other stock or other securities of the Corporation;         

(c)  
  provisions which adjust the number or exercise price of such rights, or amount or nature of the stock or other securities or property receivable upon exercise of such
rights, in the event of a combination, split or recapitalization of any stock of the Corporation, a change in ownership of the Corporation s stock or other securities or a reorganization, merger, consolidation, sale of assets or other
occurrence relating to the Corporation or any stock of the Corporation, and provisions restricting the ability of the Corporation to enter into any such transaction absent an assumption by the other party or parties thereto of the obligations of the
Corporation under such rights;         

(d)  
  provisions which deny the holder of a specified percentage of the outstanding stock or other securities of the Corporation the right to exercise such rights and/or
cause the rights held by such holder to become void;     
         -4-

(e)  
  provisions which permit the Corporation to redeem such rights or which prohibit or limit the redemption of such rights; and     

(f)  
  the appointment of a rights agent with respect to such rights.        ARTICLE V      INCORPORATOR   
  The name and mailing address of the incorporator is as follows:   
  Gary A. Beller      Metropolitan Life Insurance Company      One Madison Avenue
     New York, New York 10010      ARTICLE VI      BOARD OF DIRECTORS;   
  MANAGEMENT OF THE CORPORATION      SECTION 1. CLASSIFIED BOARD. (a) The Directors of the Corporation, subject to the rights of the holders of shares of any class or series of Preferred Stock, shall be classified with respect to the
time for which they severally hold office, into three classes, as nearly equal in number as possible, as shall be provided in the By-Laws of the Corporation, one class ( Class I ) whose term expires at the 2000 annual meeting of
stockholders, another class ( Class II ) whose term expires at the 2001 annual meeting of stockholders, and another class ( Class III ) whose term expires at the 2002 annual meeting of stockholders, with each class to hold office
until its successors are elected and qualified. At each annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, the date of which will be fixed pursuant to the By-Laws of the Corporation, and subject to the rights of the holders of shares of any class or
series of Preferred Stock, the successors of the class of directors whose term expires at that meeting shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders held in the third year following the year of their
election.      SECTION 2. POLICYHOLDER TRUST. While the Trust (as defined below) is in existence, each Director shall, in
exercising his or her duties as a director, take the interests of the beneficiaries of the Trust into account as if they were holders of the shares of Common Stock held therein, except to the extent that any such Director determines, based on advice
of counsel, that to do so would violate his or her duties as a director under Delaware law. For purposes of this Section 2, the  Trust  shall mean the Policyholder Trust created by the Policyholder Trust Agreement among the
Corporation,   
         -5-

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, Wilmington Trust Company and Chase Mellon Shareholder Services, L.L.C.,
dated November 3, 1999, as such may be amended from time to time.      SECTION 3. MANAGEMENT OF BUSINESS. The following
provisions are inserted for the management of the business, for the conduct of the affairs of the Corporation and for the purpose of creating, defining, limiting and regulating the powers of the Corporation and its directors and stockholders:

(a)  
  Subject to the rights of any holders of any series of Preferred Stock, if any, to elect additional Directors under specified circumstances, the holders of a majority of
the combined voting power of the then outstanding stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors may remove any Director, but only for cause.     

(b)  
  Vacancies in the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause and newly created directorships
resulting from any increase in the authorized number of Directors shall be filled in the manner provided in the By-Laws of the Corporation.         

(c)  
  Advance notice of nominations for the election of Directors shall be given in the manner and to the extent provided in the By-Laws of the Corporation.

(d)  
  The election of Directors may be conducted in any manner approved by the officer presiding at a meeting of stockholders or the Director presiding at a meeting of the
Board of Directors, as the case may be, at the time when the election is held and need not be by written ballot.         

(e)  
  All corporate powers and authority of the Corporation (except as at the time otherwise provided by law, by this Certificate of Incorporation or by the By-Laws) shall be
vested in and exercised by the Board of Directors.         

(f)  
  The Board of Directors shall have the power without the assent or vote of the stockholders to adopt, amend, alter or repeal the By-Laws of the Corporation, except to
the extent that the By-Laws or this Certificate of Incorporation otherwise provide. In addition to any requirements of law and any other provision of this Certificate of Incorporation, the stockholders of the Corporation may adopt, amend, alter or
repeal any provision of the By-Laws upon the affirmative vote of the holders of three-quarters (3/4) or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors.
    
         -6-

ARTICLE VII      LIABILITY OF DIRECTORS      SECTION 1. GENERAL. No Director of the Corporation shall
be liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of his or her fiduciary duty as a Director, except to the extent that such exemption from liability or limitation thereof is not permitted under the General Corporation
Law of the State of Delaware as currently in effect or as the same may hereafter be amended.      SECTION 2. REPEAL OR
MODIFICATION. Any repeal or modification of this Article VII by the stockholders of the Corporation shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a Director, officer or the Corporation existing at the time of such repeal or modification. If
the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware is amended after the filing of this Certificate of Incorporation to authorize corporate action further eliminating or limiting the personal liability of Directors, then the liability of a Director
of the Corporation shall be eliminated or limited to the fullest extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, as so amended.      ARTICLE VIII      NO STOCKHOLDER ACTIONS BY WRITTEN CONSENT   
  Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special
meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation, and the ability of the stockholders to consent in writing to the taking of any action, including (but not limited to) the election of Directors, is specifically denied.   
  ARTICLE IX   
  AMENDMENT      The
Corporation reserves the right to amend or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of Incorporation in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by the laws of the State of Delaware, and all rights herein conferred upon stockholders or
Directors (in the present form of this Certificate of Incorporation or as hereinafter amended) are granted subject to this reservation; provided, however, that any amendment or repeal of Article VII of this Certificate of Incorporation shall not
adversely affect any right or protection existing hereunder immediately prior to such amendment or repeal; and, provided, further, that Section 5 of Article IV and Articles VI, VII, VIII and this Article IX of this Certificate of Incorporation
shall not be amended, altered or repealed without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least three-quarters (3/4) of the then outstanding stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors.   
         -7-

</EX-3.1>

<EX-3.2>
 3
 d302570dex32.htm
 CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION

Certificate of Designation 

Exhibit 3.2       METLIFE, INC.      Certificate of Designation,   
  Preferences and Rights      Pursuant to Section 151      of the General Corporation law   
  of the State of Delaware        
       Certificate of
Designation,      Preferences and Rights      of      Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock   
  I, Gary A. Beller, being the Senior Executive Vice President and General Counsel of MetLife, Inc., a corporation organized and existing
under the General Corporation Law of Delaware (the  Corporation ), do hereby certify:      FIRST: That, pursuant to
authority expressly vested in the Board of Directors of the Corporation by the provisions of its Amended and Restated Certification of Incorporation, the Board of Directors on March 28, 2000 duly adopted the following resolution:   
  RESOLVED that a Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, be, and it hereby is, created by this Board of
Directors, pursuant to authority expressly vested in it by the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, and that the designation, relative powers, preferences and rights, and the qualifications,
limitations or restrictions thereof are as follows:      Section 1.  Designation and Number of Shares . 10,000,000
shares of the Preferred Stock of the Corporation shall constitute a series of Preferred Stock designated as Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock (hereinafter referred to as the  Series A Preferred Stock ). Such number of shares
may be increased or decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors; provided, that no decrease shall reduce the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock to a number less than the number of shares then outstanding plus the number of shares
reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options, rights or warrants or upon the conversion of any outstanding securities issued by the Corporation convertible into Series A Preferred Stock.   
  Section 2.  Dividends and Distributions . (A) Subject to the rights of the holders of any shares of any series of
Preferred Stock (or any similar stock) ranking prior and superior to the Series A Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock, in preference to the holders of Common Stock, par value $0.01 of the
Corporation (the  Common Stock ) and of any other junior stock which may   

be outstanding, shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, annual dividends payable in cash on the fifteenth
day of December in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a  Dividend Payment Date ), commencing on the first Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share of fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, in
an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (a) $10.00 per share, or (b) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 100 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and 100
times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions, other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or
otherwise), declared on the Common Stock since the immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date, or, with respect to the first Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock. In the
event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or
otherwise) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under clause (b) of the preceding
sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that
were outstanding immediately prior to such event.      (B) The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series
A Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (A) of this Section immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); provided that, in the event no dividend or
distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock during the period between any Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $10.00 per share of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be nevertheless be
payable on such subsequent Dividend Payment Date.      (C) Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares
or Series A Preferred Stock from the Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares of Series A Preferred Stock, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the first Dividend Payment Date, in which
case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred
Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall accumulate but
shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the shares of Series A Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among
all such shares at the time outstanding.   
         -2-

The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A
Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution thereon, which record date shall be not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.   
  Section 3.  Voting Rights . The holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:
     (A) Subject to the provisions for adjustments as hereinafter set forth, each share of Series A Preferred stock shall entitle
the holder thereof to 100 votes (and each one one-hundredth of a share of Series a Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to one vote) on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation
shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation
of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were
entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number
of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.      (B) Except as otherwise provided herein, the
Certificate of Incorporation, in any other certificate of designation creating a series of preferred stock or any similar stock, or by law, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock and any other
capital stock of the Corporation having general voting rights shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation.      (C) Except as provided herein, in Section 10 or by applicable law, holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the
extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for authorizing or taking any corporate action.      Section 4.  Certain Restrictions .      (A) Whenever quarterly dividends or
other dividends or distributions payable on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series A Preferred
Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not:      (i) declare or pay dividends on,
make any other distributions on any shares or stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up) to the Series A Preferred Stock;   
         -3-

(ii) declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any
shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock, and all such parity stock on which dividends
are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled;      (iii) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of any stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up) to the Series A Preferred Stock,
provided that the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such junior stock in exchange for shares of any stock of the Corporation ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or
winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock; or      (iv) purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any
shares of Series A Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or
by publication (as determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of such shares upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights, preferences and limitations of
the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes.      (B) The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under
paragraph (A) of this Section 4, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.   
  Section 5.  Reacquired Shares . Any shares of Series A Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in
any manner whatsoever, shall be retired and canceled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock, without designation as to series, and may be
reissued as part of a new series of preferred stock to be created by resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors, subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein, in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, in any
other certificate of designation creating a series of preferred stock or any similar stock or as otherwise required by law.   
  Section 6.  Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding-Up . Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up
of the Corporation, no distribution shall be made (A) to the holders of shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends   
         -4-

or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock unless prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have received the higher of
(i) $100 per share, plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of such payment, or (ii) an aggregate amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment
hereinafter set forth, equal to 100 times the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders of Common Stock; nor shall any distribution be made (B) to the holders of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding-up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except distributions made ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all other such parity stock in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares
are entitled upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding-up. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of
the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise) into a greater of lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the aggregate amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled
immediately prior to such event under the provision in clause (A) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after
such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.      Section 7.  Consolidation, Merger, etc . In case the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the share of Common Stock are exchanged for
or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, or otherwise changed, then in any such case each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed into an amount per share (subject
to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth) equal to 100 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed
or exchanged. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by
reclassification or otherwise) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be
adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding
immediately prior to such event.      Section 8.  No Redemption . The shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be
redeemable.      Section 9.  Rank . Unless otherwise provided in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the
Corporation or a Certificate of Designation relating to a subsequent   
         -5-

series of preferred stock of the Corporation, the Series A Preferred Stock shall rank junior to all other series of the Corporation s preferred stock as the payment of dividends and the
distribution of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, and senior to the Common Stock of this Corporation.   
  Section 10.  Amendment . The Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, shall not be amended in any
manner which would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series A Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of
Series A Preferred Stock, voting together as a single series.      Section 11.  Fractional Shares . Series A Preferred
Stock may be issued in fractions of a share (in one one-hundredths (1/100th) of a share and integral multiples thereof) which shall entitle the holder, in proportion to such holder s fractional shares, to exercise voting rights, receive
dividends, participate in distributions and to have the benefit of all other rights of holders of Series A Preferred Stock.   
         -6-

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designation is executed on behalf of the Corporation
by its Senior Executive Vice President and General Counsel and attested by its Secretary this 7th of April, 2000.        

/s/ Gary A. Beller    
 
    Name:   
     
  Gary A. Beller   
 
    Title:   
     
  Senior Executive Vice President and   

General Counsel   

ATTEST:    

/s/ Gwenn L. Carr   
 
    Name:   
     
  Gwenn L. Carr   
 
    Title:   
     
  Secretary   
 
         -7-

</EX-3.2>

<EX-3.3>
 4
 d302570dex33.htm
 CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS

Certificate of Designations 

Exhibit 3.3       CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS      OF   
  FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES A      OF      METLIFE, INC.   
  METLIFE, INC., a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the
 Corporation ), in accordance with the provisions of Sections 103 and 151 thereof, does hereby certify:      The Terms
Committee (the  Committee ) of the board of directors of the Corporation (the  Board of Directors ), in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated February 22, 2005, March 3, 2005 and the
unanimous written consent of the Board of Directors dated as of May 16, 2005, the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws of the Corporation and applicable law, adopted the following resolution creating a series of 27,600,000
shares of Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation designated as  Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A  at a meeting of the Committee on June 6, 2005.   
  RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated
February 22, 2005, March 3, 2005 and the unanimous written consent of the Board of Directors dated as of May 16, 2005, the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series
of Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other
rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:      SECTION
1. DESIGNATION. The distinctive serial designation of such series of Preferred Stock is  Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A  ( Series A Preferred Stock ). Each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall be
identical in all respects to every other share of Series A Preferred Stock, except as to the respective dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to Section 4(a) below.
     SECTION 2. NUMBER OF SHARES. The authorized number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be 27,600,000. Shares of
Series A Preferred Stock that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Series A Preferred Stock.

SECTION 3. DEFINITIONS. As used herein with respect to Series A Preferred Stock:   
  (a)  Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount  means, as of any Quarter End, the shareholders  equity of the Corporation
as reflected on its consolidated balance sheet as of such Quarter End minus accumulated other comprehensive income as reflected on such consolidated balance sheet, (i) subject to Section 5(d)(iv) and (ii) except that any increase in
shareholders  equity resulting from the issuance of Preferred Stock during the period from and including the Final Quarter End Test Date for a Dividend Period as to which the Corporation fails the test set forth in Section 5(a)(ii) through
the first Quarter End thereafter as of which the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount has declined by less than 10% or increased as compared to such amount on the Benchmark Quarter End Test Date shall not be taken into account in calculating
the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount as of such Quarter End during such period.      (b)  Annual Statement 
means, as to an Insurance Subsidiary, the annual statement of such Insurance Subsidiary containing its statutory balance sheet and income statement as required to be filed by it with one or more state insurance commissioners or other state insurance
regulatory authorities.      (c)  Benchmark Quarter End Test Date  has the meaning specified in Section 5(a)(ii).
     (d)  By-Laws  means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time.
     (e)  Business Day  means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is not a day on which
banking institutions in New York City generally are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.      (f)
 Calculation Agent  means, at any time, the person or entity appointed by the Corporation and serving as such agent at such time. The Corporation may terminate any such appointment and may appoint a successor agent at any time and from
time to time, provided that the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure that there is, at all relevant times when the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, a person or entity appointed and serving as such agent. The Calculation Agent may
be a person or entity affiliated with the Corporation.      (g)  Certificate of Designations  means this Certificate of
Designations relating to the Series A Preferred Stock, as it may be amended from time to time.      (h)  Certification of
Incorporation  shall mean the amended and restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designations.   
  (i)  Commission  means the Securities and Exchange Commission.   
  (j)  Common Stock  means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.   
         2   

(k)  Company-Action-Level RBC  has the meaning specified in subsection J of
Section 1 (or the relevant successor section, if any) of the Model Act.      (l)  Consolidated Net Income Amount 
means, for any fiscal quarter of the Corporation, its consolidated net income as reflected on its consolidated balance sheet for such fiscal quarter, subject to Section 5(d)(iv).   
  (m)  Covered Insurance Subsidiaries  means, as of any Year End, Insurance Subsidiaries that collectively account for 80% or
more of the combined General Account Admitted Assets of the Insurance Subsidiaries as of such Year End. The Insurance Subsidiaries as of a Year End shall be identified by first ranking the Insurance Subsidiaries from largest to smallest based upon
the amount of each Insurance Subsidiary s General Account Admitted Assets and then, beginning with the Insurance Subsidiary that has the largest amount of General Account Admitted Assets as of such Year End, identifying such Insurance
Subsidiaries as Covered Insurance Subsidiaries until the ratio of the combined General Account Admitted Assets of the Insurance Subsidiaries so identified to the combined General Account Admitted Assets of all of the Insurance Subsidiaries as of
such Year End equals or exceeds 80%.      (n)  Covered Insurance Subsidiaries  Most Recent Weighted Average NAIC RBC
Ratio  means, as of any date, an amount (expressed as a percentage) calculated as:      the sum of the Total
Adjusted Capital of each of the Covered Insurance Subsidiaries as shown on such Covered Insurance Subsidiary s most recently filed Annual Statement, divided by   
  the sum of the Company-Action-Level RBC of each of the Covered Insurance Subsidiaries as shown on such Covered Insurance
Subsidiary s most recently filed Annual Statement.      (o)  Dividend Declaration Date  has the meaning specified in
Section 5(a).      (p)  Exchange Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   
  (q)  Final Quarter End Test Date  and  Preliminary Quarter End Test Date  mean, with respect to a Dividend Payment
Date in the relevant month indicated under  Dividend Payment Date  in the table set forth below, the related date indicated under  Final Quarter End Test Date  or  Preliminary Quarter End Test Date  (as applicable) in
such table:       

Dividend  
  Payment Date   
      
    Preliminary  
  Quarter End Test Date   
      
  Final   Quarter End Test Date   

In March  
      
  The June 30 preceding  
      
  The December 31   

such Dividend Payment  
      
  preceding such   

Date  
      
  Dividend Payment   

Date   

In June  
      
  The September 30  
      
  The March 31   

preceding such Dividend  
      
  preceding such   

Payment Date  
      
  Dividend Payment   

Date   

In September  
      
  The December 31  
      
  The June 30 preceding   

preceding such Dividend  
      
  such Dividend   

Payment Date  
      
  Payment Date   

In December  
      
  The March 31 preceding  
      
  The September 30   

such Dividend Payment  
      
  preceding such   

Date  
      
  Dividend Payment   

Date   
 
         3   

(r)  General Account Admitted Assets  means, as to an Insurance Subsidiary as of
any Year End, the total admitted assets of such Insurance Subsidiary as reflected on the statutory balance sheet included in its Annual Statement as of such Year End minus the separate account assets reflected on such statutory balance sheet.
     (s)  Insurance Subsidiary  means a subsidiary of the Corporation that is organized under the laws of any state in
the United States and is licensed as a life insurance company in any state in the United States, but does not include any subsidiary of an Insurance Subsidiary.      (t)  Junior Stock  means the Common Stock, the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Series A Preferred Stock) that
ranks junior to Series A Preferred Stock either or both as to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or as to the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation, including the Convertible Non-Voting Participating Preferred Stock, if issued to Citigroup Inc. in connection with the Acquisition Agreement, dated as of January 31, 2005, as amended, by and between Citigroup Inc. and MetLife, Inc.
     (u)  London Business Day  means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is a day on
which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.      (v)  Model Act  means the Risk-Based
Capital (RBC) for Insurers Model Act as prepared by the NAIC and included in its Model Laws, Regulations and Guidelines as of June 6, 2005 and as hereafter amended, modified or supplemented.   
  (w)  Moneyline Telerate Page  means the display on Moneyline Telerate, Inc., or any successor service, on the page or pages
specified in Section 4 below or any replacement page or pages on that service.      (x)  NAIC  means the National
Association of Insurance Commissioners.      (y)  New Common Equity Amount  means, at any date, the net proceeds (after
underwriters  or placement agents  fees, commissions or discounts and other expenses relating to   
         4   

the issuances) received by the Corporation from new issuances of Common Stock (whether in one or more public
offerings registered under the Securities Act or private placements or other transactions exempt from registration under the Securities Act) during the period commencing on the 90th day prior to such date.   
  (z)  Parity Stock  means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Series A Preferred Stock) that ranks
equally with the Series A Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.   
  (aa)  Preferred Stock  means any and all series of preferred stock, having a par value of $0.01 per share, of the Corporation,
including the Series A Preferred Stock.      (bb)  Quarter End  means the last day of each fiscal quarter of the
Corporation (i.e., March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31).      (cc)  Representative
Amount  means, at any time, an amount that, in the Calculation Agent s judgment, is representative of a single transaction in the relevant market at the relevant time.   
  (dd)  Securities Act  means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.   
  (ee)  Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock  means the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $0.01
per share, of the Corporation.      (ff)  Total Adjusted Capital  has the meaning specified in subsection M of
Section 1 (or the relevant successor section, if any) of the Model Act.      (gg)  Trailing Four Quarters Consolidated
Net Income  means, for any period ending on a Quarter End, the sum of the Consolidated Net Income Amounts for the Corporation s four fiscal quarters ending as of such Quarter End, with losses being treated as negative numbers for such
purpose.      (hh)  Voting Preferred Stock  means, with regard to any election or removal of a Preferred Stock Director
(as defined in Section 8(b) below) or any other matter as to which the holders of Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to vote as specified in Section 8 of this Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Preferred Stock (other
than Series A Preferred Stock) that rank equally with Series A Preferred Stock either as to the payment of dividends or as to the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights
have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.      (ii)  U.S. GAAP  means, at any date or for any
period, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles as in effect on such date or for such period.      (jj)  Year End 
means the last day of each fiscal year of the Corporation.   
         5   

SECTION 4. DIVIDENDS.   
  (a) RATE. Holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-cumulative cash dividends at the rate determined as set forth below in this Section 4(a) applied to the
liquidation preference amount of $25.00 per share of Series A Preferred Stock. Such dividends shall be payable quarterly in arrears (as provided below in this Section 4(a)), but only when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors, on March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15 (each, a  Dividend Payment Date ), commencing on September 15, 2005; provided that if any such Dividend
Payment Date would otherwise occur on a day that is not a Business Day, such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any dividend payable on Series A Preferred Stock on such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be payable on) the immediately
succeeding Business Day, unless such immediately succeeding Business Day falls in the next calendar month, in which case such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any such dividend shall instead be payable on) the immediately preceding
Business Day. Dividends on Series A Preferred Stock shall not be cumulative; holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to receive any dividends not declared by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of
Directors and no interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend not so declared.   
  Dividends that are payable on Series A Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series A
Preferred Stock as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or a duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a  Dividend Record Date ). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date
whether or not such day is a Business Day.      Each dividend period (a  Dividend Period ) shall commence on and include
a Dividend Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which shall commence on and include the date of original issue of the Series A Preferred Stock, provided that, for any share of Series A Preferred Stock issued after such original
issue date, the initial Dividend Period for such shares may commence on and include such other date as the Board of Directors or the Committee or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall determine and publicly disclose) and shall
end on and include the calendar day preceding the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the Series A Preferred Stock in respect of any Dividend Period shall be computed by the Calculation Agent on the basis of a 360-day year and the
actual number of days elapsed in such Dividend Period, except that dividends for the initial period will be calculated from the original issue date. Dividends payable in respect of a Dividend Period shall be payable in arrears (i.e., on the first
Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Period).      The dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock, for each Dividend
Period, shall be at an annual rate equal to the greater of (1) 1.00% above LIBOR (as defined below) on the related LIBOR determination date for such Dividend Period and (2) 4.00%. LIBOR, with respect to any   
         6   

Dividend Period, means the annual offered rate expressed as a percentage for three-month deposits in U.S.
dollars, beginning on the first day of such Dividend Period, as that rate appears on Moneyline Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00 a.m. London time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period.
     If the rate described in the preceding paragraph does not appear on Moneyline Telerate Page 3750, LIBOR shall be determined
on the basis of the rates, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period, at which deposits of the following kind are offered to prime banks in the London
interbank market by four major banks in that market selected by the Calculation Agent: three-month deposits in U.S. dollars, beginning on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a Representative Amount. The Calculation Agent shall request the
principal London office of each of these banks to provide a quotation of its rate at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such
Dividend Period shall be the arithmetic mean of such quotations.      If fewer than two quotations are provided as described in
the preceding paragraph, LIBOR on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period shall be the arithmetic mean of the rates for loans of the following kind to leading European banks quoted, at approximately
11:00 a.m. New York City time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period, by three major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent: three-month loans of U.S. dollars, beginning on
the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a Representative Amount.      If fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation
Agent are quoting as described in the preceding paragraph, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be LIBOR in effect for the prior Dividend Period.      The Calculation Agent s determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount of dividends for any Dividend Period, will be maintained on file at the Corporation s principal
offices and will be available to any stockholder upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.   
  Holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other
than dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series A Preferred Stock as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designations).   
  (b) PRIORITY OF DIVIDENDS. So long as any shares of Series A Preferred Stock remain outstanding for any Dividend Period, unless the full
dividends for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock and Parity Stock have been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside), no dividend shall be
declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock), and no Common Stock or other Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the
Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock and other than
through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of Junior Stock) during a Dividend Period.   
         7   

When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside)
in full on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period) upon the Series A Preferred Stock and any
shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment
Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared pro rata so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid
dividends per share on the Series A Preferred Stock and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date
falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) bear to each other.      SECTION 5. MANDATORY SUSPENSION
OF DIVIDENDS.      (a) TESTS FOR SUSPENSION. Notwithstanding Section 4(a), neither the Board of Directors nor any committee of
the Board of Directors may declare dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for payment on any Dividend Payment Date in an aggregate amount exceeding the New Common Equity Amount as of the date of declaration (the  Dividend Declaration
Date ) for such Dividend Payment Date if:      (i) the Covered Insurance Subsidiaries  Most Recent
Weighted Average NAIC RBC Ratio was less than 175% (subject to Section 5(d)(iii)); or      (ii) (x) the
Trailing Four Quarters Consolidated Net Income Amount for the period ending on the Preliminary Quarter End Test Date for such Dividend Payment Date is zero or a negative amount and (y) the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount as of each of
the Preliminary Quarter End Test Date and the Final Quarter End Test Date for such Dividend Payment Date has declined by 10% or more as compared to the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount as of the tenth Quarter End prior to such Final Quarter
End Test Date (such date for such Dividend Payment Date and related Final Quarter End Test Date, the  Benchmark Quarter End Test Date ).      Additionally, and without limiting the foregoing provisions of this Section 5(a), if the Corporation has failed the test in Section 5(a)(ii) as to a prior Dividend Payment Date, then neither the
Board of Directors nor any committee of the Board of Directors may declare dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for payment thereafter in an aggregate amount exceeding the New Common Equity Amount as of the Dividend Declaration Date for such
prior Dividend Payment Date until the Dividend Declaration Date for the first Dividend Payment Date for which, as of the related Final Quarter End Test Date, the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount has increased or has declined by less than
10%, in either case as compared to the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount as of the Benchmark Quarter End Test Date for such prior Dividend Payment Date.   
         8   

(b) POTENTIAL DIVIDEND SUSPENSION NOTICE. If as of the Preliminary Quarter End Test Date for
any Dividend Payment Date (x) the Trailing Four Quarters Consolidated Net Income Amount for the period ending on such Preliminary Quarter End Test Date is zero or a negative amount and (y) the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount as
of such Preliminary Quarter End Test Date has declined by 10% or more as compared to the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount as of the Benchmark Quarter End Test Date for such Dividend Payment Date, then the Corporation shall give notice of
such circumstance by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation, and shall file a copy of such notice
on Form 8-K with the Commission (or, if the Corporation is not then a reporting company under the Exchange Act, post a copy of such notice on the Corporation s website), by not later than the first Dividend Payment Date following such
Preliminary Quarter End Test Date. Such notice shall (i) set forth the Trailing Four Quarters Consolidated Net Income Amount for the period ending on such Preliminary Quarter End Test Date and the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount as of
such Preliminary Quarter End Test Date and as of the Benchmark Quarter End Test Date, and (ii) state that the Corporation may be precluded by the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock from declaring and paying dividends on such Dividend Payment
Date unless the Corporation, through the generation of earnings or issuance of new common equity, increases its Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount by an amount specified in such notice by the second Quarter End after the date of such notice.
The Corporation need not give any notice under this Section 5(b) during any period in which the Corporation s ability to declare and pay dividends is limited by reason of the application of Section 5(a).   
  (c) DIVIDEND SUSPENSION NOTICE. By not later than the 15th day prior to each Dividend Payment Date for which dividends are being
suspended by reason of the tests set forth in Section 5(a), the Corporation shall give notice of such suspension by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock at their
respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation, and shall file a copy of such notice on Form 8-K with the Commission (or, if the Corporation is not then a reporting company under the Exchange Act, post a copy of such notice on
the Corporation s website). Such notice, in addition to stating that dividends will be suspended, shall (i) if dividends are suspended by reason of the test set forth in Section 5(a)(i), state that the Covered Insurance
Subsidiaries  Most Recent Weighted Average NAIC RBC Ratio is less than 175% and (ii) if such suspension is by reason of the test set forth in Section 5(a)(ii), set forth the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount as of the most
recent Quarter End and the amount by which the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount must increase in order for declaration and payment of dividends to be resumed.      (d) INTERPRETIVE PROVISIONS; QUALIFICATIONS, ETC. In order to give effect to the foregoing, the following provisions apply:   
  (i) Neither the Board of Directors nor a committee of the Board of Directors may declare dividends on any date that
(x) in the case of a Dividend Declaration Date relating to a Dividend Payment Date in March in any year, is before March 5 in such year, and (y) in the case of a Dividend Declaration Date
  
         9   

for a Dividend Payment Date in June, September or December of any year, is before the immediately preceding May 15 (in the case of a June Dividend Payment Date), August 15 (in the case
of a September Dividend Payment Date), and November 15 (in the case of a December Dividend Payment Date).   
  (ii) Except as expressly provided otherwise in this Section 5 or in Section 3, all references in this
Section 5 to financial statements of the Corporation shall be deemed to be to financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, consistently applied, and, for so long as the Corporation is a reporting company under the Exchange Act,
filed by the Corporation with the Commission under the Exchange Act. If at any relevant time or for any relevant period the Corporation is not a reporting company under the Exchange Act, then (x) for all relevant dates and periods the
Corporation shall prepare and post on its website the financial statements that it would have been required to file with the Commission had it continued to be a reporting company under the Exchange Act, in each case on or before the dates that the
Corporation would have been required to file such financial statements with the Commission under the Exchange Act had it continued to be an  accelerated filer  within the meaning of Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act, and (y) the
provisions of this Section 5 shall be read mutatis mutandis to give effect to such provision.      (iii) The
limitation on dividends provided for in Section 5(a)(i) shall be of no force and effect if, as of a Dividend Declaration Date, the combined total assets of the Insurance Subsidiaries do not account for 25% or more of the consolidated total
assets of the Corporation as reflected on its most recent consolidated financial statements filed with the Commission or, in case Section 5(d)(ii) then applies, posted on the Corporation s website.   
  (iv) All financial terms used in this Section 5 that are not specifically defined, including financial terms used
within the definitions of defined terms, shall be determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP as applied to and reflected in the related financial statements of the Corporation as of the relevant dates and for the relevant period, except as provided in
the next sentence. If because of a change in U.S. GAAP that results in a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle or a restatement:      (x) Consolidated Net Income for a period is lower or higher than it would have been absent such change, then, for purposes of the calculations under Section 5(a)(ii) for the four fiscal quarters of
the Corporation commencing with the fiscal quarter for which such change in U.S. GAAP becomes effective, Consolidated Net Income shall be calculated on a pro forma basis without giving effect to such change in U.S. GAAP; or   
         10   

(y) the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount as of a Quarter End
(whether or not a Preliminary Quarter End Test Date or a Final Quarter End Test Date) is lower or higher than it would have been absent such change, then, for purposes of the calculations under Section 5(a)(ii) and the last sentence of
Section 5(a), the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount shall be calculated on a pro forma basis without giving effect to such change in U.S. GAAP, commencing with the first Quarter End as of which such change in U.S. GAAP becomes effective
and continuing through (A) for purposes of Section 5(a)(ii), the tenth Quarter End thereafter, and (B) for purposes of the last sentence of Section 5(a), the Quarter End immediately preceding the first Dividend Payment Date for
which the payment of dividends is not restricted by such sentence.      SECTION 6. LIQUIDATION RIGHTS.   
  (a) VOLUNTARY OR INVOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION. In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation,
whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation,
and after satisfaction of all liabilities and obligations to creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other Junior Stock, in full an amount equal
to $25.00 per share, together with an amount equal to all dividends (if any) that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such distribution (but without any amount in respect of dividends that have not been declared prior to
such payment date).      (b) PARTIAL PAYMENT. If in any distribution described in Section 6(a) above the assets of the
Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preferences (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series A Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series A Preferred
Stock and to the holders of all such other Parity Stock shall be paid pro rata in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preferences of the holders of Series A Preferred Stock and the holders of all such other Parity Stock. In any such
distribution, the  Liquidation Preference  of any holder of Preferred Stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available
for such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series A Preferred Stock and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid,
accrued cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable).      (c) RESIDUAL DISTRIBUTIONS. If the Liquidation
Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series A Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to
their respective rights and preferences.      (d) MERGER, CONSOLIDATION AND SALE OF ASSETS NOT LIQUIDATION. For purposes of this
Section 6, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series A Preferred Stock receive cash, securities or other property for their
shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.   
         11   

SECTION 7. REDEMPTION.   
  (a) OPTIONAL REDEMPTION. The Series A Preferred Stock may not be redeemed by the Corporation prior to September 15, 2010. On or after
September 15, 2010, the Corporation, at its option, may redeem, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, the shares of Series A Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 7(c) below, at a
redemption price equal to $25.00 per share, together (except as otherwise provided hereinbelow) with an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid prior to the redemption date (but with no amount in respect of any dividends
that have not been declared prior to such date). The redemption price for any shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to
the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the
redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above.   
  (b) NO SINKING FUND. The Series A Preferred Stock will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund, retirement fund or
purchase fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Series A Preferred Stock will have no right to require redemption, repurchase or retirement of any shares of Series A Preferred Stock.   
  (c) NOTICE OF REDEMPTION. Notice of every redemption of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be given by first class mail, postage
prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for
redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the
mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series A Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series A Preferred Stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the
Series A Preferred Stock or any depositary shares representing interests in the Series A Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the
holders of Series A Preferred Stock at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock to be redeemed
and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be
surrendered for payment of the redemption price.   
         12   

(d) PARTIAL REDEMPTION. In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series A
Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either pro rata or in such other manner as the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full
power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued
representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.      (e) EFFECTIVENESS OF REDEMPTION. If notice of
redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the pro rata benefit
of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the
redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date
cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be
released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.   
  SECTION 8. VOTING RIGHTS.      (a) GENERAL. The holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from to time required by law.   
  (b) RIGHT TO ELECT TWO DIRECTORS UPON NONPAYMENT EVENTS. If and whenever dividends on any shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not
have been declared and paid for at least six Dividend Periods, whether or not consecutive (a  Nonpayment Event ), the number of directors then constituting the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of
Series A Preferred Stock, together with the holders of any outstanding shares of Voting Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be entitled to elect the two additional directors (the  Preferred Stock Directors ), provided
that it shall be a qualification for election for any such Preferred Stock Director that the election of such director shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other
securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded) that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors.   
  In the event that the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, and such other holders of Voting Preferred Stock, shall be entitled to
vote for the election of the Preferred Stock Directors following a Nonpayment Event, such directors shall be initially elected following such Nonpayment Event only at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20%
of the Series A Preferred Stock or of any other such series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (unless such request for a special meeting is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the
stockholders of the Corporation, in   
         13   

which event such election shall be held only at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation. Such request to
call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event shall be made by written notice, signed by the requisite holders of Series A Preferred Stock or Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the
Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 10 below, or as may otherwise be required by law.   
  When dividends have been paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) in full on the Series A Preferred Stock
for at least four Dividend Periods (whether or not consecutive) after a Nonpayment Event, then the right of the holders of Series A Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall cease (but subject always to revesting of such voting
rights in the case of any future Nonpayment Event pursuant to this Section 8 and the number of Dividend Periods in which dividends have not been declared and paid shall be reset to zero), and, if and when any rights of holders of Series A
Preferred Stock and Voting Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall have ceased, the terms of office of all the Preferred Stock Directors shall forthwith terminate and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors
shall automatically be reduced accordingly.      Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the
holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series A Preferred Stock and Voting Preferred Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class). So long as a Nonpayment Event shall continue,
any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election of Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if
none remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series A Preferred Stock and Voting Preferred Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class). Any
such vote of stockholders to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock Director may be taken only at a special meeting of such stockholders, called as provided above for an initial election of Preferred Stock Director after a
Nonpayment Event (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders).
The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote. Each Preferred Stock Director elected at any special meeting of stockholders or by written consent
of the other Preferred Stock Director shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders if such office shall not have previously terminated as above provided.   
  (c) OTHER VOTING RIGHTS. So long as any shares of Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of
stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock and any Voting Preferred Stock (subject to the last paragraph of this
Section 8(c)) at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for
effecting or validating:   
         14   

(i) AUTHORIZATION OF SENIOR STOCK. Any amendment or alteration of the
Certificate of Incorporation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series A Preferred Stock with respect to either or both the
payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;      (ii) AMENDMENT OF SERIES A PREFERRED STOCK. Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights,
preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series A Preferred Stock, taken as a whole; or      (iii) SHARE
EXCHANGES, RECLASSIFICATIONS, MERGERS AND CONSOLIDATIONS. Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series A Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other
entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series A Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or
exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting
powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series A
Preferred Stock immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;      provided, however, that for all purposes of this Section 8(c),
any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series A Preferred Stock or authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking equally
with and/or junior to the Series A Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation
will not be deemed to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series A Preferred Stock.      If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 8(c) would materially and adversely affect the Series A Preferred Stock and
one or more but not all other series of Preferred Stock, then only the Series A Preferred Stock and such series of Preferred Stock as are materially and adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a
single class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock).      (d) CHANGES FOR CLARIFICATION. Without the consent of the
holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, so long as such action does not adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series A Preferred Stock, the Corporation may
amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series A Preferred Stock:   
         15   

(i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision
contained in this Certificate of Designations that may be defective or inconsistent; or      (ii) to make any
provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.   
  (e) CHANGES AFTER PROVISION FOR REDEMPTION. No vote or consent of the holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to
Section 8(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or shall have
been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 7 above.      (f) PROCEDURES FOR VOTING AND CONSENTS. The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series A Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record
date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of
Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the By-Laws, applicable law and any
national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series A Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series A Preferred
Stock and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the
shares voted or covered by the consent.      SECTION 9. RECORD HOLDERS. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the
Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series A Preferred Stock may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series A Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer
agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.      SECTION 10. NOTICES. All notices or communications in respect of
Series A Preferred Stock shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the Certificate of
Incorporation or By-Laws or by applicable law.      SECTION 11. NO PREEMPTIVE RIGHTS. No share of Series A Preferred Stock shall
have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated,
issued or granted.   
         16   

SECTION 12. OTHER RIGHTS. The shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not have any voting
powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, METLIFE, INC. has caused this certificate to be signed by Anthony J. Williamson, its Senior Vice
President and Treasurer, this 7th day of June, 2005.        

METLIFE, INC.   

By:  
     
    /s/ Anthony J. Williamson    

Name: Anthony J. Williamson   

Title: Senior Vice President and Treasurer   

17   

</EX-3.3>

<EX-3.4>
 5
 d302570dex34.htm
 CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS

Certificate of Designations 

Exhibit 3.4       CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS      OF   
  6.500% NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES B      OF      METLIFE, INC.   
  METLIFE, INC., a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the
 Corporation ), in accordance with the provisions of Sections 103 and 151 thereof, does hereby certify:      The Terms
Committee (the  Committee ) of the board of directors of the Corporation (the  Board of Directors ), in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated February 22, 2005, March 3, 2005 and the
unanimous written consent of the Board of Directors dated as of May 16, 2005, the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws of the Corporation and applicable law, adopted the following resolution creating a series of 69,000,000
shares of Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation designated as  6.500% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B  at a meeting of the Committee on June 9, 2005.   
  RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated
February 22, 2005, March 3, 2005 and the unanimous written consent of the Board of Directors dated as of May 16, 2005, the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series
of Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other
rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:      SECTION
1. DESIGNATION. The distinctive serial designation of such series of Preferred Stock is  6.500% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B  ( Series B Preferred Stock ). Each share of Series B Preferred Stock shall be identical in
all respects to every other share of Series B Preferred Stock, except as to the respective dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to Section 4(a) below.   
  SECTION 2. NUMBER OF SHARES. The authorized number of shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be 69,000,000. Shares of Series B
Preferred Stock that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Series B Preferred Stock.

SECTION 3. DEFINITIONS. As used herein with respect to Series B Preferred Stock:   
  (a)  Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount  means, as of any Quarter End, the shareholders  equity of the Corporation
as reflected on its consolidated balance sheet as of such Quarter End minus accumulated other comprehensive income as reflected on such consolidated balance sheet, (i) subject to Section 5(d)(iv) and (ii) except that any increase in
shareholders  equity resulting from the issuance of Preferred Stock during the period from and including the Final Quarter End Test Date for a Dividend Period as to which the Corporation fails the test set forth in Section 5(a)(ii) through
the first Quarter End thereafter as of which the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount has declined by less than 10% or increased as compared to such amount on the Benchmark Quarter End Test Date shall not be taken into account in calculating
the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount as of such Quarter End during such period.      (b)  Annual Statement 
means, as to an Insurance Subsidiary, the annual statement of such Insurance Subsidiary containing its statutory balance sheet and income statement as required to be filed by it with one or more state insurance commissioners or other state insurance
regulatory authorities.      (c)  Benchmark Quarter End Test Date  has the meaning specified in Section 5(a)(ii).
     (d)  By-Laws  means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time.
     (e)  Business Day  means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is not a day on which
banking institutions in New York City generally are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.      (f)
 Certificate of Designations  means this Certificate of Designations relating to the Series B Preferred Stock, as it may be amended from time to time.      (g)  Certification of Incorporation  shall mean the amended and restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this
Certificate of Designations.      (h)  Commission  means the Securities and Exchange Commission.   
  (i)  Common Stock  means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.   
  (j)  Company-Action-Level RBC  has the meaning specified in subsection J of Section 1 (or the relevant successor section,
if any) of the Model Act.      (k)  Consolidated Net Income Amount  means, for any fiscal quarter of the Corporation,
its consolidated net income as reflected on its consolidated balance sheet for such fiscal quarter, subject to Section 5(d)(iv).   
         2   

(l)  Covered Insurance Subsidiaries  means, as of any Year End, Insurance
Subsidiaries that collectively account for 80% or more of the combined General Account Admitted Assets of the Insurance Subsidiaries as of such Year End. The Insurance Subsidiaries as of a Year End shall be identified by first ranking the Insurance
Subsidiaries from largest to smallest based upon the amount of each Insurance Subsidiary s General Account Admitted Assets and then, beginning with the Insurance Subsidiary that has the largest amount of General Account Admitted Assets as of
such Year End, identifying such Insurance Subsidiaries as Covered Insurance Subsidiaries until the ratio of the combined General Account Admitted Assets of the Insurance Subsidiaries so identified to the combined General Account Admitted Assets of
all of the Insurance Subsidiaries as of such Year End equals or exceeds 80%.      (m)  Covered Insurance Subsidiaries 
Most Recent Weighted Average NAIC RBC Ratio  means, as of any date, an amount (expressed as a percentage) calculated as:      the sum of the Total Adjusted Capital of each of the Covered Insurance Subsidiaries as shown on such Covered Insurance Subsidiary s most recently filed Annual Statement, divided by   
  the sum of the Company-Action-Level RBC of each of the Covered Insurance Subsidiaries as shown on such Covered Insurance
Subsidiary s most recently filed Annual Statement.      (n)  Dividend Declaration Date  has the meaning specified
in Section 5(a).      (o)  Exchange Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   
  (p)  Final Quarter End Test Date  and  Preliminary Quarter End Test Date  mean, with respect to a Dividend Payment
Date in the relevant month indicated under  Dividend Payment Date  in the table set forth below, the related date indicated under  Final Quarter End Test Date  or  Preliminary Quarter End Test Date  (as applicable) in
such table:       

Dividend  
  Payment Date   
     
    Preliminary  
  Quarter End Test Date   
     
    Final  
  Quarter End Test Date    

In March   
     
  The June 30 preceding such Dividend Payment Date  
     
  The December 31 preceding such Dividend Payment Date   

In June   
     
  The September 30 preceding such Dividend Payment Date  
     
  The March 31 preceding such Dividend Payment Date   

In September   
     
  The December 31 preceding such Dividend Payment Date  
     
  The June 30 preceding such Dividend Payment Date   

In December   
     
  The March 31 preceding such Dividend Payment Date  
     
  The September 30 preceding such Dividend Payment Date   
 
         3   

(q)  General Account Admitted Assets  means, as to an Insurance Subsidiary as of
any Year End, the total admitted assets of such Insurance Subsidiary as reflected on the statutory balance sheet included in its Annual Statement as of such Year End minus the separate account assets reflected on such statutory balance sheet.
     (r)  Insurance Subsidiary  means a subsidiary of the Corporation that is organized under the laws of any state in
the United States and is licensed as a life insurance company in any state in the United States, but does not include any subsidiary of an Insurance Subsidiary.      (s)  Junior Stock  means the Common Stock, the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Series B Preferred Stock) that
ranks junior to Series B Preferred Stock either or both as to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or as to the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation, including the Convertible Non-Voting Participating Preferred Stock, if issued to Citigroup Inc. in connection with the Acquisition Agreement, dated as of January 31, 2005, as amended, by and between Citigroup Inc. and MetLife, Inc.
     (t)  Model Act  means the Risk-Based Capital (RBC) for Insurers Model Act as prepared by the NAIC and included in
its Model Laws, Regulations and Guidelines as of June 6, 2005 and as hereafter amended, modified or supplemented.      (u)
 NAIC  means the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.      (v)  New Common Equity Amount  means,
at any date, the net proceeds (after underwriters  or placement agents  fees, commissions or discounts and other expenses relating to the issuances) received by the Corporation from new issuances of Common Stock (whether in one or more
public offerings registered under the Securities Act or private placements or other transactions exempt from registration under the Securities Act) during the period commencing on the 90th day prior to such date.   
  (w)  Parity Stock  means the Series A Preferred Stock and any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Series B
Preferred Stock) that ranks equally with the Series B Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation.      (x)  Preferred Stock  means any and all series of preferred stock, having a par value of $0.01 per
share, of the Corporation, including the Series B Preferred Stock.      (y)  Quarter End  means the last day of each
fiscal quarter of the Corporation (i.e., March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31).   
         4   

(z)  Securities Act  means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.   
  (aa)  Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock  means the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $0.01
per share, of the Corporation.      (bb)  Series A Preferred Stock  means the Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred
Stock, Series A, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.      (cc)  Total Adjusted Capital  has the meaning
specified in subsection M of Section 1 (or the relevant successor section, if any) of the Model Act.      (dd)  Trailing
Four Quarters Consolidated Net Income  means, for any period ending on a Quarter End, the sum of the Consolidated Net Income Amounts for the Corporation s four fiscal quarters ending as of such Quarter End, with losses being treated as
negative numbers for such purpose.      (ee)  Voting Preferred Stock  means, with regard to any election or removal of a
Preferred Stock Director (as defined in Section 8(b) below) or any other matter as to which the holders of Series B Preferred Stock are entitled to vote as specified in Section 8 of this Certificate of Designations, any and all series of
Preferred Stock (other than Series B Preferred Stock) that rank equally with Series B Preferred Stock either as to the payment of dividends or as to the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon
which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.      (ff)  U.S. GAAP 
means, at any date or for any period, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles as in effect on such date or for such period.      (gg)  Year End  means the last day of each fiscal year of the Corporation.   
         5   

SECTION 4. DIVIDENDS.   
  (a) RATE. Holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-cumulative cash dividends at the annual rate of 6.500% applied to the liquidation preference amount of $25.00 per
share of Series B Preferred Stock. Such dividends shall be payable quarterly in arrears (as provided below in this Section 4(a)), but only when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of
Directors, on March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15 (each, a  Dividend Payment Date ), commencing on September 15, 2005; provided that if any such Dividend Payment Date would otherwise occur on
a day that is not a Business Day, such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any dividend payable on Series B Preferred Stock on such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be payable on) the immediately succeeding Business Day. Dividends on
Series B Preferred Stock shall not be cumulative; holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to receive any dividends not declared by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and no interest, or
sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend not so declared.      Dividends that are payable on
Series B Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series B Preferred Stock as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day before
such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a  Dividend
Record Date ). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.      Each dividend period (a  Dividend Period ) shall commence on and include a Dividend Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which shall commence on and include the date of original
issue of the Series B Preferred Stock, provided that, for any share of Series B Preferred Stock issued after such original issue date, the initial Dividend Period for such shares may commence on and include such other date as the Board of Directors
or the Committee or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall determine and publicly disclose) and shall end on and include the calendar day preceding the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the Series B Preferred
Stock in respect of any Dividend Period shall be computed by the Calculation Agent on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, except that dividends for the initial period will be calculated from the original issue date.
Dividends payable in respect of a Dividend Period shall be payable in arrears (i.e., on the first Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Period).      Holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series B
Preferred Stock as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designations).   
         6   

(b) PRIORITY OF DIVIDENDS. So long as any shares of Series B Preferred Stock remain
outstanding for any Dividend Period, unless the full dividends for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock and Parity Stock have been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the
payment thereof has been set aside), no dividend shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock), and no Common Stock or other Junior Stock shall be purchased,
redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for
or into another share of Junior Stock and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of Junior Stock) during a Dividend Period.      When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) in full on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different
from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period) upon the Series B Preferred Stock and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on the Series B Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock and
payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date)
shall be declared pro rata so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series B Preferred Stock and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment
Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) bear to each other.   
  SECTION 5. MANDATORY SUSPENSION OF DIVIDENDS.      (a) TESTS FOR SUSPENSION. Notwithstanding Section 4(a), neither the Board of Directors nor any committee of the Board of Directors may declare dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock for payment on
any Dividend Payment Date in an aggregate amount exceeding the New Common Equity Amount as of the date of declaration (the  Dividend Declaration Date ) for such Dividend Payment Date if:   
  (i) the Covered Insurance Subsidiaries  Most Recent Weighted Average NAIC RBC Ratio was less than 175% (subject to
Section 5(d)(iii)); or      (ii) (x) the Trailing Four Quarters Consolidated Net Income Amount for the
period ending on the Preliminary Quarter End Test Date for such Dividend Payment Date is zero or a negative amount and (y) the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount as of each of the Preliminary Quarter End Test Date and the Final Quarter
End Test Date for such Dividend Payment Date has declined by 10% or more as compared to the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount as of the tenth Quarter End prior to such Final Quarter End Test Date (such date for such Dividend Payment Date and
related Final Quarter End Test Date, the  Benchmark Quarter End Test Date ).   
         7   

Additionally, and without limiting the foregoing provisions of this Section 5(a), if
the Corporation has failed the test in Section 5(a)(ii) as to a prior Dividend Payment Date, then neither the Board of Directors nor any committee of the Board of Directors may declare dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock for payment
thereafter in an aggregate amount exceeding the New Common Equity Amount as of the Dividend Declaration Date for such prior Dividend Payment Date until the Dividend Declaration Date for the first Dividend Payment Date for which, as of the related
Final Quarter End Test Date, the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount has increased or has declined by less than 10%, in either case as compared to the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount as of the Benchmark Quarter End Test Date for such
prior Dividend Payment Date.      (b) POTENTIAL DIVIDEND SUSPENSION NOTICE. If as of the Preliminary Quarter End Test Date for any
Dividend Payment Date (x) the Trailing Four Quarters Consolidated Net Income Amount for the period ending on such Preliminary Quarter End Test Date is zero or a negative amount and (y) the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount as of
such Preliminary Quarter End Test Date has declined by 10% or more as compared to the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount as of the Benchmark Quarter End Test Date for such Dividend Payment Date, then the Corporation shall give notice of such
circumstance by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation, and shall file a copy of such notice on
Form 8-K with the Commission (or, if the Corporation is not then a reporting company under the Exchange Act, post a copy of such notice on the Corporation s website), by not later than the first Dividend Payment Date following such Preliminary
Quarter End Test Date. Such notice shall (i) set forth the Trailing Four Quarters Consolidated Net Income Amount for the period ending on such Preliminary Quarter End Test Date and the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount as of such
Preliminary Quarter End Test Date and as of the Benchmark Quarter End Test Date, and (ii) state that the Corporation may be precluded by the terms of the Series B Preferred Stock from declaring and paying dividends on such Dividend Payment Date
unless the Corporation, through the generation of earnings or issuance of new common equity, increases its Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount by an amount specified in such notice by the second Quarter End after the date of such notice. The
Corporation need not give any notice under this Section 5(b) during any period in which the Corporation s ability to declare and pay dividends is limited by reason of the application of Section 5(a).   
  (c) DIVIDEND SUSPENSION NOTICE. By not later than the 15th day prior to each Dividend Payment Date for which dividends are being
suspended by reason of the tests set forth in Section 5(a), the Corporation shall give notice of such suspension by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock at their
respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation, and shall file a copy of such notice on Form 8-K with the Commission (or, if the Corporation is not then a reporting company under the Exchange Act, post a copy of such notice on
the Corporation s website). Such notice, in addition to stating that dividends will be suspended, shall (i) if dividends are suspended by reason of the test set forth in Section 5(a)(i), state that the Covered Insurance
Subsidiaries  Most Recent Weighted Average NAIC RBC Ratio is less than 175% and (ii) if such suspension is by reason of the test set forth in Section 5(a)(ii), set forth the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount as of the most
recent Quarter End and the amount by which the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount must increase in order for declaration and payment of dividends to be resumed.   
         8   

(d) INTERPRETIVE PROVISIONS; QUALIFICATIONS, ETC. In order to give effect to the foregoing,
the following provisions apply:      (i) Neither the Board of Directors nor a committee of the Board of Directors may declare
dividends on any date that (x) in the case of a Dividend Declaration Date relating to a Dividend Payment Date in March in any year, is before March 5 in such year, and (y) in the case of a Dividend Declaration Date for a Dividend
Payment Date in June, September or December of any year, is before the immediately preceding May 15 (in the case of a June Dividend Payment Date), August 15 (in the case of a September Dividend Payment Date), and November 15 (in the
case of a December Dividend Payment Date).      (ii) Except as expressly provided otherwise in this Section 5
or in Section 3, all references in this Section 5 to financial statements of the Corporation shall be deemed to be to financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, consistently applied, and, for so long as the Corporation is
a reporting company under the Exchange Act, filed by the Corporation with the Commission under the Exchange Act. If at any relevant time or for any relevant period the Corporation is not a reporting company under the Exchange Act, then (x) for
all relevant dates and periods the Corporation shall prepare and post on its website the financial statements that it would have been required to file with the Commission had it continued to be a reporting company under the Exchange Act, in each
case on or before the dates that the Corporation would have been required to file such financial statements with the Commission under the Exchange Act had it continued to be an  accelerated filer  within the meaning of Rule 12b-2 under the
Exchange Act, and (y) the provisions of this Section 5 shall be read mutatis mutandis to give effect to such provision.      (iii) The limitation on dividends provided for in Section 5(a)(i) shall be of no force and effect if, as of a Dividend Declaration Date, the combined total assets of the Insurance Subsidiaries do not
account for 25% or more of the consolidated total assets of the Corporation as reflected on its most recent consolidated financial statements filed with the Commission or, in case Section 5(d)(ii) then applies, posted on the Corporation s
website.      (iv) All financial terms used in this Section 5 that are not specifically defined, including
financial terms used within the definitions of defined terms, shall be determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP as applied to and reflected in the related financial statements of the Corporation as of the relevant dates and for the relevant period,
except as provided in the next sentence. If because of a change in U.S. GAAP that results in a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle or a restatement:   
         9   

(x) Consolidated Net Income for a period is lower or higher than it would
have been absent such change, then, for purposes of the calculations under Section 5(a)(ii) for the four fiscal quarters of the Corporation commencing with the fiscal quarter for which such change in U.S. GAAP becomes effective, Consolidated
Net Income shall be calculated on a pro forma basis without giving effect to such change in U.S. GAAP; or      (y)
the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount as of a Quarter End (whether or not a Preliminary Quarter End Test Date or a Final Quarter End Test Date) is lower or higher than it would have been absent such change, then, for purposes of the
calculations under Section 5(a)(ii) and the last sentence of Section 5(a), the Adjusted Shareholders  Equity Amount shall be calculated on a pro forma basis without giving effect to such change in U.S. GAAP, commencing with the first
Quarter End as of which such change in U.S. GAAP becomes effective and continuing through (A) for purposes of Section 5(a)(ii), the tenth Quarter End thereafter, and (B) for purposes of the last sentence of Section 5(a), the
Quarter End immediately preceding the first Dividend Payment Date for which the payment of dividends is not restricted by such sentence.      SECTION 6. LIQUIDATION RIGHTS.      (a) VOLUNTARY OR INVOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION. In the
event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof
(whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, and after satisfaction of all liabilities and obligations to creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or
set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other Junior Stock, in full an amount equal to $25.00 per share, together with an amount equal to all dividends (if any) that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such
distribution (but without any amount in respect of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date).      (b)
PARTIAL PAYMENT. If in any distribution described in Section 6(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preferences (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series B Preferred
Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series B Preferred Stock and to the holders of all such other Parity Stock shall be paid pro rata in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preferences of
the holders of Series B Preferred Stock and the holders of all such other Parity Stock. In any such distribution, the  Liquidation Preference  of any holder of Preferred Stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to
such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series B
Preferred Stock and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid, accrued cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable).   
         10   

(c) RESIDUAL DISTRIBUTIONS. If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all
holders of Series B Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.
     (d) MERGER, CONSOLIDATION AND SALE OF ASSETS NOT LIQUIDATION. For purposes of this Section 6, the merger or
consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series B Preferred Stock receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or
exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.   
  SECTION 7. REDEMPTION.      (a) OPTIONAL REDEMPTION. The Series B Preferred Stock may not be redeemed by the Corporation prior to September 15, 2010. On or after September 15, 2010, the Corporation, at its option, may
redeem, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, the shares of Series B Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 7(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $25.00 per share, together (except as
otherwise provided hereinbelow) with an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid prior to the redemption date (but with no amount in respect of any dividends that have not been declared prior to such date). The redemption
price for any shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends
payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record
of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above.   
  (b) NO SINKING FUND. The Series B Preferred Stock will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund, retirement fund or
purchase fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Series B Preferred Stock will have no right to require redemption, repurchase or retirement of any shares of Series B Preferred Stock.   
  (c) NOTICE OF REDEMPTION. Notice of every redemption of shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be given by first class mail, postage
prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for
redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the
mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series B Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series B Preferred Stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the
Series B Preferred Stock or any depositary shares representing interests in the Series B Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption
  
         11   

may be given to the holders of Series B Preferred Stock at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date;
(2) the number of shares of Series B Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and
(4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.   
  (d) PARTIAL REDEMPTION. In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the
shares to be redeemed shall be selected either pro rata or in such other manner as the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms
and conditions upon which shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without
charge to the holder thereof.      (e) EFFECTIVENESS OF REDEMPTION. If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or
before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the pro rata benefit of the holders of the shares called for
redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to
accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of
the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time
the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.      SECTION 8. VOTING RIGHTS.      (a) GENERAL. The holders of Series B Preferred Stock
shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by law.      (b) RIGHT TO
ELECT TWO DIRECTORS UPON NONPAYMENT EVENTS. If and whenever dividends on any shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall not have been declared and paid for at least six Dividend Periods, whether or not consecutive (a  Nonpayment Event ), the
number of directors then constituting the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of Series B Preferred Stock, together with the holders of any outstanding shares of Voting Preferred Stock, voting together as a
single class, shall be entitled to elect the two additional directors (the  Preferred Stock Directors ), provided that it shall be a qualification for election for any such Preferred Stock Director that the election of such director shall
not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded) that listed or
traded companies must have a majority of independent directors.   
         12   

In the event that the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock, and such other holders of
Voting Preferred Stock, shall be entitled to vote for the election of the Preferred Stock Directors following a Nonpayment Event, such directors shall be initially elected following such Nonpayment Event only at a special meeting called at the
request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series B Preferred Stock or of any other such series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (unless such request for a special meeting is received less than 90 days before the date fixed
for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation, in which event such election shall be held only at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders of the
Corporation. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event shall be made by written notice, signed by the requisite holders of Series B Preferred Stock or Voting Preferred
Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 10 below, or as may otherwise be required by law.      When dividends have been paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) in full on the Series B Preferred Stock for at least four Dividend Periods (whether or not consecutive) after
a Nonpayment Event, then the right of the holders of Series B Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall cease (but subject always to revesting of such voting rights in the case of any future Nonpayment Event pursuant to this
Section 8 and the number of Dividend Periods in which dividends have not been declared and paid shall be reset to zero), and, if and when any rights of holders of Series B Preferred Stock and Voting Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Stock
Directors shall have ceased, the terms of office of all the Preferred Stock Directors shall forthwith terminate and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall automatically be reduced accordingly.   
  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of
the Series B Preferred Stock and Voting Preferred Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class). So long as a Nonpayment Event shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director
(other than prior to the initial election of Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a vote of the holders of
record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series B Preferred Stock and Voting Preferred Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class). Any such vote of stockholders to remove, or to fill a
vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock Director may be taken only at a special meeting of such stockholders, called as provided above for an initial election of Preferred Stock Director after a Nonpayment Event (unless such request is received
less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be
entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote. Each Preferred Stock Director elected at any special meeting of stockholders or by written consent of the other Preferred Stock Director shall
hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders if such office shall not have previously terminated as above provided.   
         13   

(c) OTHER VOTING RIGHTS. So long as any shares of Series B Preferred Stock are outstanding,
in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock and any Voting Preferred Stock (subject
to the last paragraph of this Section 8(c)) at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the
purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:      (i) AUTHORIZATION OF SENIOR STOCK. Any amendment or
alteration of the Certificate of Incorporation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series B Preferred Stock with respect to either
or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;      (ii) AMENDMENT OF SERIES B PREFERRED STOCK. Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights,
preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series B Preferred Stock, taken as a whole; or      (iii) SHARE
EXCHANGES, RECLASSIFICATIONS, MERGERS AND CONSOLIDATIONS. Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series B Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other
entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series B Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or
exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting
powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series B
Preferred Stock immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;      provided, however, that for all purposes of this Section 8(c),
any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series B Preferred Stock or authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking equally
with and/or junior to the Series B Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation
will not be deemed to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series B Preferred Stock.      If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 8(c) would materially and adversely affect the Series B Preferred Stock and
one or more but not all other series of Preferred Stock, then only the Series B Preferred Stock and such series of Preferred Stock as are materially and adversely affected by      and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock).   
         14   

(d) CHANGES FOR CLARIFICATION. Without the consent of the holders of the Series B Preferred
Stock, so long as such action does not adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series B Preferred Stock, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal
any terms of the Series B Preferred Stock:      (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any
provision contained in this Certificate of Designations that may be defective or inconsistent; or      (ii) to
make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the Series B Preferred Stock that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.   
  (e) CHANGES AFTER PROVISION FOR REDEMPTION. No vote or consent of the holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to
Section 8(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or shall have
been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 7 above.      (f) PROCEDURES FOR VOTING AND CONSENTS. The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series B Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record
date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of
Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the By-Laws, applicable law and any
national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series B Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series B Preferred
Stock and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the
shares voted or covered by the consent.      SECTION 9. RECORD HOLDERS. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the
Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series B Preferred Stock may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series B Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer
agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.   
         15   

SECTION 10. NOTICES. All notices or communications in respect of Series B Preferred Stock
shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail,      postage prepaid, or if given in such other
manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws or by applicable law.      SECTION 11. NO PREEMPTIVE RIGHTS. No share of Series B Preferred Stock shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or
granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.      SECTION 12. OTHER RIGHTS. The shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations
or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.   
         16   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, METLIFE, INC. has caused this certificate to be signed by Anthony J.
Williamson, its Senior Vice President and Treasurer, this 9th day of June, 2005.        

METLIFE, INC.    

By  
     
    /s/ Anthony J. Williamson    

Anthony J. Williamson   

Senior Vice President and Treasurer   

</EX-3.4>

<EX-3.5>
 6
 d302570dex35.htm
 CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS

Certificate of Designations 

Exhibit 3.5       C ERTIFICATE   OF  D ESIGNATIONS    
   OF    
  S ERIES  B C ONTINGENT  C ONVERTIBLE  J UNIOR  P ARTICIPATING 
N ON -C UMULATIVE       P ERPETUAL  P REFERRED  S TOCK    
   OF    
  M ET L IFE , I NC .      MetLife, Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the   Corporation ,  which term shall include the successors of MetLife,
Inc.), in accordance with the provisions of Sections 103 and 151 thereof, does hereby certify:      The Finance and Risk Committee
(the   Committee  ) of the board of directors of the Corporation (the   Board of Directors  ), in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated March 7, 2010 and April 27, 2010, the
provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws of the Corporation and applicable law, adopted the following resolution creating a series of shares of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation designated as
 Series B Contingent Convertible Junior Participating Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock  at a meeting of the Committee on October 26, 2010.      R ESOLVED , that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated March 7, 2010 and April 27, 2010, the
provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of
such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:   
   Section 1.  Designation  . The distinctive serial designation of such series of Preferred Stock is  Series B
Contingent Convertible Junior Participating Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock  (  Series B Preferred Stock  ). Each share of Series B Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series B
Preferred Stock. The Series B Preferred Stock shall have a par value of $0.01 per share.       Section 2.  Number of
Shares  . The authorized number of shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be 6,857,000. Shares of Series B Preferred Stock that are purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into shares of Common Stock, shall not be
reissued as shares of such series and shall, upon filing of the appropriate certificate with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock.   
         1   

Section 3.  Definitions  . As used herein with respect to Series B Preferred
Stock:      (a)   Affiliate   of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or
controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition,  control,  when used with respect to any specified Person, means the power to direct the management and policies of
such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms  controlling  and  controlled  have meanings correlative to the foregoing.   
  (b)   Business Day   means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banking institutions in New York,
New York are authorized or required by law or executive order to remain closed.      (c)   By-Laws   means the
amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time.      (d)   Certificate of
Designations   means this Certificate of Designations relating to the Series B Preferred Stock, as it may be amended from time to time.      (e)   Certificate of Incorporation   shall mean the amended and restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this
Certificate of Designations.      (f) The term   close of business   on any day means 5:00 P.M., New York City
time, on such day.      (g)   Common Stock   means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share (or such other par
value, or no par value, as such common stock may have from time to time), of the Corporation.      (h)   Common Stock
Distribution   has the meaning set forth in Section 5(b).      (i)   Common Stock Distribution Date  
has the meaning set forth in Section 5(b).      (j)   Common Stock Distribution Record Date   has the meaning
set forth in Section 5(b).      (k)   Constituent Person   has the meaning set forth in Section 10(d).
     (l)   Conversion Rate   means the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of one
(1) share of Series B Preferred Stock, which Conversion Rate shall initially be ten (10) shares of Common Stock per share of Series B Preferred Stock, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 10(c).   
         2   

(m)   Distributed Property   has the meaning set forth in Section 5(b).
     (n)   Dividend Parity Stock   means all classes or series of stock of the Corporation (other than the Series B
Preferred Stock) ranking on parity with the Series B Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends.      (o)
  Holder   means a Person in whose name one or more shares of the Series B Preferred Stock are registered.      (p)
  Indemnification Security Agreement   means the Indemnification Collateral Account Security and Control Agreement, dated as of November 1, 2010, by and among the Corporation, in its capacity as Secured Party, ALICO Holdings LLC,
in its capacity as Pledgor, Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, in its capacities as Securities Intermediary and Pledge Collateral Agent, and, for certain limited purposes, Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, in its capacity as Stock Purchase
Contract Agent under the Pledge Agreement.      (q)   Junior Stock   means the Common Stock and any other class or
series of stock of the Corporation, other than Series B Preferred Stock, that ranks junior to Series B Preferred Stock either or both as to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or as to the
distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.      (r)   Liquidation
Preference   has the meaning set forth in Section 6(b).      (s)   Liquidation Preference Amount  
means one cent ($0.01) per share of Series B Preferred Stock.      (t)   Mandatory Conversion Date   means the
third (3rd) Business Day immediately after the date the Corporation obtains the Stockholder Approval.      (u)
  Market Disruption Event   means any of the following events that the Corporation, in its reasonable discretion, determines has occurred and is material:   
  (i) the occurrence or existence, for an aggregate period of at least thirty (30) minutes or during the one-hour
period prior to the close of trading for the regular trading session on the Relevant Exchange, of any suspension of, or limitation imposed on, trading by the Relevant Exchange, whether by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by
the Relevant Exchange, or otherwise: (1) relating to Common Stock; or (2) in futures or options contracts relating to the Common Stock on the Relevant Exchange;   
  (ii) any event (other than an event described in clause (iii) below) that disrupts or impairs the ability of market
participants, for an aggregate period of at least thirty (30) minutes or during the one-hour period prior to the close of trading for the regular trading session on the Relevant Exchange in general: (1) to effect transactions in, or obtain
market values for, the Common Stock on the Relevant Exchange; or (2) to effect transactions in, or obtain market values for, futures or options contracts relating to the Common Stock on the Relevant Exchange; or   
         3   

(iii) the failure to open of the Relevant Exchange on which futures or
options contracts relating to the Common Stock are traded or the closure of such exchange prior to its respective scheduled closing time for the regular trading session on such day (without regard to after hours or any other trading outside of the
regular trading session hours) unless such earlier closing time is announced by such exchange at least one hour prior to the earlier of: (1) the actual closing time for the regular trading session on such day, and (2) the submission
deadline for orders to be entered into such exchange for execution at the actual closing time on such day.      (v)
  Non-Electing Share   has the meaning set forth in Section 10(d).      (w)   Non-Partial Common Stock
Distribution   means a transaction that both (i) requires the Conversion Rate to be adjusted pursuant to Section 10(c) and (ii) is not a Partial Common Stock Distribution.   
  (x)   Nonpayment Event   has the meaning specified in Section 9(b).   
  (y) The term   open of business   on any day means 9:00 A.M., New York City time, on such day.   
  (z)   Parity Stock   means the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock and each other class or series of stock of
the Corporation, other than Series B Preferred Stock, that ranks equally with the Series B Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.      (aa)   Partial Common Stock Distribution   has the meaning
specified in Section 10(c).      (bb)   Person   means a legal person, including any individual, corporation,
estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint stock company, company, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated association, or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof, or any other entity of whatever nature.
     (cc)   Preferred Stock   means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Series
B Preferred Stock.      (dd)   Preferred Stock Directors   has the meaning specified in Section 9(b).
     (ee)   Record Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 5(c).   
         4   

(ff)   Reference Property   has the meaning set forth in Section 10(d).
     (gg)   Relevant Exchange   means the New York Stock Exchange;  provided ,  however , that if the
Common Stock is not listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange, then  Relevant Exchange  means the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed;  provided further , that if the
Common Stock is not listed on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, then  Relevant Exchange  means the over-the-counter market on which the Common Stock is traded.   
  (hh)   Reorganization Event   has the meaning set forth in Section 10(d).   
  (ii)   Representative Holder   has the meaning set forth in Section 10(d).   
  (jj)   Senior Stock   means all Preferred Stock that ranks senior to the Series B Preferred Stock in the distribution of
assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.      (kk)   Series A Junior Participating
Preferred Stock   means the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.      (ll)   Stockholder Approval   means the receipt of all approvals of the stockholders of the Corporation necessary, pursuant to Section 312.03 of the New York Stock Exchange Listed
Company Manual, to approve the conversion of each outstanding share of Series B Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Rate.      (mm)   Trading Day   means any day during which both of the following conditions are satisfied: (i) trading in the Common Stock generally occurs on the Relevant Exchange; and
(ii) there is no Market Disruption Event.      (nn)   Voting Parity Preferred Stock   has the meaning
specified in Section 9(b).      (oo)   VWAP   per share of Common Stock on any Trading Day means the
volume-weighted average price per share of Common Stock in respect of the period from 9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. (New York City time) on such Trading Day, as displayed under the heading  Bloomberg VWAP  on Bloomberg page  MET.N
 equity  AQR  (or its equivalent successor if such page is not available);  provided ,  however , that if such volume-weighted average price shall not be available on such Trading Day, then VWAP on such Trading Day shall be
determined, using a volume-weighted average method, by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained for such purpose by the Corporation.       Section 4.  Ranking  . The Series B Preferred Stock will, with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets
on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, rank (i) on parity with Parity Stock and (ii) senior to Junior Stock.   
         5   

Section 5.  Dividends  .   
  (a) Holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors, out of funds or property legally available therefor under Delaware law, non-cumulative dividends and distributions, if any, in the amount, kind and manner set forth in Section 5(b). Except as
provided in the immediately preceding sentence, in Section 5(b) or in Section 6, Holders shall not be entitled to any other dividends or distributions on the Series B Preferred Stock. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary,
(i) dividends and distributions on the Series B Preferred Stock shall not be cumulative; (ii) Holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to receive any dividends or distributions not declared by the Board of Directors or a
duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors; and (iii) no interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend or distribution not so declared.   
  (b) If the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors declares a dividend, or the Corporation otherwise
makes any distribution, on all outstanding shares of Common Stock, of cash, securities (including, without limitation, rights, warrants, options or evidences of indebtedness) or other property or assets (in each case excluding Non-Partial Common
Stock Distributions and Reorganization Events) (such a dividend or distribution, a   Common Stock Distribution ,  and the cash, securities, property or assets dividended or distributed on the Common Stock pursuant to such Common Stock
Distribution, subject to the last sentence of Section 10(c), the   Distributed Property ,  and the date such Distributed Property is paid to holders of Common Stock pursuant to such Common Stock Distribution, the   Common
Stock Distribution Date ,  and the record date for determining the holders of Common Stock entitled to receive such Common Stock Distribution, the   Common Stock Distribution Record Date  ), then the Board of Directors or a
duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall, in accordance with this Section 5(b), declare to be paid, or cause there to be distributed, to the Holders of the Series B Preferred Stock, Distributed Property in accordance with this
Section 5(b). The date on which such Distributed Property is to be paid to Holders of the Series B Preferred Stock on account of such Common Stock Distribution shall be the Common Stock Distribution Date, and the kind and amount of Distributed
Property to be dividended or distributed per share of Series B Preferred Stock shall be the kind and amount of Distributed Property that a holder of a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate in effect at the close of business
on the Common Stock Distribution Record Date for such Common Stock Distribution would have been entitled to receive pursuant to such Common Stock Distribution. The Corporation shall not declare any Common Stock Distribution unless the Corporation
has funds legally available to comply, and complies, with this Section 5(b) with respect to such Common Stock Distribution. For avoidance of doubt, no dividend or distribution shall be payable on the Series B Preferred Stock pursuant to this
Section 5(b) unless there shall occur a Common Stock Distribution. For avoidance of doubt, if (1) in connection with a Reorganization Event, the Board of Directors or a duly   
         6   

authorized committee of the Board of Directors declares a dividend, or the Corporation otherwise makes any distribution, on all outstanding shares of Common Stock and (2) in connection with
such Reorganization Event, the Common Stock is converted into or exchanged for, or constitutes solely the right to receive, cash, securities or other property, then (x) such dividend or distribution shall be subject to this Section 5(b)
but not to Section 10(d) and (y) such conversion into, exchange for or right to receive cash, securities or other property shall be subject to Section 10(d) but not to this Section 5(b).   
  (c) Dividends or distributions that are payable on Series B Preferred Stock on a Common Stock Distribution Date pursuant to
Section 5(b) on account of a Common Stock Distribution will be payable to holders of record of Series B Preferred Stock as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation at the close of business on the date (each such date, a
  Record Date  ) that is the Common Stock Distribution Record Date for such Common Stock Distribution.      (d) If
the Mandatory Conversion Date with respect to any share of Series B Preferred Stock is on or prior to a Record Date for a dividend or distribution on the Series B Preferred Stock pursuant to Section 5(b), then the Holder of such share of Series
B Preferred Stock shall not have the right to receive such dividend or distribution. If the Mandatory Conversion Date with respect to any share of Series B Preferred Stock is after a Record Date for a dividend or distribution on the Series B
Preferred Stock pursuant to Section 5(b) but on or prior to the date such dividend or distribution is to be made, then the Holder of such share of Series B Preferred Stock at the close of business on such Record Date shall have the right to
receive such dividend or distribution notwithstanding such conversion.      (e) For purposes of this Certificate of Designations,
dividends and distributions will be deemed to have been declared and paid in full on the Series B Preferred Stock during a calendar quarter or any other period if there exists no Common Stock Distribution whose Common Stock Distribution Date occurs
during such calendar quarter or period, as applicable.       Section 6.  Liquidation Rights  .   
  (a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, the Holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, per share of Series B Preferred Stock, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof legally available for distribution
to stockholders of the Corporation, and after satisfaction of all liabilities and obligations to creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Junior Stock, in full an
amount equal to the Liquidation Preference Amount per share, together with all dividends (if any) that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such distribution.   
         7   

(b)  Partial Payment . If, in any distribution described in Section 6(a) above,
the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preferences in full to all holders of Series B Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, then the amounts paid to the holders of Series B
Preferred Stock and to the holders of all such other Parity Stock shall be paid pro rata in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preferences of the holders of Series B Preferred Stock and the holders of all such other Parity Stock.
In any such distribution, the   Liquidation Preference   of any holder of Preferred Stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the
Corporation available for such distribution), including any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series B Preferred Stock and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, any unpaid, accrued
cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable).      (c)  Residual Distributions . In the event of any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, if the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series B Preferred Stock and all Parity Stock and Senior Stock, then
the Holders shall (subject to the rights of any other series of Preferred Stock that is not Junior Stock to similarly be treated as holders of Common Stock) thereafter be treated as holders of Common Stock, determined as if each share of Series B
Preferred Stock were converted into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Rate in effect at the time of such liquidation, dissolution or winding up.      (d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 6, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity,
including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series B Preferred Stock receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of
the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.   
   Section 7.  No Redemption  . The Series B Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable at the election of the Corporation.
      Section 8.  Maturity  . The Series B Preferred Stock shall be perpetual unless converted in accordance
herewith.       Section 9.  Voting Rights  .   
  (a)  General . The Holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise
from time to time required by law.      (b)  Right to Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends
on any shares of Series B Preferred Stock that are required, pursuant to Section 5(b), to be declared and paid have not been so declared and paid for at least six (6) calendar quarters, whether or not consecutive (a   Nonpayment
Event  ), the number of directors then constituting the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two (2) and the holders of Series B Preferred Stock, together with the holders of any
  
         8   

outstanding shares of Dividend Parity Stock similarly entitled to vote for the election of a total of two (2) additional directors (  Voting Parity Preferred Stock  ), voting
together as a single class, shall be entitled to elect the two (2) additional directors (the   Preferred Stock Directors    provided ,  however , that, as a condition to exercising such right to so elect such
Preferred Stock Directors, the election of no such Preferred Stock Director shall cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which its securities may be listed) that
listed companies must have a majority of independent directors.      If the Holders of the Series B Preferred Stock, and such
other holders of Voting Parity Preferred Stock, shall be entitled to vote for the election of the Preferred Stock Directors following a Nonpayment Event, then such directors shall be initially elected following such Nonpayment Event only at a
special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least twenty percent (20%) of the Series B Preferred Stock or of any other such series of Voting Parity Preferred Stock then outstanding, and at each subsequent annual meeting
of stockholders of the Corporation at which time such Nonpayment Event shall be continuing. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event shall be made by written notice,
signed by the requisite holders of Series B Preferred Stock or Voting Parity Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation, or as may otherwise be required by law.   
  When dividends have been paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) in full on the Series B Preferred Stock
for at least four (4) calendar quarters (whether or not consecutive) after a Nonpayment Event, then (1) such Nonpayment Event shall be deemed to have ceased; (2) the number of calendar quarters in which dividends have not been
declared and paid shall, for purposes of this Section 9, be reset to zero (0); (3) the right of the holders of Series B Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Stock Directors on account of such Nonpayment Event shall cease (but subject
always to revesting of such voting rights in the case of any      future Nonpayment Event pursuant to this Section 9);
(4) the terms of office of all the Preferred Stock Directors shall forthwith terminate; and (5) the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall automatically be reduced accordingly. For avoidance of doubt,
 full  dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock shall in no event include any arrearage, or any dividends that would accrue on unpaid dividends or distributions, had dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock been cumulative.   
  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of
the Series B Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Preferred Stock, when they have the voting rights set forth above in this Section 9 (voting together as a single class). So long as a Nonpayment Event shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a
Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election of Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a
vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series B Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Preferred Stock, when they have the voting rights set forth above in this Section 9 (voting together as a single class).
Each such vote   
         9   

of stockholders to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock Director must be taken only at a special meeting of such stockholders, called in the same manner as provided
above for the initial election of Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one (1) vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote. Each
Preferred Stock Director shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders or until his or her earlier death, resignation or removal, if such office shall not have previously terminated as above provided.   
  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Section 9(b) shall have no force and effect (and, for all purposes, shall be
deemed not to be included in this Certificate of Designations) at any time when no shares of Series B Preferred Stock are listed on the New York Stock Exchange or any other U.S. national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed.
     (c)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of Series B Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other
vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote
thereon, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:   
  (i)  Amendment of Series B Preferred Stock . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate
of Incorporation so as to increase the number of authorized shares of Series B Preferred Stock or materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series B Preferred Stock, taken as a whole; or
     (ii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any consummation of a binding
share exchange or reclassification involving the Series B Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case either (A) such binding share exchange or
reclassification constitutes a Reorganization Event and the Corporation complies with Section 10(d) with respect to such Reorganization Event; or (B) the shares of Series B Preferred Stock remain outstanding and have such rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and
restrictions thereof, of the Series B Preferred Stock immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;       provided ,
 however , that for all purposes of this Section 9(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series B Preferred Stock or authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued
amount, of any other   
         10   

series of Preferred Stock or other stock of the Corporation ranking senior to, equally with and/or junior to the Series B Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such
dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges or voting
powers of the Series B Preferred Stock, taken as a whole, and each Holder, by its acceptance of any shares of Series B Preferred Stock, is, to the fullest extent permitted by law, deemed to consent, and authorize the Corporation, the Board of
Directors and any committee of the Board of Directors, to take any action to effect any such increase, creation or issuance.   
  In addition, so long as any shares of Series B Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders
required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at a majority of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock then outstanding, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at
any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting a publicly announced tender offer by the Corporation of shares of Common Stock;  provided ,  however , that such vote or consent shall not be required if the Corporation
grants Holders of Series B Preferred Stock of the right to participate, based on the number of shares of Common Stock into which such Series B Preferred Stock is convertible, in such tender offer on the same terms and conditions as holders of Common
Stock.      (d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the Holders of the Series B Preferred Stock, so long as
such action does not adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series B Preferred Stock, taken as a whole, the Corporation may, to the fullest extent permitted by
law, amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series B Preferred Stock:      (i) to cure any ambiguity,
or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designations that may be defective or inconsistent; or      (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the Series B Preferred Stock that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.
     (e)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders
of Series B Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to
such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the
requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the By-Laws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series B Preferred   
         11   

Stock is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock and any Voting Parity
Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the Holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or
covered by the consent.       Section 10.  Mandatory Conversion  .   
  (a)  Effectiveness of Conversion.  If the Corporation shall have obtained the Stockholder Approval, then, effective as of the open of
business on the Mandatory Conversion Date, each outstanding share of Series B Preferred Stock shall, automatically and without the act of any Holder, be converted into a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate in effect as of
the open of business on the Mandatory Conversion Date;  provided ,  however , that the Corporation will not issue fractional shares of Common Stock upon conversion of the Series B Preferred Stock and shall instead deliver a check in an
amount equal to the value of such fraction computed on the basis of the VWAP per share of Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately before the Mandatory Conversion Date. All shares of Common Stock issued or delivered upon conversion of the Series
B Preferred Stock shall be validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable and shall be free of preemptive or similar rights and (except, in the case of Series B Preferred Stock pledged pursuant to the Indemnification Security Agreement, as provided
in the Indemnification Security Agreement) free of any lien or adverse claim created by the Corporation. If more than one share of Series B Preferred Stock is surrendered for conversion at one time by the same Holder, then the number of full shares
of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of such shares shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number of shares of Series B Preferred Stock so surrendered.      (b)  Effect of Conversion . Subject to the second sentence of Section 5(d), on and after the Mandatory Conversion Date each outstanding share of Series B Preferred Stock shall cease to be
outstanding, dividends and distributions on such share shall cease to accrue or be due, and all rights of the Holder(s) of such share shall terminate with respect to such share, other than the right to receive, upon delivery of the certificate(s)
evidencing such share to the Corporation or its registrar, certificates evidencing the shares of Common Stock into which such share of Series B Preferred Stock has been converted, together with cash in lieu of any fractional share, as provided
herein.      (c)  Adjustment to the Conversion Rate . If, after the date of original issue of the Series B Preferred Stock,
the Corporation: (A) pays a dividend or makes another distribution on Common Stock to all holders of Common Stock payable, in whole or in part, in shares of Common Stock; (B) subdivides or splits the outstanding shares of Common Stock into
a greater number of shares; or (C) combines or reclassifies the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted by multiplying such Conversion Rate in effect immediately before such
adjustment by the number of shares of Common Stock which a person who owns only one (1) share of Common Stock immediately before the record   
         12   

date or effective date, as applicable, of such dividend, distribution, subdivision, split, or combination or reclassification and who is entitled to participate in such dividend, distribution,
subdivision, split, combination or reclassification would own immediately after giving effect to such dividend, distribution, subdivision, split, combination or reclassification (without giving effect to any arrangement pursuant to such dividend,
distribution, subdivision, split, combination or reclassification not to issue fractional shares of Common Stock). Such adjustment shall become effective immediately after the close of business on such record date, in the case of a stock dividend or
stock distribution, and shall become effective at the open of business on such effective date, in the case of a subdivision, split, combination or reclassification. For avoidance of doubt, if, after the date of original issue of the Series B
Preferred Stock, the Corporation pays a dividend or makes another distribution on Common Stock to all holders of Common Stock payable, in part (and not exclusively), in shares of Common Stock (such a dividend or distribution, a   Partial
Common Stock Distribution  ), then, without duplication, (i) an adjustment to the Conversion Rate shall be made pursuant to this Section 10(c) on account of the portion (and only such portion) of such Partial Common Stock
Distribution paid in shares of Common Stock; and (ii) the portion of such Partial Common Stock Distribution (and only such portion) not paid in shares of Common Stock shall be subject to Section 5(b). If, after the date of original issue
of the Series B Preferred Stock, the Corporation makes a Partial Common Stock Distribution, then the Distributed Property of such Partial Common Stock Distribution shall, for purposes hereof, be deemed not to include the portion of such Partial
Common Stock Distribution that is paid in shares of Common Stock.      (d)  Conversion Upon Reorganization Event . If, after
the date of original issue of the Series B Preferred Stock, (1) there occurs (A) any consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into another Person; (B) any sale, transfer, lease or conveyance to another Person of the property
of the Corporation as an entirety or substantially as an entirety; (C) any statutory exchange of securities of the Corporation with another Person or any binding share exchange which reclassifies or changes its outstanding Common Stock (other
than a change in par value, or from par value to no par value, or from no par value to par value, or as a result of a transaction that is subject to Section 10(c)); or (D) any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (any
such event in clauses (A) through (D), inclusive, a   Reorganization Event   and (2) pursuant to such Reorganization, the Common Stock is converted into or exchanged for, or constitutes solely the right to receive, cash,
securities or other property, then, immediately after the effective time of such Reorganization Event, the Corporation shall make provision for each outstanding share of Series B Preferred Stock to be converted, out of funds legally available
therefor, into the kind and amount of cash, securities or other property (collectively,   Reference Property  ) receivable pursuant to such Reorganization Event by a holder (the   Representative Holder  ) of a number of
shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate in effect at such effective time, which holder (A) is not a Person with which the Corporation consolidated or into which the Corporation merged or which merged into the Corporation or to which
such sale, transfer, lease or conveyance was made, as the case may be (any such Person, a   Constituent Person  ), or an Affiliate of a Constituent Person, to the extent such Reorganization Event provides for different treatment of
Common Stock held by Affiliates of the Corporation   
         13   

and non-Affiliates, and (B) failed to exercise his rights of election, if any, as to the kind or amount of such Reference Property ( provided  that if the kind or amount of such
Reference Property is not the same for each share of Common Stock held by a Person (other than a Constituent Person or an Affiliate thereof) who has not exercised such rights of election (  Non-Electing Share  ), then for the purpose
of this Section 10(d), the kind and amount of Reference Property in respect of each Non-Electing Share shall be deemed to be the weighted average of the kinds and amounts of Reference Property receivable per share of Common Stock pursuant to
such Reorganization Event in respect of all Non-Electing Shares). On and after the effective time of a Reorganization Event, each outstanding share of Series B Preferred Stock shall cease to be outstanding, dividends on such share shall cease to
accrue, and all rights of the Holder(s) of such share shall terminate with respect to such share, other than the right to receive the kind and amount of Reference Property into which such share of Series B Preferred Stock has been converted.
     (e)  Conversion at Corporation s Election . If, after the date of original issue of the Series B Preferred Stock,
the Corporation or its successor shall have consummated a tender offer or exchange offer for, or shall have repurchased, in each case whether in a single transaction or a series of transactions, more than fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding
shares of Series B Preferred Stock initially issued hereunder, then, subject to any applicable requirements of the exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed and subject to applicable law, the Corporation may elect to have the provisions of
Section 10(a) apply as if the Stockholder Approval shall have been obtained on a date of the Corporation s choosing, which date cannot be earlier than the consummation of such tender offer, exchange offer or repurchase.   
  (f)  Notice of Adjustments . Whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted pursuant to Section 10(c), the Corporation shall, within
ten (10) Business Days following the occurrence of the event that requires such adjustment, (i) compute the adjusted Conversion Rate in accordance with Section 10(c); and (ii) cause the Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation
(or a designee of such Chief Financial Officer) to prepare and mail to each Holder, at such Holder s last address shown on the records of the Corporation, a certificate setting forth such adjustment and showing in reasonable detail the facts
upon which such adjustment is based.      (g)  Reservation of Common Stock.  The Corporation shall, at all times when any
shares of Series B Preferred Stock are outstanding, reserve and keep available, free from preemptive rights, out of its authorized but unissued Common Stock, the full number of shares of Common Stock then issuable upon conversion of all then
outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Corporation may, at its election, deliver, upon conversion of the Series B Preferred Stock, treasury shares of Common Stock or other shares of
Common Stock that the Corporation has reacquired, provided such shares comply with the second sentence of Section 10(a).   
         14   

Section 11.  Record Holders  . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable
law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series B Preferred Stock may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series B Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such
transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.       Section 12.  Notices  . All notices or
communications in respect of Series B Preferred Stock shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of
Designations, in the Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws or by applicable law.       Section 13.  No Preemptive
Rights  . No share of Series B Preferred Stock shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such
securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.       Section 14.  Other
Rights  . The shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein
or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.       [   Remainder of Page Intentionally Left
Blank; Signature Page Follows   ]    
         15   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, METLIFE, INC. has caused this certificate to be signed by Steven J.
Goulart, its Senior Vice President and Treasurer, this 26th day of October, 2010.        

MetLife, Inc.   

By:  
     
  /s/ Steven J. Goulart   

Name: Steven J. Goulart  
  Title: Senior Vice President and Treasurer    

</EX-3.5>

<EX-3.6>
 7
 d302570dex36.htm
 CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT OF AMENDED AND RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION

Certificate of Amendment of Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation 

Exhibit 3.6       CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT      OF   
  AMENDED AND RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION      OF      METLIFE, INC.      METLIFE, INC., a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  Corporation ),   
  DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:      FIRST: That the Board of Directors of the Corporation, at a meeting duly held on February 23, 2011, adopted a resolution proposing and declaring advisable an amendment to the Amended and Restated
Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, subject to the approval of stockholders of the Corporation at the 2011 Annual Meeting, to replace Article VI, Sections 1 and 3 in their entirety with the revised text of such Sections as set forth
below:      SECTION 1. CLASSIFIED BOARD. Subject to the succeeding provisions of this Section 1 of Article VI, the Directors
of the Corporation, subject to the rights of the holders of shares of any class or series of Preferred Stock, shall be classified with respect to the time for which they severally hold office, into three classes, as nearly equal in number as
possible, which shall be designated Class I, Class II and Class III, as shall be provided in the By-Laws of the Corporation, each class to hold office until its successors are elected and qualified. At each annual meeting of stockholders of the
Corporation prior to the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, the date of which will be fixed pursuant to the By-Laws of the Corporation, and subject to the rights of the holders of shares of any class or series of Preferred Stock, the successors of
the class of directors whose term expires at that meeting shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders held in the third year following the year of their election. At each annual meeting of stockholders
commencing with the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, the dates of which will be fixed pursuant to the By-Laws of the Corporation, and subject to the rights of the holders of shares of any class or series of Preferred Stock, directors elected to
succeed those directors whose terms then expire shall be elected for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders. Commencing with the 2014 annual meeting of stockholders, the foregoing classification of the Board of Directors shall
cease.   

SECTION 3. MANAGEMENT OF BUSINESS. The following provisions are inserted for the management
of the business, for the conduct of the affairs of the Corporation and for the purpose of creating, defining, limiting and regulating the powers of the Corporation and its directors and stockholders:   
  (a) Subject to the rights of holders of any series of Preferred Stock, if any, to elect additional Directors under specified
circumstances, (i) prior to the 2014 annual meeting of stockholders, the holders of a majority of the combined voting power of the then outstanding stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors may remove any
Director, but only for cause; and (ii) from and after the 2014 annual meeting of stockholders, the holders of a majority of the combined voting power of the then outstanding stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of
Directors may remove any Director with or without cause.      (b) Vacancies in the Board of Directors resulting from death,
resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of Directors shall be filled in the manner provided in the By-Laws of the Corporation.
     (c) Advance notice of nominations for the election of Directors shall be given in the manner and to the extent provided in
the By-Laws of the Corporation.      (d) The election of Directors may be conducted in any manner approved by the officer
presiding at a meeting of stockholders or the Director presiding at a meeting of the Board of Directors, as the case may be, at the time when the election is held and need not be by written ballot.   
  (e) All corporate powers and authority of the Corporation (except as at the time otherwise provided by law, by this Certificate of
Incorporation or by the By-Laws) shall be vested in and exercised by the Board of Directors.   
         2   

(f) The Board of Directors shall have the power without the assent or vote of the
stockholders to adopt, amend, alter or repeal the By-Laws of the Corporation, except to the extent that the By-Laws or this Certificate of Incorporation otherwise provide. In addition to any requirements of law and any other provision of this
Certificate of Incorporation, the stockholders of the Corporation may adopt, amend, alter or repeal any provision of the By-Laws upon the affirmative vote of the holders of three-quarters (3/4) or more of the combined voting power of the then
outstanding stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors.      SECOND: That, the stockholders
of the Corporation were given notice of the proposed amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation in accordance with the requirements of Section 222 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the Amended and
Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation and the By-Laws of the Corporation, and duly adopted the amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation in accordance with the requirements of the General Corporation Law
of the State of Delaware, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation and the By-Laws of the Corporation.      THIRD: That such amendment was duly adopted in accordance with the applicable provisions of Sections 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.   
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, MetLife, Inc. has caused this certificate to be signed by Christine M. DeBiase, its Vice President and Secretary, this 29th day of
April, 2011.        

METLIFE, INC.   

By:  
     
    /s/ Christine M. DeBiase    

Christine M. DeBiase     Vice
President and Secretary    

3   

</EX-3.6>

<EX-4.1(A)>
 8
 d302570dex41a.htm
 INDENTURE, DATED AS OF NOVEMBER 9, 2001

Indenture, dated as of November 9, 2001 

Exhibit 4.1(a)       METLIFE, INC.,      ISSUER   
  AND      BANK ONE
TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,      TRUSTEE        
       INDENTURE
     DATED AS OF NOVEMBER 9, 2001        
       SENIOR DEBT
SECURITIES   

CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE(1)   

(1)  
    This Cross-Reference Table does not constitute part of the Indenture and shall not have any bearing on the interpretation of any of its terms or
provisions.      

TABLE OF CONTENTS (1)   

PAGE    

ARTICLE I     DEFINITIONS   

SECTION 1.01   
     
  Definitions of Terms  

1  

Affiliate  

1  

Authenticating Agent  

1  

Bankruptcy Law  

1  

Board of Directors  

1  

Board Resolution  

1  

Business Day  

1  

Certificate  

2  

Company  

2  

Commission  

2  

Common Securities  

2  

Common Securities Guarantee  

2  

Corporate Trust Office  

2  

Custodian  

2  

Declaration  

2  

Default  

2  

Deferral Period  

2  

Depositary  

2  

Event of Default  

2  

Global Security  

2  

Governmental Obligations  

2  

herein, hereof and hereunder  

3  

Indebtedness  

3  

Indenture  

3  

Interest Payment Date  

3  

Investment Company Act  

3  

MetLife Trust  

3  

MLIC  

3  

Officers  Certificate  

3  

Opinion of Counsel  

3  

Original Issue Discount Security  

3  

Outstanding  

4  

Paying Agent  

4  

Person  

4  

Place of Payment  

4  

Predecessor Security  

4  

Preferred Securities  

4  

Preferred Securities Guarantee  

4  

Property Trustee  

4  

Redemption Date  

5  

Redemption Price  

5  

Responsible Officer  

5  

Securities  

5  

Securities Act  

5  
        
         i   

ARTICLE I     DEFINITIONS   

Securityholder, holder of Securities and registered holder  

5  

Stated Maturity  

5  

Subsidiary  

5  

Trustee  

5  

Trust Indenture Act  

5  

Trust Securities  

5  

Voting Stock  

5  

Yield to Maturity  

5  

ii   

ARTICLE V  

SECURITYHOLDERS  LISTS AND REPORTS  

BY THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE  

SECTION 5.01   
     
  Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Securityholders  

18  

SECTION 5.02   
     
  Preservation Of Information; Communications With Securityholders  

18  

SECTION5.03   
     
  Reports by the Company  

19  

SECTION 5.04   
     
  Reports by the Trustee  

19  

ARTICLE VI  

REMEDIES OF THE TRUSTEE AND SECURITYHOLDERS  

ON EVENT OF DEFAULT  

SECTION 6.01   
     
  Events of Default  

19  

SECTION 6.02   
     
  Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee  

21  

SECTION 6.03   
     
  Application of Moneys Collected  

22  

SECTION 6.04   
     
  Limitation on Suits  

23  

SECTION 6.05   
     
  Rights and Remedies Cumulative; Delay or Omission Not Waiver  

23  

SECTION 6.06   
     
  Control by Securityholders  

23  

SECTION 6.07   
     
  Undertaking to Pay Costs  

24  

SECTION 6.08   
     
  Waiver of Past Defaults  

24  

ARTICLE VII  

CONCERNING THE TRUSTEE  

SECTION 7.01   
     
  Certain Duties and Responsibilities of Trustee  

24  

SECTION 7.02   
     
  Certain Rights of Trustee  

25  

SECTION 7.03   
     
  Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance or Securities  

26  

SECTION 7.04   
     
  May Hold Securities  

26  

SECTION 7.05   
     
  Moneys Held in Trust  

26  

SECTION 7.06   
     
  Compensation and Reimbursement  

26  

SECTION 7.07   
     
  Reliance on Officers  Certificate  

27  

SECTION 7.08   
     
  Disqualification; Conflicting Interests  

27  

SECTION 7.09   
     
  Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility  

27  

SECTION 7.10   
     
  Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor  

27  

SECTION 7.11   
     
  Acceptance of Appointment By Successor  

28  

SECTION 7.12   
     
  Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business  

29  

SECTION 7.13   
     
  Preferential Collection of Claims Against the Company  

29  

ARTICLE VIII  

CONCERNING THE SECURITYHOLDERS  

SECTION 8.01   
     
  Evidence of Action by Securityholders  

29  

SECTION 8.02   
     
  Proof of Execution by Securityholders  

30  

SECTION 8.03   
     
  Who May be Deemed Owners  

30  

SECTION 8.04   
     
  Certain Securities Owned by Company Disregarded  

30  

SECTION 8.05   
     
  Actions Binding on Future Securityholders  

31  

iii

ARTICLE IX  

SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES  

SECTION 9.01   
     
  Supplemental Indentures Without the Consent of Securityholders  
      
  31   
 
    SECTION 9.02   
     
  Supplemental Indentures With Consent of Securityholders  
      
  32   
 
    SECTION 9.03   
     
  Effect of Supplemental Indentures  
      
  33   
 
    SECTION 9.04   
     
  Securities Affected by Supplemental Indentures  
      
  33   
 
    SECTION 9.05   
     
  Execution of Supplemental Indentures  
      
  33   

ARTICLE X  

CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, CONVEYANCE,  

TRANSFER OR LEASE  

SECTION 10.1   
     
  When the Company May Consolidate, Merge, Etc.  

33  

ARTICLE XII  

IMMUNITY OF INCORPORATORS, STOCKHOLDERS, OFFICERS  

AND DIRECTORS  

SECTION 12.01   
     
  No Recourse  

35  

iv   

(1)  
    This Table of Contents does not constitute part of the Indenture and shall not have any bearing upon the interpretation of any of its terms or
provisions.            
         v   

INDENTURE, dated as of November 9, 2001, between MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation
(the  Company ), and Bank One Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the  Trustee ):      WHEREAS, for its lawful corporate purposes, the Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance of unsecured debt securities, debentures, notes, bonds,
or other evidences of indebtedness (hereinafter referred to as the  Securities ), in an unlimited aggregate principal amount to be issued from time to time in one or more series, as provided in this Indenture, including, without
limitation, Securities to be issued and sold from time to time to one or more MetLife Trusts (as defined herein);      WHEREAS, to
provide the terms and conditions upon which the Securities are to be authenticated, issued and delivered, the Company has duly authorized the execution of this Indenture; and      WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.   
  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the holders thereof, it is mutually covenanted and
agreed as follows for the equal and ratable benefit of the holders of Securities:      ARTICLE I   
  DEFINITIONS   
  SECTION 1.01 Definitions of Terms.      The terms defined in this Section (except as in this Indenture otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires) for all purposes of this Indenture and of any indenture supplemental
hereto shall have the respective meanings specified in this Section and shall include the plural as well as the singular. All other terms used in this Indenture that are defined in the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, or that are by
reference in such Act defined in the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (except as herein otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires), shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in said Trust Indenture Act and in said
Securities Act as in force at the date of the execution of this instrument.       Affiliate  of any specified Person
means any other Person, directly or indirectly, controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. When used with respect to any Person,  control  means the power, directly or indirectly, to
direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms  controlling  and  controlled  and  under common
control with  have meanings correlative to the foregoing.       Authenticating Agent  means an authenticating agent
with respect to all or any of the series of Securities appointed with respect to all or any series of the Securities by the Trustee pursuant to Section 2.10.       Bankruptcy Law  means Title 11, U.S. Code, or any similar federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other law for the relief of debtors.   
   Board of Directors  means the Board of Directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee of such Board.   
   Board Resolution  means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have
been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification.   
   Business Day  means, with respect to any series of Securities, any day other than a day on which federal or state banking
institutions in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, are authorized or obligated by law, executive order or regulation to close.   
         1   

Certificate  means a certificate signed by the principal executive officer, the
principal financial officer or the principal accounting officer of the Company. The Certificate need not comply with the provisions of Section 14.07.       Company  means MetLife, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, and, subject to the provisions of Article Ten, shall also include its successors
and assigns.       Commission  means the Securities and Exchange Commission, from time to time constituted, created
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), or, if at any time after the execution of this instrument such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture
Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.       Common Securities  means undivided beneficial interests in
the assets of a MetLife Trust which rank pari passu with Preferred Securities issued by such MetLife Trust; provided, however, that upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, the rights of holders of Common Securities to payment in respect of
distributions and payments upon liquidation, redemption and otherwise are subordinated to the rights of holders of Preferred Securities.       Common Securities Guarantee  means any guarantee agreement executed by the Company with respect to the Common Securities issued by a MetLife Trust pursuant to which the Company agrees to pay
the guarantee payments under any such guarantee agreement to the holders of such Common Securities.       Corporate Trust
Office  means the office of the Trustee at which, at any particular time, its corporate trust business shall be principally administered, which office at the date hereof is located at Bank One Trust Company, N.A., 1 Bank One Plaza, Chicago,
Illinois 60670.       Custodian  means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, sequestrator, custodian or similar
official under any Bankruptcy Law.       Declaration,  with respect to a MetLife Trust, means the Amended and Restated
Declaration of Trust of such MetLife Trust.       Default  means any event, act or condition that with notice or lapse
of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default.       Deferral Period,  with respect to any series of
Securities, means any period during which the Company elects to extend the interest payment period on such series of Securities pursuant to Section 4.01(b); provided that a Deferral Period (or any extension thereof) may not extend beyond the
Stated Maturity or the Redemption Date of any Security of such series and must end on an Interest Payment Date or, if the Securities are redeemed, on an Interest Payment Date or the Redemption Date for such Securities.   
   Depositary  means, with respect to Securities of any series, for which the Company shall determine that such Securities will
be issued as a Global Security, The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York, another clearing agency, or any successor registered as a clearing agency under the Exchange Act, or other applicable statute or regulation, which, in each case, shall
be designated by the Company pursuant to either Section 2.01 or Section 2.11.       Event of Default  means,
with respect to Securities of a particular series any event specified in Section 6.01, continued for the period of time, if any, therein designated.       Global Security  means, with respect to any series of Securities, a Security executed by the Company and delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary s
instruction, all in accordance with the Indenture, which shall be registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee.   
   Governmental Obligations  means securities that are (i) direct obligations of the United States of America for the
payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America, the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as
a full faith and credit obligation by the United States of America that, in either case, are not callable or redeemable at the option of the         
         2   

issuer thereof, and shall also include a depositary receipt issued by a bank (as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended) as custodian with respect to any such
Governmental Obligation or a specific payment of principal of or interest on any such Governmental Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of such depositary receipt; provided, however, that (except as required by law) such
custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depositary receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the Governmental Obligation or the specific payment of principal of or
interest on the Governmental Obligation evidenced by such depositary receipt.       herein,   hereof  and
 hereunder,  and other words of similar import, refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.       Indebtedness  of any person means the principal of and premium, if any, and interest due on indebtedness of such Person, whether outstanding on the date of this Indenture or thereafter created,
incurred or assumed, which is (a) indebtedness for money borrowed, and (b) any amendments, renewals, extensions, modifications and refundings of any such indebtedness. For the purposes of this definition,  indebtedness for money
borrowed  means (i) any obligation of, or any obligation guaranteed by, such Person for the repayment of borrowed money, whether or not evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other written instruments, (ii) any obligation of, or any
such obligation guaranteed by, such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar written instruments, including obligations assumed or incurred in connection with the acquisition of property, assets or businesses (provided, however, that
the deferred purchase price of any other business or property or assets shall not be considered Indebtedness if the purchase price thereof is payable in full within 90 days from the date on which such indebtedness was created), and (iii) any
obligations of such Person as lessee under leases required to be capitalized on the balance sheet of the lessee under generally accepted accounting principles and leases of property or assets made as part of any sale and lease-back transaction to
which such Person is a party.       Indenture  means this instrument as originally executed and as it may from time to
time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, including, for all purposes of this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, the provisions of the Trust
Indenture Act that are deemed to be a part of and govern this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, respectively. The term  Indenture  shall also include the terms of particular series of Securities established as contemplated by
Section 2.01.       Interest Payment Date,  when used with respect to any Security, means the Stated Maturity of an
installment of interest on a Security of a particular series.       Investment Company Act  means the Investment Company
Act of 1940 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.       MetLife Trust  means
each of MetLife Capital Trust II and MetLife Capital Trust III (together, the  Trusts ), each a statutory business trust formed under the laws of the State of Delaware, or any other similar trust created for the purpose of issuing
preferred securities in connection with the issuance of Securities under this Indenture.       MLIC  means Metropolitan
Life Insurance Company, an insurance company duly organized and existing under the insurance laws of the State of New York or any Person successor thereto.       Officers  Certificate  means a certificate signed by the Chief Financial Officer, President or a Vice President and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or the Controller or an
Assistant Controller or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company that is delivered to the Trustee in accordance with the terms hereof. Each such certificate shall include the statements provided for in Section 14.07, if and to the
extent required by the provisions thereof.       Opinion of Counsel  means an opinion in writing of legal counsel, who
may be an employee of or counsel for the Company that is delivered to the Trustee in accordance with the terms hereof. Each such opinion shall include the statements provided for in Section 14.07, if and to the extent required by the provisions
thereof.       Original Issue Discount Security  means any Security which provides for an amount less than the principal
amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.01(b).   
         3   

Outstanding,  when used with reference to Securities of any series, means,
subject to the provisions of Section 8.04, as of any particular time, all Securities of that series theretofore authenticated and delivered by the Trustee under this Indenture, except (a) Securities theretofore canceled by the Trustee or
any Paying Agent, or delivered to the Trustee or any Paying Agent for cancellation or that have previously been canceled; (b) Securities or portions thereof for the payment or redemption of which moneys or Governmental Obligations in the
necessary amount shall have been deposited in trust with the Trustee or with any Paying Agent (other than the Company) or shall have been set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent); provided,
however, that if such Securities or portions of such Securities are to be redeemed prior to the maturity thereof, notice of such redemption shall have been given as in Article Three provided, or provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have been
made for giving such notice; (c) Securities in lieu of or in substitution for which other Securities shall have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to the terms of Section 2.07; and (d) Securities as to which Defeasance (as
defined in Section 13.02) has been effected pursuant to Section 13.02, provided, however, that in determining whether the holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given, made or taken any request,
demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action hereunder as of any date, (A) the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security which shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the amount of the principal
thereof which would be due and payable as of such date upon acceleration of the maturity thereof to such date pursuant to Section 6.01(b), (B) if, as of such date, the principal amount payable at the Stated Maturity of a Security is not
determinable, the principal amount of such Security which shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the amount as specified or determined as contemplated by Section 2.01, (C) the principal amount of a Security denominated in one or more
foreign currencies or currency units which shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the U.S. dollar equivalent, determined as of such date in the manner provided as contemplated by Section 2.01, of the principal amount of such Security (or,
in the case of a Security described in Clause (A) or (B) above, of the amount determined as provided in such Clause), and (D) Securities beneficially owned by the Company or any other obligor upon such Securities or any Affiliate of
the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent,
waiver or other action, only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to
the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee s right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor.   
   Paying Agent  means any Person authorized by the Company to pay the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities
on behalf of the Company.       Person  means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint- venture, joint- stock
company, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.       Place of
Payment,  when used with respect to the Securities of any series, means the place or places where the principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities of that series are payable as specified as contemplated by Section 2.01.
      Predecessor Security  of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the
same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 2.07 in lieu of a lost, destroyed or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same
debt as the lost, destroyed or stolen Security.       Preferred Securities  means undivided beneficial interests in the
assets of a MetLife Trust which rank pari passu with Common Securities issued by such MetLife Trust; provided, however, that upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, the rights of holders of Common Securities to payment in respect of
distributions and payments upon liquidation, redemption and otherwise are subordinated to the rights of holders of Preferred Securities.       Preferred Securities Guarantee  means any guarantee agreement executed by the Company with respect to the Preferred Securities issued by a MetLife Trust pursuant to which the Company agrees to
pay the guarantee payments under any such guarantee agreement to the holders of such Preferred Securities.       Property
Trustee  has the meaning set forth in the Declaration of the applicable MetLife Trust.   
         4   

Redemption Date,  when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means
the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.       Redemption Price,  when used with respect to
any Security to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.       Responsible
Officer,  when used with respect to the Trustee, means the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President, any Vice-President, the Secretary, the Treasurer, any trust officer, any corporate trust officer or any other officer or assistant
officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by the Persons who at the time shall be such officers, respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of his or her knowledge of and
familiarity with the particular subject.       Securities  has the meaning stated in the preamble of this Indenture and
more particularly means any Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture.       Securities Act  means the
Securities Act of 1933 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.   
   Securityholder,   holder of Securities,   registered holder,  or other similar term, means the Person or
Persons in whose name or names a particular Security shall be registered on the books of the Company kept for that purpose in accordance with the terms of this Indenture.       Stated Maturity,  when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the
principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is due and payable.       Subsidiary  means,
with respect to any Person, (i) any corporation at least a majority of whose outstanding Voting Stock shall at the time be owned, directly or indirectly, by such Person or by one or more of its Subsidiaries or by such Person and one or more of
its Subsidiaries, (ii) any general partnership, joint venture or similar entity, at least a majority of whose outstanding partnership or similar interests shall at the time be owned by such Person, or by one or more of its Subsidiaries, or by
such Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries and (iii) any limited partnership of which such Person or any of its Subsidiaries is a general partner.       Trustee  means Bank One Trust Company, N.A. and, subject to the provisions of Article Seven, shall also include its successors and assigns and, if at any time there is more than one Person
acting in such capacity hereunder,  Trustee  shall mean each such Person. The term  Trustee  as used with respect to a particular series of the Securities shall mean the trustee with respect to that series.   
   Trust Indenture Act  means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, subject to the provisions of Sections 9.01, 9.02, and
10.01, as in effect at the date of execution of this instrument.       Trust Securities  means, collectively, Common
Securities and Preferred Securities of a MetLife Trust.       Voting Stock,  as applied to stock of any Person, means
shares, interests, participations or other equivalents in the equity interest (however designated) in such Person having ordinary voting power for the election of a majority of the directors (or the equivalent) of such Person, other than shares,
interests, participations or other equivalents having such power only by reason of the occurrence of a contingency.   
   Yield to Maturity  means the yield to maturity on a series of securities calculated at the time of issuance of such series or,
if applicable, of the most recent redetermination of interest on such series, and calculated in accordance with accepted financial practice.   
         5   

ARTICLE II      DESCRIPTION, TERMS, EXECUTION,      REGISTRATION AND EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES   
  SECTION 2.01 Designation and Terms of Securities.      (a) The aggregate principal amount of Securities that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited. The Securities may be issued in one or more series up to the aggregate principal
amount of Securities of that series from time to time authorized by or pursuant to a Board Resolution of the Company or pursuant to one or more indentures supplemental hereto. Prior to the initial issuance of Securities of any series, there shall be
established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution of the Company, and set forth in an Officers  Certificate of the Company, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto:   
  (1) the title of the Security of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from all other
Securities);      (2) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of that series that may be
authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of that series);   
  (3) the price or prices at which the Company will sell the Securities;   
  (4) the Stated Maturity of the Securities;   
  (5) the rate or rates at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest or the manner of calculation of such rate
or rates, if any;      (6) the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue, the Interest Payment Dates on
which such interest will be payable or the manner of determination of such Interest Payment Dates and the record date for the determination of holders to whom interest is payable on any such Interest Payment Dates;   
  (7) the right, if any, to extend the interest payment periods and the duration of any such Deferral Period, including the
maximum consecutive period during which interest payment periods may be extended;      (8) if the amount of
principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities of the series may be determined with reference to any index, formula, or other method, such as one or more currencies, commodities, equity indices or other indices, and the manner in which
such amounts shall be determined;      (9) the place or places where the principal of and any premium and interest
on any Securities of the series shall be payable;      (10) the period or periods within which, the price or prices
at which and the terms and conditions upon which, Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company;      (11) the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem, repay or purchase Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions (including payments made in cash in participation of
future sinking fund obligations) or at the option of a holder thereof and the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which, and the terms and conditions upon which, Securities of the series shall be redeemed, repaid or purchased, in
whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;      (12) if other than denominations of one thousand U.S. dollars
($1,000) or any integral multiple thereof, the denominations in which the Securities of the series shall be issuable;      (13) if other than the full principal amount thereof, the portion or, methods of determining the portion, of the principal amount of Securities of the series which shall be payable upon declaration of
acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.01;         
         6   

(14) if other than the currency of the United States of America, the
currency, currencies or currency units in which the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities of the series shall be payable and the manner of determining the equivalent thereof in the currency of the United States of America for any
purpose, including for purposes of the definition of  Outstanding  in Section 1.01;      (15)
provisions granting special rights to holders of the Securities upon the occurrence of specific events;      (16)
any deletions from, modifications of or additions to the Events of Default or the Company s covenants provided for with respect to the Securities of the series;   
  (17) if applicable, that the Securities of the series, in whole or any specified part, shall be defeasible pursuant to
Section 13.02 or Section 13.03 or both such Sections and, if other than by a Board Resolution, the manner in which any election by the Company to defease such Securities shall be evidenced;   
  (18) whether the Securities will be convertible into shares of common stock or other securities or property of the Company
and, if so, the terms and conditions upon which such Securities will be so convertible, including the conversion price and the conversion period;      (19) whether the Securities are issuable as a Global Security and, in such case, the identity for the Depositary for such series and the terms and conditions upon which Global Securities may be exchanged
for certificated debt securities;      (20) any special tax implications of the Securities of the series, including
any provisions for Original Issue Discount Securities, if offered;      (21) any change in the right of the Trustee
or the requisite holders of such Securities to declare the principal amount thereof due and payable pursuant to Section 6.01;      (22) any trustees, authenticating or Paying Agents, transfer agents or registrars or other agents with respect to the Securities; and   
  (23) any other terms of the series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, except as
permitted by Section 9.01(11)), but which may modify or delete any provision of this Indenture with respect to such series, provided that no such term may modify or delete any provision hereof if imposed by the Trust Indenture Act, and
provided, further that any modification or deletion of the rights, duties or immunities of the Trustee hereunder shall have been consented to in writing by the Trustee).      All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to any such Board Resolution or in any indentures
supplemental hereto.      If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution of the
Company, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officers  Certificate of the Company setting
forth the terms of the series.      Securities of any particular series may be issued at various times, with different dates on
which the principal or any installment of principal is payable, with different rates of interest, if any, or different methods by which rates of interest may be determined, with different dates on which such interest may be payable and with
different redemption dates.   
         7   

SECTION 2.02 Form of Securities and Trustee s Certificate.   
  The Securities of any series and the Trustee s certificate of authentication to be borne by such Securities shall be substantially of
the tenor and purport as set forth in one or more indentures supplemental hereto or as provided in a Board Resolution of the Company and as set forth in an Officers  Certificate of the Company and may have such letters, numbers or other marks
of identification or designation and such legends or endorsements printed, lithographed or engraved thereon as the Company may deem appropriate and as are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, or as may be required to comply with
any law or with any rule or regulation made pursuant thereto or with any rule or regulation of any stock exchange on which Securities of that series may be listed, or to conform to usage.   
  SECTION 2.03 Denominations; Provisions for Payment.      The Securities shall be issuable as registered Securities and in the denominations of one thousand U.S. dollars ($1,000) or any integral multiple thereof, subject to Section 2.01(11). The Securities
of a particular series shall bear interest payable on the dates and at the rate specified with respect to that series. Unless otherwise provided pursuant to Section 2.01, the principal of and the interest on the Securities of any series, as
well as any premium thereon in case of redemption thereof prior to maturity, shall be payable in the coin or currency of the United States of America that at the time is legal tender for public and private debt, at the office or agency of the
Company maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, the City and State of New York. Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication. Interest on the Securities shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year composed of
twelve 30-day months.      The interest installment on any Security that is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for,
on any Interest Payment Date for Securities of that series shall be paid to the Person in whose name said Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the regular record date for such interest
installment. In the event that any Security of a particular series or portion thereof is called for redemption and the redemption date is subsequent to a regular record date with respect to any Interest Payment Date and prior to such Interest
Payment Date, interest on such Security will be paid upon presentation and surrender of such Security as provided in Section 3.03.      Except as otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.01, any interest on any Security that is payable, but is not punctually paid or
duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date for Securities of the same series (herein called  Defaulted Interest ) shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered holder on the relevant regular record date by virtue of having
been such holder; and such Defaulted Interest shall be paid by the Company, at its election, as provided in clause (1) or clause (2) below:      (1) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business
on a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner: the Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each such Security and the
date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the
Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a
special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall not be more than 15 nor less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed
payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such special record date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the special record date therefor to be
mailed, first class postage prepaid, to each Securityholder at his or her address as it appears in the Security Register (as hereinafter defined), not less than 10 days prior to such special record date. Notice of the proposed payment of such
Defaulted Interest and the special record date therefor having been mailed as aforesaid, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names such Securities (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered on such special
record date and shall be no longer payable pursuant to the following clause (2).   
         8   

(2) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on any Securities
in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of
the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.      Unless
otherwise set forth in a Board Resolution of the Company or one or more indentures supplemental hereto establishing the terms of any series of Securities pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof, the term  regular record date  as used in this
Section with respect to a series of Securities with respect to any Interest Payment Date for such series shall mean either the fifteenth day of the month immediately preceding the month in which an Interest Payment Date established for such series
pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof shall occur, if such Interest Payment Date is the first day of a month, or the last day of the month immediately preceding the month in which an Interest Payment Date established for such series pursuant to
Section 2.01 hereof shall occur, if such Interest Payment Date is the fifteenth day of a month, whether or not such date is a Business Day.      Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security of a series delivered under this Indenture upon transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security of such series shall
carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, that were carried by such other Security.      SECTION 2.04
Execution and Authentications.      The Securities shall be signed on behalf of the Company by its President, or one of its Vice
Presidents, or its Treasurer, or one of its Assistant Treasurers, or its Secretary, or one of its Assistant Secretaries, under its corporate seal attested by its Secretary or one of its Assistant Secretaries. Signatures may be in the form of a
manual or facsimile signature. The Company may use the facsimile signature of any Person who shall have been a President or Vice President thereof, or of any Person who shall have been a Secretary or Assistant Secretary thereof, notwithstanding the
fact that at the time the Securities shall be authenticated and delivered or disposed of such Person shall have ceased to be the President or a Vice President, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Company. The seal of the Company may
be in the form of a facsimile of such seal and may be impressed, affixed, imprinted or otherwise reproduced on the Securities. The Securities may contain such notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage. Each
Security shall be dated the date of its authentication by the Trustee.      A Security shall not be valid until authenticated
manually by an authorized signatory of the Trustee, or by an Authenticating Agent. Such signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Security so authenticated has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder and that the holder is entitled to
the benefits of this Indenture.      At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the
Company may deliver Securities of any series executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a written order of the Company for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, signed by its President or any Vice
President and its Secretary or any Assistant Secretary, and the Trustee in accordance with such written order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities.      In authenticating such Securities and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to
Section 7.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the form and terms thereof have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture.   
  The Trustee shall not be required to authenticate such Securities if the issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture will affect
the Trustee s own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner that is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.      SECTION 2.05 Registration of Transfer and Exchange.      (a) Securities of any series
may be exchanged upon presentation thereof at the office or agency of the Company designated for such purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, the City and State of New York, for other Securities of such series of authorized denominations, and for a
like aggregate principal amount, upon payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge in relation thereto, all as provided in this Section. In respect of any Securities so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall
execute, the Trustee shall authenticate and such office or agency shall deliver in exchange therefor the Security or Securities of the same series that the Securityholder making the exchange shall be entitled to receive, bearing numbers not
contemporaneously outstanding.   
         9   

(b) The Company shall keep, or cause to be kept, at its office or agency designated for such
purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, the City and State of New York, or such other location designated by the Company a register or registers (herein referred to as the  Security Register ) in which, subject to such reasonable regulations
as it may prescribe, the Company shall register the Securities and the transfers of Securities as in this Article provided and which at all reasonable times shall be open for inspection by the Trustee. The registrar for the purpose of registering
Securities and transfer of Securities as herein provided shall be appointed as authorized by Board Resolution (the  Security Registrar ).      Upon surrender for transfer of any Security at the office or agency of the Company designated for such purpose, the Company shall execute, the Trustee shall authenticate and such office or agency shall
deliver in the name of the transferee or transferees a new Security or Securities of the same series as the Security presented for a like aggregate principal amount.      All Securities presented or surrendered for exchange or registration of transfer, as provided in this Section, shall be accompanied (if so required by the Company or the Security Registrar) by a written
instrument or instruments of transfer, in form satisfactory to the Company or the Security Registrar, duly executed by the registered holder or by such holder s duly authorized attorney in writing.   
  (c) No service charge shall be made for any exchange or registration of transfer of Securities, or issue of new Securities in case of
partial redemption of any series, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge in relation thereto, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 2.06, the second paragraph of
Section 3.03 and Section 9.04 not involving any transfer.      (d) The Company shall not be required (i) to issue,
exchange or register the transfer of any Securities during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the mailing of a notice of redemption of less than all the Outstanding Securities of the same series and ending at the
close of business on the day of such mailing, nor (ii) to register the transfer of or exchange any Securities of any series or portions thereof called for redemption. The provisions of this Section 2.05 are, with respect to any Global
Security, subject to Section 2.11 hereof.      SECTION 2.06 Temporary Securities.   
  Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver,
temporary Securities (printed, lithographed or typewritten) of any authorized denomination. Such temporary Securities shall be substantially in the form of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued, but with such omissions,
insertions and variations as may be appropriate for temporary Securities, all as may be determined by the Company. Every temporary Security of any series shall be executed by the Company and be authenticated by the Trustee upon the same conditions
and in substantially the same manner, and with like effect, as the definitive Securities of such series. Without unnecessary delay the Company will execute and will furnish definitive Securities of such series and thereupon any or all temporary
Securities of such series may be surrendered in exchange therefor (without charge to the holders), at the office or agency of the Company designated for the purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, the City and State of New York, and the Trustee shall
authenticate and such office or agency shall deliver in exchange for such temporary Securities an equal aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities of such series, unless the Company advises the Trustee to the effect that definitive
Securities need not be executed and furnished until further notice from the Company. Until so exchanged, the temporary Securities of such series shall be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series
authenticated and delivered hereunder.      SECTION 2.07 Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Securities.   
  In case any temporary or definitive Security shall become mutilated or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Company (subject to the next
succeeding sentence) shall execute, and upon the Company s request the Trustee (subject as aforesaid) shall authenticate and deliver, a new Security of the same series, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding, in exchange and
substitution for the mutilated Security, or in lieu of and in substitution for the Security so destroyed, lost or stolen. In every case the applicant for a substituted Security shall furnish to the Company and the Trustee such
  
         10   

security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, and, in every case of destruction, loss or theft, the applicant shall also furnish to the Company and the Trustee
evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of the applicant s Security and of the ownership thereof. The Trustee may authenticate any such substituted Security and deliver the same upon the written request or authorization
of any officer of the Company. Upon the issuance of any substituted Security, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses
(including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith. In case any Security that has matured or is about to mature shall become mutilated or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Company may, instead of issuing a substitute Security, pay
or authorize the payment of the same (without surrender thereof except in the case of a mutilated Security) if the applicant for such payment shall furnish to the Company and the Trustee such security or indemnity as they may require to save them
harmless, and, in case of destruction, loss or theft, evidence to the satisfaction of the Company and the Trustee of the destruction, loss or theft of such Security and of the ownership thereof.   
  Every replacement Security issued pursuant to the provisions of this Section shall constitute an additional contractual obligation of the
Company whether or not the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be found at any time, or be enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other
Securities of the same series duly issued hereunder. All Securities shall be held and owned upon the express condition that the foregoing provisions are exclusive with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen
Securities, and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) any and all other rights or remedies, notwithstanding any law or statute existing or hereafter enacted to the contrary with respect to the replacement or payment of negotiable instruments or
other securities without their surrender.      SECTION 2.08 Cancellation.   
  All Securities surrendered for the purpose of payment, redemption, exchange or registration of transfer shall, if surrendered to the
Company or any Paying Agent, be delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, or, if surrendered to the Trustee, shall be canceled by it, and no Securities shall be issued in lieu thereof except as expressly required or permitted by any of the
provisions of this Indenture. On request of the Company at the time of such surrender, the Trustee shall deliver to the Company canceled Securities held by the Trustee. In the absence of such request the Trustee may dispose of canceled Securities in
accordance with its standard procedures and deliver a certificate of disposition to the Company. If the Company shall otherwise acquire any of the Securities, however, such acquisition shall not operate as a redemption or satisfaction of the
indebtedness represented by such Securities unless and until the same are delivered to the Trustee for cancellation.      SECTION
2.09 Benefits of Indenture.      Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give or be construed to
give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and the holders of the Securities any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Indenture, or under any covenant, condition or provision herein contained; all such
covenants, conditions and provisions being for the sole benefit of the parties hereto and of the holders of the Securities.   
  SECTION 2.10 Authenticating Agent.      So long as any of the Securities of any series remain Outstanding there may be an Authenticating Agent for any or all such series of Securities which the Trustee shall have the right to appoint. Said
Authenticating Agent shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series issued upon exchange, transfer or partial redemption thereof, and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of
this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. All references in this Indenture to the authentication of Securities by the Trustee shall be deemed to include authentication by an
Authenticating Agent for such series. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Company and shall be a corporation that has a combined capital and surplus, as most recently reported or determined by it, sufficient under the laws of any
jurisdiction under which it is organized or in which it is doing business to conduct a trust business, and that is otherwise authorized under such laws to conduct such business and is subject to supervision or examination by federal or state
authorities. If at any time any Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with these provisions, it shall resign immediately.   
         11   

Any Authenticating Agent may at any time resign by giving written notice of resignation to
the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee may at any time (and upon request by the Company shall) terminate the agency of any Authenticating Agent by giving written notice of termination to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon
resignation, termination or cessation of eligibility of any Authenticating Agent, the Trustee may appoint an eligible successor Authenticating Agent acceptable to the Company. Any successor Authenticating Agent, upon acceptance of its appointment
hereunder, shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent pursuant hereto.      SECTION 2.11 Global Securities.      (a) If the Company shall establish pursuant to
Section 2.01 that the Securities of a particular series are to be issued as a Global Security, then the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with Section 2.04, authenticate and deliver, a Global Security that
(i) shall represent, and shall be denominated in an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of, all of the Outstanding Securities of such series, (ii) shall be registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee,
(iii) shall be delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary s instruction and (iv) shall bear a legend substantially to the following effect:  Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.11 of the
Indenture, this Security may be transferred, in whole but not in part, only to another nominee of the Depositary or to a successor Depositary or to a nominee of such successor Depositary.    
  (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.05, the Global Security of a series may be transferred, in whole but not in part and
in the manner provided in Section 2.05, only to another nominee of the Depositary for such series, or to a successor Depositary for such series selected or approved by the Company or to a nominee of such successor Depositary.   
  (c) If at any time the Depositary for a series of the Securities notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as
Depositary for such series or if at any time the Depositary for such series shall no longer be registered or in good standing under the Exchange Act, or other applicable statute or regulation, and a successor Depositary for such series is not
appointed by the Company within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such condition, as the case may be, this Section 2.11 shall no longer be applicable to the Securities of such series and the Company will
execute, and subject to Section 2.05, the Trustee will authenticate and deliver the Securities of such series in definitive registered form without coupons, in authorized denominations, and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
principal amount of the Global Security of such series in exchange for such Global Security. In addition, the Company may at any time determine that the Securities of any series shall no longer be represented by a Global Security and that the
provisions of this Section 2.11 shall no longer apply to the Securities of such series. In such event the Company will execute and subject to Section 2.05, the Trustee, upon receipt of an Officers  Certificate evidencing such
determination by the Company, will authenticate and deliver the Securities of such series in definitive registered form without coupons, in authorized denominations, and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Global
Security of such series in exchange for such Global Security. Upon the exchange of the Global Security for such Securities in definitive registered form without coupons, in authorized denominations, the Global Security shall be canceled by the
Trustee. Such Securities in definitive registered form issued in exchange for the Global Security pursuant to this Section 2.11(c) shall be registered in such names and in such authorized denominations as the Depositary, pursuant to
instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee. The Trustee shall deliver such Securities to the Depositary for delivery to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered.   
  ARTICLE III   
  REDEMPTION OF SECURITIES AND SINKING FUND PROVISIONS      SECTION 3.01 Redemption.      The Company may redeem the Securities of any series
issued hereunder on and after the dates and in accordance with the terms established for such series pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof.   
         12   

SECTION 3.02 Notice of Redemption.   
  (a) In case the Company shall desire to exercise such right to redeem all or, as the case may be, a portion of the Securities of any
series in accordance with the right reserved so to do, the Company shall, or shall cause the Trustee to, give notice of such redemption to holders of the Securities of such series to be redeemed by mailing, first class postage prepaid, a notice of
such redemption not less than 30 days and not more than 90 days before the date fixed for redemption of that series to such holders at their last addresses as they shall appear upon the Security Register unless a shorter period is specified in the
Securities to be redeemed. Any notice that is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the registered holder receives the notice. In any case, failure duly to give such notice to the
holder of any Security of any series designated for redemption in whole or in part, or any defect in the notice, shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other Securities of such series or any other series. In the
case of any redemption of Securities prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officers  Certificate
evidencing compliance with any such restriction.      Each such notice of redemption shall specify the date fixed for redemption
and the redemption price at which Securities of that series are to be redeemed, and shall state that payment of the redemption price of such Securities to be redeemed will be made at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan,
the City and State of New York, upon presentation and surrender of such Securities, that interest accrued to the date fixed for redemption will be paid as specified in said notice, that from and after said date interest will cease to accrue and that
the redemption is for a sinking fund, if such is the case. If less than all the Securities of a series are to be redeemed, the notice to the holders of Securities of that series to be redeemed in whole or in part shall specify the particular
Securities to be so redeemed. In case any Security is to be redeemed in part only, the notice that relates to such Security shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed, and shall state that on and after the redemption
date, upon surrender of such Security, a new Security or Securities of such series in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued.      (b) If less than all the Securities of a series are to be redeemed, the Company shall give the Trustee at least 45 days  notice in advance of the date fixed for redemption as to the aggregate
principal amount of Securities of the series to be redeemed, and thereupon the Trustee shall select, by lot or in such other manner as it shall deem appropriate and fair in its discretion and that may provide for the selection of a portion or
portions (equal to one thousand U.S. dollars ($1,000) or any integral multiple thereof) of the principal amount of such Securities of a denomination larger than $1,000, the Securities to be redeemed and shall thereafter promptly notify the Company
in writing of the numbers of the Securities to be redeemed, in whole or in part.      The Company may, if and whenever it shall so
elect, by delivery of instructions signed on its behalf by its President or any Vice President, instruct the Trustee or any Paying Agent to call all or any part of the Securities of a particular series for redemption and to give notice of redemption
in the manner set forth in this Section, such notice to be in the name of the Company or its own name as the Trustee or such Paying Agent may deem advisable. In any case in which notice of redemption is to be given by the Trustee or any such Paying
Agent, the Company shall deliver or cause to be delivered to, or permit to remain with, the Trustee or such Paying Agent, as the case may be, such Security Register, transfer books or other records, or suitable copies or extracts therefrom,
sufficient to enable the Trustee or such Paying Agent to give any notice by mail that may be required under the provisions of this Section.      SECTION 3.03 Payment upon Redemption.      (a) If the giving of notice of redemption
shall have been completed as above provided, the Securities or portions of Securities of the series to be redeemed specified in such notice shall become due and payable on the date and at the place stated in such notice at the applicable redemption
price, together with interest accrued to the date fixed for redemption and interest on such Securities or portions of Securities shall cease to accrue on and after the date fixed for redemption, unless the Company shall default in the payment of
such redemption price and accrued interest with respect to any such Security or portion thereof. On presentation and surrender of such Securities on or after the date fixed for redemption at the place of payment specified in the notice, said
Securities shall be paid and redeemed at the applicable redemption price for such series, together with interest accrued thereon to the date fixed for redemption (but if the date fixed for redemption is an interest payment date, the interest
installment payable on such date shall be payable to the registered holder at the close of business on the applicable record date pursuant to Section 2.03).   
         13   

(b) Upon presentation of any Security of such series that is to be redeemed in part only,
the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and the office or agency where the Security is presented shall deliver to the holder thereof, at the expense of the Company, a new Security of the same series of authorized denominations
in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the Security so presented.      SECTION 3.04 Sinking Fund.   
  The provisions of Sections 3.04, 3.05 and 3.06 shall be applicable to any sinking fund for the retirement of Securities of a series,
except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 2.01 for Securities of such series.      The minimum amount of any
sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a  mandatory sinking fund payment,  and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of Securities of any series
is herein referred to as an  optional sinking fund payment . If provided for by the terms of Securities of any series, the cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 3.05. Each sinking
fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any series as provided for by the terms of Securities of such series.      SECTION 3.05 Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities.      The Company
(i) may deliver Outstanding Securities of a series (other than any Securities previously called for redemption) and (ii) may apply as a credit Securities of a series that have been redeemed either at the election of the Company pursuant to
the terms of such Securities or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments pursuant to the terms of such Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect to the Securities
of such series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities as provided for by the terms of such series, provided that such Securities have not been previously so credited. Such Securities shall be received and credited for such
purpose by the Trustee at the redemption price specified in such Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly.   
  SECTION 3.06 Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund.      Not less than 45 days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any series of Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers  Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing
sinking fund payment for that series pursuant to the terms of the series, the portion thereof, if any, that is to be satisfied by delivering and crediting Securities of that series pursuant to Section 3.05 and the basis for such credit and
will, together with such Officers  Certificate, deliver to the Trustee any Securities to be so delivered. Not less than 30 days before each such sinking fund payment date the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking
fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 3.02 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 3.02. Such notice having been duly given,
the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Section 3.03.      ARTICLE IV
     CERTAIN COVENANTS      SECTION 4.01 Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest.      (a) The Company shall
pay or cause to be paid the principal of and premium, if any, and interest (including interest accruing during any Deferral Period) on the Securities on or prior to the dates and in the manner provided in such Securities or pursuant to this
Indenture. An installment of principal, premium, if any, or interest shall be considered paid on the applicable due date if on such date the Trustee or the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with this Indenture, money sufficient to pay all of such
installment then due.   
         14   

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4.01(a) or any other provision herein to
the contrary, the Company shall have the right, as provided in an Officer s Certificate or Supplemental Indenture issued pursuant to Section 2.01, in its sole and absolute discretion at any time and from time to time while the Securities
of any series are outstanding, so long as no Event of Default with respect to such series of Securities has occurred and is continuing, to defer payments of interest by extending the interest payment period for such series of Securities for the
maximum consecutive period, if any, specified for such series of Securities, provided that such Deferral Period (or any extension thereof) may not extend beyond the Stated Maturity date or Redemption Date of any Security of such series, and must end
on an Interest Payment Date or, if the Securities are redeemed, on an Interest Payment Date or the Redemption Date for such Securities, and provided further that at the end of each Deferral Period the Company shall pay all interest then accrued and
unpaid (together with interest thereon to the extent permitted by applicable law at the rate accruing on such Securities). Prior to the termination of a Deferral Period, the Company may shorten or may further extend the interest payment period for
such series of Securities, provided that such Deferral Period together with all such previous and further extensions may not exceed the maximum consecutive period specified for such series of Securities, end on a date other than an Interest Payment
Date or extend beyond the Stated Maturity date or Redemption Date of any Security of such series. The Company shall give the Trustee written notice of the Company s election to begin a Deferral Period for any series of Securities and any
shortening or extension thereof at least five Business Days prior to the earlier of (i) the date the interest on such Securities or distributions on the related Preferred Securities are payable or (ii) the date the trustees of a MetLife
Trust are required to give notice to holders of Preferred Securities of such MetLife Trust of the record date or the date such distributions are payable, but in any event not less than five Business Days prior to such record date. The Company shall
give or cause the Trustee to give notice (a form of which shall be provided by the Company to the Trustee) of the Company s election to begin a Deferral Period to the Holders by first class mail, postage prepaid.   
  SECTION 4.02 Maintenance of Office or Agency.      So long as any series of the Securities remain Outstanding, the Company agrees to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, the City and State of New York, with respect to each such series
and at such other location or locations as may be designated as provided in this Section 4.02, where (i) Securities of that series may be presented for payment, (ii) Securities of that series may be presented as hereinabove authorized
for registration of transfer and exchange, and (iii) notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be given or served, such designation to continue with respect to such office or
agency until the Company shall, by written notice signed by its President or a Vice President and delivered to the trustee, designate some other office or agency for such purposes or any of them. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any
such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as
its agent to receive all such presentations, notices and demands.      The Company may also from time to time designate one or
more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission
shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in each Place of Payment for Securities of any series for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or
rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.      SECTION 4.03 Paying Agents.   
  (a) If the Company shall appoint one or more Paying Agents for all or any series of the Securities, other than the Trustee, the Company
will cause each such Paying Agent to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section:   
  (1) that it will hold all sums held by it as such agent for the payment of the principal of and premium, if any or
interest on the Securities of that series (whether such sums have been paid to it by the Company or by any other obligor of such Securities) in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto;   
  (2) that it will give the Trustee notice of any failure by the Company (or by any other obligor of such Securities) to
make any payment of the principal of and premium, if any or interest on the Securities of that series when the same shall be due and payable;   
         15   

(3) that it will, at any time during the continuance of any failure referred
to in the preceding paragraph (a)(2) above, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying Agent; and   
  (4) that it will perform all other duties of Paying Agent as set forth in this Indenture.   
  (b) If the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent with respect to any series of the Securities, it will on or before each due date of
the principal of, and premium, if any, or interest on Securities of that series, set aside, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay such principal, and premium, if any, or interest so
becoming due on Securities of that series until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of such action, or any failure (by it or any other obligor on such Securities)
to take such action. Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for any series of Securities, it will, prior to each due date of the principal of, and premium, if any, or interest on any Securities of that series, deposit with the
Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay the principal, and premium, if any, or interest so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such principal, premium or interest, and (unless such Paying Agent is the
Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of this action or failure so to act.      (c) Notwithstanding anything in
this Section to the contrary, (i) the agreement to hold sums in trust as provided in this Section is subject to the provisions of Section 11.05, and (ii) the Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and
discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same terms and conditions as those
upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.   
  (d) Except as otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.01, any
money or Government Obligations deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of any series and remaining unclaimed for two years
after such principal, premium or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company at its option at the request of the Company, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the holder of such Security
shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall
thereupon cease; provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in a newspaper published in the English language, customarily
published on each Business Day and of general circulation in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of
such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company.      SECTION 4.04 Statement by
Officers as to Default.      The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the
Company ending after the date hereof, an Officers  Certificate, stating whether or not to the best knowledge of the signers thereof the Company is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of
this Indenture (without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided hereunder) and, if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge.   
  SECTION 4.05 Existence.      Subject to Article Ten, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises; provided,
however, that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise if the Board of Directors shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and that the loss
thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the holders.   
         16   

SECTION 4.06 Payment of Taxes.   
  The Company will pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged, before the same shall become delinquent, all taxes, assessments and
governmental charges levied or imposed upon the Company or any Subsidiary or upon the income, profits or property of the Company or any Subsidiary, which, if unpaid, might by law become a lien upon the property of the Company or any Subsidiary;
provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged any such tax, assessment or governmental charge whose amount, applicability or validity is being contested in good faith by appropriate
proceedings.      SECTION 4.07 Limitation on Liens on Stock of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.   
  Except as otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.01, and for so
long as any Securities are Outstanding, the Company will not, and it will not permit any Subsidiary of the Company to, at any time directly or indirectly create, assume, incur, guarantee or permit to exist any Indebtedness secured by a mortgage,
pledge, lien, security interest, or other encumbrance (any mortgage, pledge, lien, security interest or other encumbrance being hereinafter in this Section referred to as a  lien ) on the capital stock of MLIC, of any successor to
substantially all of the business of MLIC which is also a Subsidiary of the Company, or of any corporation (other than the Company) having direct or indirect control of MLIC without making effective provision whereby the Securities then Outstanding
(and, if the Company so elects, any other Indebtedness of the Company that is not subordinate to the Securities and with respect to which the governing instruments require, or pursuant to which the Company is otherwise obligated or required, to
provide such security) shall be equally and ratably secured with such secured Indebtedness so long as such other Indebtedness shall be secured. For purposes of this Section 4.07 only,  Indebtedness,  in addition to those items
specified in Section 1.01 hereof, shall include any obligation of, or any such obligation guaranteed by, any Person for the payment of amounts due under a swap agreement or other similar instrument or agreement or foreign currency hedge
exchange or similar instrument or agreement.      If the Company shall hereafter be required to secure the Securities equally and
ratably with any other Indebtedness pursuant to this Section, (i) the Company will promptly deliver to the Trustee an Officers  Certificate stating that the foregoing covenant has been complied with, and an Opinion of Counsel stating that
in the opinion of such counsel the foregoing covenant has been complied with and that any instruments executed by the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company in the performance of the foregoing covenant comply with the requirements of the foregoing
covenant and (ii) the Trustee is hereby authorized to enter into an indenture or agreement supplemental hereto and to take such action, if any, as it may deem advisable to enable it to enforce the rights of the holders of the Securities so
secured.      SECTION 4.08 Limitations on Disposition of Stock of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.   
  Except in a transaction governed by Article Ten hereof, so long as Securities of any series are Outstanding, neither the Company nor any
of its Subsidiaries will sell or otherwise dispose of any shares of capital stock (other than preferred stock having no voting rights of any kind) of MLIC, or of any such successor to substantially all of the business of MLIC which is also a
Subsidiary of the Company, or of any corporation (other than the Company) having direct or indirect control of MLIC or any such successor. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may sell or otherwise dispose of shares of capital stock of MLIC
(i) to any wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, (ii) for at least fair value (as determined by the Company s Board of Directors acting in good faith) or (iii) to comply with an order of a court or regulatory authority of
competent jurisdiction, other than an order issued at the Company s request or the request of any of the Company s Subsidiaries.      SECTION 4.09 Covenants as to MetLife Trusts.      In the event Securities are issued
to a MetLife Trust or a trustee of such trust in connection with the issuance of Trust Securities of such MetLife Trust, for so long as such Trust Securities remain outstanding, the Company will covenant (i) to directly or indirectly maintain
100% ownership of the Common Securities of such MetLife Trust; provided, however, that any permitted successor of the Company under this Indenture may succeed to the Company s ownership of such Common Securities, (ii) to use its reasonable
efforts to cause such MetLife Trust (a) to remain a statutory business trust, except in connection with the distribution of Securities to the holders of Trust Securities in liquidation of such MetLife Trust, the redemption of all of the Trust
Securities of such MetLife Trust, or certain mergers, consolidations or amalgamations, each as permitted by the Declaration of such MetLife Trust, and (b) to continue to be classified as a grantor trust for United States federal income tax
purposes and (iii) to use its reasonable efforts to cause each holder of Trust Securities to be treated as owning an undivided beneficial interest in the Securities.   
         17   

SECTION 4.10 Waiver of Certain Covenants.   
  Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 2.01 for Securities of such series, the Company may, with respect to the
Securities of any series, omit in any particular instance to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in any covenant provided pursuant to Sections 2.01(16), 9.01(4) or 9.01(7) for the benefit of the holders of such series or in any of
Sections 4.06 to 4.08, inclusive, if before the time for such compliance the holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall, by act of such holders, either waive such compliance in
such instance or generally waive compliance with such term, provision or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such term, provision or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become
effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such term, provision or condition shall remain in full force and effect.      SECTION 4.11 Appointment to Fill Vacancy in Office of Trustee.      The Company,
whenever necessary to avoid or fill a vacancy in the office of Trustee, will appoint, in the manner provided in Section 7.10, a Trustee, so that there shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder.   
  SECTION 4.12 Compliance with Consolidation Provisions.      The Company will not, while any of the Securities remain Outstanding, consolidate with, or merge into, or merge into itself, or sell or convey all or substantially all of its property to any other company
unless the provisions of Article Ten hereof are complied with.      ARTICLE V   
  SECURITYHOLDERS  LISTS AND REPORTS BY THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE   
  SECTION 5.01 Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Securityholders.   
  The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee (a) on a monthly basis on each regular record date a list, in such
form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the holders of each series of Securities as of such regular record date, provided that the Company shall not be obligated to furnish or cause to furnish such list at any time
that the list shall not differ in any respect from the most recent list furnished to the Trustee by the Company and (b) at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing within 30 days after the receipt by the Company of any such
request, a list of similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished; provided, however, that, in either case, no such list need be furnished for any series for which the Trustee shall be the
Security Registrar.      SECTION 5.02 Preservation Of Information; Communications With Securityholders.   
  (a) The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, all information as to the names and addresses of the
holders of Securities contained in the most recent list furnished to it as provided in Section 5.01 and as to the names and addresses of holders of Securities received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar (if acting in such
capacity).      (b) The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 5.01 upon receipt of a new list
so furnished.      (c) Securityholders may communicate as provided in Section 312(b) of the Trust Indenture Act with other
Securityholders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities.   
         18   

SECTION 5.03 Reports by the Company.   
  (a) The Company covenants and agrees to file with the Trustee, within 15 days after the Company is required to file the same with the
Commission, copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports (or      copies of such portions of any of the
foregoing as the Commission may from time to time by rules and regulations prescribe) that the Company may be required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act; or, if the Company is not
required to file information, documents or reports pursuant to either of such sections, then to file with the Trustee and the Commission, in accordance with the rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such of the
supplementary and periodic information, documents and reports that may be required pursuant to Section 13 of the Exchange Act, in respect of a security listed and registered on a national securities exchange as may be prescribed from time to
time in such rules and regulations.      (b) The Company covenants and agrees to file with the Trustee and the Commission, in
accordance with the rules and regulations prescribed from to time by the Commission, such additional information, documents and reports with respect to compliance by the Company with the conditions and covenants provided for in this Indenture as may
be required from time to time by such rules and regulations.      (c) The Company covenants and agrees to transmit to the
Securityholders, such summaries of any information, documents and reports required to be filed by the Company pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of this Section as may be required by the Trust Indenture Act and the rules and regulations
prescribed from time to time by the Commission.      SECTION 5.04 Reports by the Trustee.   
  (a) On or before July 15 in each year in which any of the Securities are Outstanding, the Trustee shall transmit by mail, first class
postage prepaid, to the Securityholders, as their names and addresses appear upon the Security Register, a brief report dated as of the preceding May 15, if and to the extent required under Section 313(a) of the Trust Indenture Act.
     (b) The Trustee shall comply with Sections 313(b) and 313(c) of the Trust Indenture Act.   
  (c) A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Securityholders, be filed by the Trustee with the Company, with
each stock exchange upon which any Securities are listed (if so listed) and also with the Commission. The Company agrees to notify the Trustee when any Securities become listed on any stock exchange.   
  ARTICLE VI   
  REMEDIES OF THE TRUSTEE AND SECURITYHOLDERS ON EVENT OF DEFAULT      SECTION 6.01 Events of Default.      (a) Whenever used herein with respect to
Securities of a particular series,  Event of Default  means any one or more of the following events that has occurred and is continuing, unless such event is specifically deleted or modified in accordance with Section 2.01:
     (1) the Company defaults in the payment of any installment of interest upon any of the Securities of that
series, as and when the same shall become due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; provided, however, that during any Deferral Period for the Securities of that series, failure to pay interest on the Securities of
that series shall not constitute a default in the payment of interest for this purpose; and, provided, further, that a valid extension of an interest payment period by the Company in accordance with the terms of any indenture supplemental hereto,
shall not constitute a default in the payment of interest for this purpose;      (2) the Company defaults in the
payment of the principal of, or premium, if any, on any of the Securities of that series as and when the same shall become due and payable whether at maturity, upon redemption, because of acceleration or otherwise, or in any payment required by any
sinking or analogous fund established with respect to that series; provided, however, that a valid extension of the maturity of such Securities in accordance with the terms of any indenture supplemental hereto shall not constitute a default in the
payment of principal or premium, if any;      (3) the Company fails to observe or perform any other of its
covenants or agreements with respect to that series contained in this Indenture or otherwise established with respect to that series of Securities pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof (other than a covenant or agreement that has been expressly
included in this Indenture solely for the benefit   
         19   

of one or more series of Securities other than such series) for a period of 90 days after
the date on which written notice of such failure, requiring the same to be remedied and stating that such notice is a  Notice of Default  hereunder, shall have been given to the Company by the Trustee, by registered or certified mail, or
to the Company and the Trustee by the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Securities of that series at the time Outstanding;      (4) an event of default, as defined in any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued, or by which there may be secured or evidenced, any Indebtedness for money borrowed of the
Company (other than a default under this Indenture with respect to Securities of any series or a default with respect to any non-recourse Indebtedness), whether such Indebtedness now exists or shall hereafter be created, shall happen and shall
result in a principal amount in excess of $100,000,000 of Indebtedness becoming or being declared due and payable prior to the date on which it would otherwise have become due and payable, and such acceleration shall not have been rescinded or
annulled, or such Indebtedness shall not have been discharged, within a period of 15 days after there has been given, by registered or certified United States mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the holders of at
least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series a written notice specifying such event of default and requiring the Company to cause such acceleration to be rescinded or annulled or to cause such Indebtedness to
be discharged and stating that such notice is a  Notice of Default  hereunder;      (5) the entry by a
court of competent jurisdiction of:      (i) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an
involuntary proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law and such decree or order shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days;      (ii) a decree or order adjudging the Company to be insolvent, or approving a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of the Company and such decree or order shall remain
unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or      (iii) a final and non-appealable order
appointing a Custodian of the Company or of any substantial part of the property of the Company, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of the affairs of the Company;   
  (6) the Company pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law: (i) commences a voluntary case or
proceeding; (ii) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case or proceeding; (iii) files a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief or consents to such filing or to the appointment of
or taking possession by a Custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its property, and such Custodian is not discharged within 60 days; (iv) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or (v) admits in writing its
inability to pay its debts generally as they become due;      (7) in the event Securities are issued to a MetLife
Trust or a trustee of such trust in connection with the issuance of Trust Securities by such MetLife Trust, such MetLife Trust shall have voluntarily or involuntarily dissolved, wound up its business or otherwise terminated its existence, except in
connection with (i) the distribution of Securities to holders of Trust Securities in liquidation of their interests in such MetLife Trust, (ii) the redemption of all of the outstanding Trust Securities of such MetLife Trust or
(iii) certain mergers, consolidations or amalgamations, each as permitted by the Declaration of such MetLife Trust; or      (8) any other Event of Default provided for pursuant to Section 2.01 with respect to Securities of that series.      (b) Except as otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.01, if an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in
Sections 6.01(a)(5) or 6.01(a)(6)) with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, either the Trustee or the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of that series then
Outstanding hereunder, by notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by such Securityholders), may declare the principal of all the Securities of that series (or, if any Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount
Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of such series) to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration the same shall become and shall be immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default
specified in Sections 6.01(a)(5) or 6.01(a)(6) with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs, the principal amount of all the Securities of that series (or, if any Securities of that series are   
         20   

Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount of such Securities as may be
specified by the terms thereof) shall automatically, and without any declaration or other action on the part of the Trustee or any holder, become immediately due and payable.      (c) At any time after the principal of the Securities of that series shall have been so declared due and payable, and before any judgment or decree for the payment of the moneys due shall have been
obtained or entered as hereinafter provided, the holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of that series then Outstanding hereunder, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such
declaration and its consequences if: (i) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay all matured installments of interest upon all the Securities of that series and the principal of, and premium, if any, on any
and all Securities of that series that shall have become due otherwise than by acceleration (with interest upon such principal and premium, if any, and, to the extent that such payment is enforceable under applicable law, upon overdue installments
of interest, at the rate per annum or Yield to Maturity (in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) expressed in the Securities of that series (or at the respective rates of interest or Yields to Maturity of all the Securities, as the case
may be) to the date of such payment or deposit) and the amount payable to the Trustee under Section 7.06, and (ii) any and all Events of Default under the Indenture with respect to such series, other than the nonpayment of principal on
Securities of that series (or, if any Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of such series) that shall not have become due by their terms, shall have
been remedied or waived as provided in Section 6.08.      No such rescission and annulment shall extend to or shall affect
any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.      (d) In case the Trustee shall have proceeded to enforce any
right with respect to Securities of that series under this Indenture and such proceedings shall have been discontinued or abandoned because of such rescission or annulment or for any other reason or shall have been determined adversely to the
Trustee, then and in every such case the Company, and the Trustee shall be restored respectively to their former positions and rights hereunder, and all rights, remedies and powers of the Company and the Trustee shall continue as though no such
proceedings had been taken.      SECTION 6.02 Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee.   
  (a) The Company covenants that (1) in case it shall default in the payment of any installment of interest on any of the Securities of
a series, or any payment required by any sinking or analogous fund established with respect to that series as and when the same shall have become due and payable, and such default shall have continued for a period of 90 Business Days, or (2) in
case it shall default in the payment of the principal of, or premium, if any, on any of the Securities of a series when the same shall have become due and payable, whether upon maturity of the Securities of a series or upon redemption or upon
declaration or otherwise, then, upon demand of the Trustee, the Company will pay to the Trustee, for the benefit of the holders of the Securities of that series, the whole amount that then shall have been become due and payable on all such
Securities for principal, and premium, if any, or interest, or both, as the case may be, with interest upon the overdue principal, and premium, if any, and (to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law) upon
overdue installments of interest at the rate per annum expressed in the Securities of that series; and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, and the amount payable to the
Trustee under Section 7.06.      (b) If the Company shall fail to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand, the Trustee,
in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, shall be entitled and empowered to institute any action or proceedings at law or in equity for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, and may prosecute any such action or proceeding to
judgment or final decree, and may enforce any such judgment or final decree against the Company or other obligor upon the Securities of that series and collect the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of the
property of the Company or other obligor upon the Securities of that series, wherever situated.      (c) In case of any
receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, readjustment, arrangement, composition or judicial proceedings affecting the Company, or its creditors or property, the Trustee shall have power to intervene in such proceedings and
take any action therein that may be permitted by the court and shall (except as may be otherwise provided by law) be entitled to file such proofs of claim and other papers and documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of
the Trustee and of the holders of Securities of such series allowed for the entire amount due and payable by the Company under the Indenture at the date of institution of such proceedings and for any additional   
         21   

amount that may become due and payable by the Company after such date, and to collect and receive any moneys
or other property payable or deliverable on any such claim, and to distribute the same after the deduction of the amount payable to the Trustee under Section 7.06; and any receiver, assignee or trustee in bankruptcy or reorganization is hereby
authorized by each of the holders of Securities of such series to make such payments to the Trustee, and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to such Securityholders, to pay to the Trustee any amount
due it under Section 7.06.      (d) All rights of action and of asserting claims under this Indenture, or under any of the
terms established with respect to Securities of that series, may be enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of such Securities, or the production thereof at any trial or other proceeding relative thereto, and any such suit or
proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for payment to the Trustee of any amounts due under Section 7.06, be for the ratable
benefit of the holders of the Securities of such series.      In case of an Event of Default hereunder, the Trustee may in its
discretion proceed to protect and enforce the rights vested in it by this Indenture by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any of such rights, either at law or in equity or in
bankruptcy or otherwise, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement contained in the Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted in this Indenture, or to enforce any other legal or equitable right vested in the
Trustee by this Indenture or by law.      Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or
consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Securityholder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities of that series or the rights of any holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in
respect of the claim of any Securityholder in any such proceeding.      SECTION 6.03 Application of Moneys Collected.   
  Any moneys collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article with respect to a particular series of Securities shall be applied in the
following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such moneys on account of principal, or premium, if any, or interest, upon presentation of the Securities of that series, and notation thereon the
payment, if only partially paid, and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:      FIRST: To the payment of costs and
expenses of collection and of all amounts payable to the Trustee under Section 7.06;      SECOND: To the
payment of the amounts then due and unpaid upon Securities of such series for principal, and premium, if any, and interest, in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any
kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal, and premium, if any, and interest, respectively and      THIRD: To the payment of the remainder, if any, to the Company, its successors or assigns or to whomever may be lawfully entitled to receive the same or as a court of competent jurisdiction may direct.
  
         22   

SECTION 6.04 Limitation on Suits.   
  No holder of any Security of any series shall have any right by virtue or by availing of any provision of this Indenture to institute any
suit, action or proceeding in equity or at law upon or under or with respect to this Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless (i) such holder previously shall have given to the Trustee
written notice of an Event of Default and of the continuance thereof with respect to the Securities of such series specifying such Event of Default, as hereinbefore provided; (ii) the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount
of the Securities of such series then Outstanding shall have made written request upon the Trustee to institute such action, suit or proceeding in its own name as trustee hereunder; (iii) such holder or holders shall have offered to the Trustee
such reasonable indemnity as it may require against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred therein or thereby; and (iv) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity, shall have failed to
institute any such action, suit or proceeding and (v) during such 60 day period, the holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of that series do not give the Trustee a direction inconsistent with the request.   
  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, any other provisions of this Indenture, the right of any holder of any
Security to receive payment of the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on such Security, as therein provided, on or after the respective due dates expressed in such Security (or in the case of redemption, on the redemption date), or to
institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates or redemption date, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such holder and by accepting a Security hereunder it is expressly understood,
intended and covenanted by the taker and holder of every Security of such series with every other such taker and holder and the Trustee, that no one or more holders of Securities of such series shall have any right in any manner whatsoever by virtue
or by availing of any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of the holders of any other of such Securities, or to obtain or seek to obtain priority over or preference to any other such holder, or to enforce any right
under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal, ratable and common benefit of all holders of Securities of such series. For the protection and enforcement of the provisions of this Section, each and every Securityholder
and the Trustee shall be entitled to such relief as can be given either at law or in equity.      SECTION 6.05 Rights and Remedies
Cumulative; Delay or Omission Not Waiver.      (a) Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.07, all powers and remedies given
by this Article to the Trustee or to the Securityholders shall, to the extent permitted by law, be deemed cumulative and not exclusive of any other powers and remedies available to the Trustee or the holders of the Securities, by judicial
proceedings or otherwise, to enforce the performance or observance of the covenants and agreements contained in this Indenture or otherwise established with respect to such Securities.   
  (b) No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any holder of any of the Securities to exercise any right or power accruing upon any Event
of Default occurring and continuing as aforesaid shall impair any such right or power, or shall be construed to be a waiver of any such default or on acquiescence therein; and, subject to the provisions of Section 6.04, every power and remedy
given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or the Securityholders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as shall be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Securityholders.   
  SECTION 6.06 Control by Securityholders.      The holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding, determined in accordance with Section 8.04, shall have the right to direct the time,
method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee with respect to such series; provided, however, that such direction shall not be in conflict with any
rule of law or with this Indenture or be unduly prejudicial to the rights of holders of Securities of any other series at the time Outstanding determined in accordance with Section 8.04. Subject to the provisions of Section 7.01, the
Trustee shall have the right to decline to follow any such direction if the Trustee in good faith shall, by a Responsible Officer or Officers of the Trustee, determine that the proceeding so directed would involve the Trustee in personal liability.
  
         23   

SECTION 6.07 Undertaking to Pay Costs.   
  All parties to this Indenture agree, and each holder of any Securities by such holder s acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have
agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant
in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys  fees, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and
good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; but the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Securityholder, or group of Securityholders, holding more than
10% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, or to any suit instituted by any Securityholder for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on any Security of such series, on
or after the respective due dates expressed in such Security or established pursuant to this Indenture.      SECTION 6.08 Waiver
of Past Defaults.      The holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series,
determined in accordance with Section 8.04, may on behalf of the holders of all the Securities of such series waive any past default hereunder with respect to such series and its consequences, except a default   
  (1) in the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of such series, or   
  (2) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article Nine cannot be modified or amended without the
consent of the holder of each Outstanding Security of such series affected; provided, however, that if the Securities of such series are held by a MetLife Trust or a trustee of such trust, such waiver or modification to such waiver shall not be
effective until the holders of a majority in liquidation preference of Trust Securities of the applicable MetLife Trust shall have consented to such waiver or modification to such waiver; provided, further, that if the consent of the holder of each
outstanding Security is required, such waiver shall not be effective until each holder of the Trust Securities of the applicable MetLife Trust shall have consented to such waiver.   
  Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured,
for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.      ARTICLE VII      CONCERNING THE TRUSTEE   
  SECTION 7.01 Certain Duties and Responsibilities of Trustee.      (a) The Trustee, prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of a series and after the curing of all Events of Default with respect to the Securities of that series that
may have occurred, shall undertake to perform with respect to the Securities of such series such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants shall be read into this Indenture against the
Trustee. In case an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of a series has occurred (that has not been cured or waived), the Trustee shall exercise with respect to Securities of that series such of the rights and powers vested in it by this
Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs.      (b) No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:
     (1) prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of a series and after the
curing or waiving of all such Events of Default with respect to that series that may have occurred:   
         24   

(a) the duties and obligations of the Trustee shall with respect to the
Securities of such series be determined solely by the express provisions of this Indenture, and the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to the Securities of such series except for the performance of such duties and obligations as are
specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and      (b) in the absence of bad faith on the part of the Trustee, the Trustee may with respect to the Securities of such series conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the
opinions expressed therein, upon any certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; but in the case of any such certificates or opinions that by any provision hereof are specifically required
to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture;   
  (2) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer or Responsible
Officers of the Trustee, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee, was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts;      (3) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the holders of not less than a majority in principal
amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee under this
Indenture with respect to the Securities of that series; and      (4) None of the provisions contained in this
Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur personal financial liability in the performance of any of its duties or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if there is reasonable ground for
believing that the repayment of such funds or liability is not reasonably assured to it under the terms of this Indenture or adequate indemnity against such risk is not reasonably assured to it.   
  SECTION 7.02 Certain Rights of Trustee.      Except as otherwise provided in Section 7.01:      (a) The Trustee may rely and
shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, approval, bond, security or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to
have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;      (b) Any request, direction, order or demand of the Company
mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution or an instrument signed in the name of the Company, by the President or any Vice President and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or the Treasurer or an Assistant
Treasurer thereof (unless other evidence in respect thereof is specifically prescribed herein);      (c) The Trustee may consult
with counsel and the written advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken or suffered or omitted hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;   
  (d) The Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request, order
or direction of any of the Securityholders, pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture, unless such Securityholders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities that may be incurred
therein or thereby; nothing contained herein shall, however, relieve the Trustee of the obligation, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default with respect to a series of the Securities (that has not been cured or waived) to exercise with respect to
Securities of that series such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and to use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs;
  
         25   

(e) The Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in
good faith and believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture;      (f) The Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order,
approval, bond, security, or other papers or documents, unless requested in writing so to do by the holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of the particular series affected thereby (determined as
provided in Section 8.04); provided, however, that if the payment within a reasonable time to the Trustee of the costs, expenses or liabilities likely to be incurred by it in the making of such investigation is, in the opinion of the Trustee,
not reasonably assured to the Trustee by the security afforded to it by the terms of this Indenture, the Trustee may require reasonable indemnity against such costs, expenses or liabilities as a condition to so proceeding. The reasonable expense of
every such examination shall be paid by the Company or, if paid by the Trustee, shall be repaid by the Company upon demand; and   
  (g) The Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents
or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder.      SECTION 7.03 Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance or Securities.      (a)
The recitals contained herein and in the Securities shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the same.      (b) The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities.      (c) The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of any of the Securities or of the proceeds of such Securities, or for the use or application of any moneys paid over by
the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture or established pursuant to Section 2.01, or for the use or application of any moneys received by any Paying Agent other than the Trustee.   
  SECTION 7.04 May Hold Securities.      The Trustee or any Paying Agent or Security Registrar, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee,
Paying Agent or Security Registrar.      SECTION 7.05 Moneys Held in Trust.   
  Subject to the provisions of Section 11.05, all moneys received by the Trustee shall, until used or applied as herein provided, be
held in trust for the purposes for which they were received, but need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any moneys received by it hereunder except such as
it may agree with the Company to pay thereon.      SECTION 7.06 Compensation and Reimbursement.   
  (a) The Company covenants and agrees to pay to the Trustee, and the Trustee shall be entitled to, such reasonable compensation (which
shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust), as the Company, and the Trustee may from time to time agree in writing, for all services rendered by it in the execution of the trusts
hereby created and in the exercise and performance of any of the powers and duties hereunder of the Trustee, and, except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the Company will pay or reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable
expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any of the provisions of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its counsel and of all Persons not regularly
in its employ) except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may arise from its negligence or bad faith. The Company also covenants to indemnify the Trustee (and its officers, agents, directors and employees) for, and to hold it harmless
against, any loss, liability or expense incurred without negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee and arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this trust, including the costs and expenses of defending itself
against any claim of liability in the premises.   
         26   

(b) The obligations of the Company under this Section to compensate and indemnify the
Trustee and to pay or reimburse the Trustee for expenses, disbursements and advances shall constitute additional indebtedness hereunder. Such additional indebtedness shall be secured by a lien prior to that of the Securities upon all property and
funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the benefit of the holders of particular Securities.      SECTION 7.07 Reliance on Officers  Certificate.      Except as otherwise provided
in Section 7.01, whenever in the administration of the provisions of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking or suffering or omitting to take any action hereunder,
such matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by an Officers  Certificate
delivered to the Trustee and such certificate, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, shall be full warrant to the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted to be taken by it under the provisions of this
Indenture upon the faith thereof.      SECTION 7.08 Disqualification; Conflicting Interests.   
  If the Trustee has or shall acquire any  conflicting interest  within the meaning of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture
Act, the Trustee and the Company shall in all respects comply with the provisions of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.      SECTION 7.09 Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility.      There shall at all times be
a Trustee with respect to the Securities issued hereunder which shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America or any State or Territory thereof or of the District of Columbia, or a
corporation or other Person permitted to act as trustee by the Commission, authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers, having a combined capital and surplus of at least 50 million U.S. dollars ($50,000,000), and subject to
supervision or examination by federal, state, territorial, or District of Columbia authority. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of the aforesaid supervising or examining
authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. The Company may not, nor
may any Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the Company, serve as Trustee. In case at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee
shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in Section 7.10.      SECTION 7.10 Resignation and
Removal; Appointment of Successor.      (a) The Trustee or any successor hereafter appointed, may at any time resign with respect
to the Securities of one or more series by giving written notice thereof to the Company and by transmitting notice of resignation by mail, first class postage prepaid, to the Securityholders of such series, as their names and addresses appear upon
the Security Register. Upon receiving such notice of resignation, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor trustee with respect to Securities of such series by written instrument, in duplicate, executed by order of the Board of Directors, one
copy of which instrument shall be delivered to the resigning Trustee and one copy to the successor trustee. If no successor trustee shall have been so appointed and have accepted appointment within 30 days after the mailing of such notice of
resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor trustee with respect to Securities of such series, or any Securityholder of that series who has been a bona fide holder of a
Security or Securities for at least six months may on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any such court for the appointment of a successor trustee. Such court may thereupon after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper
and prescribe, appoint a successor trustee.      (b) In case at any time any one of the following shall occur:   
  (1) the Trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions of Section 7.08 after written request therefor by the
Company or by any Securityholder who has been a bona fide holder of a Security or Securities for at least six months; or   
         27   

(2) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions
of Section 7.09 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Securityholder; or      (3) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting, or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent, or commence a voluntary bankruptcy proceeding, or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be
appointed or consented to, or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation;      then, in any such case, (i) the Company may remove the Trustee with respect to all Securities and appoint a successor trustee by written instrument, in duplicate, executed by order of the Board of
Directors, one copy of which instrument shall be delivered to the Trustee so removed and one copy to the successor trustee, or (ii) unless the Trustee s duty to resign is stayed as provided herein, any Securityholder who has been a bona
fide holder of a Security or Securities for at least six months may, on behalf of that holder and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor trustee.
Such court may thereupon after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, remove the Trustee and appoint a successor trustee.      (c) The holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding may at any time remove the Trustee with respect to such series by so notifying the
Trustee and the Company and may appoint a successor Trustee for such series with the consent of the Company.      (d) Any
resignation or removal of the Trustee and appointment of a successor trustee with respect to the Securities of a series pursuant to any of the provisions of this Section shall become effective upon acceptance of appointment by the successor trustee
as provided in Section 7.11.      (e) Any successor trustee appointed pursuant to this Section may be appointed with respect
to the Securities of one or more series or all of such series, and at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular series.      SECTION 7.11 Acceptance of Appointment By Successor.      (a) In case of the
appointment hereunder of a successor trustee with respect to all Securities, every such successor trustee so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and
thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee;
but, on the request of the Company or the successor trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor trustee all the rights, powers, and trusts of the retiring
Trustee and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder.      (b) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor trustee with
respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein each successor trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or
desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor trustee
relates, (2) shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the
retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts
hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust, that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder
separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee and that no Trustee shall be responsible for any act or failure to act on the part of any other Trustee hereunder; and upon the execution and delivery of
such supplemental indenture the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein, such retiring Trustee shall with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such
successor trustee relates have no further   
         28   

responsibility for the exercise of rights and powers or for the performance of the duties and obligations
vested in the Trustee under this Indenture, and each such successor trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of
that or those series to which the appointment of such successor trustee relates; but, on request of the Company or any successor trustee, such retiring Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor trustee, to the extent
contemplated by such supplemental indenture, the property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor trustee relates.   
  (c) Upon request of any such successor trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in
and confirming to such successor trustee all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, as the case may be.      (d) No successor trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article.   
  (e) Upon acceptance of appointment by a successor trustee as provided in this Section, the Company shall transmit notice of the
succession of such trustee hereunder by mail, first class postage prepaid, to the Securityholders, as their names and addresses appear upon the Security Register. If the Company fails to transmit such notice within ten days after acceptance of
appointment by the successor trustee, the successor trustee shall cause such notice to be transmitted at the expense of the Company.      SECTION 7.12 Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business.      Any
corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to the
corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided that such corporation shall be qualified under the provisions of Section 7.08 and eligible under the provisions of Section 7.09, without the
execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto, anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office,
any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities.
     SECTION 7.13 Preferential Collection of Claims against the Company.   
  The Trustee shall comply with Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, excluding any creditor relationship described in
Section 311(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act to the extent included therein.   
  ARTICLE VIII   
  CONCERNING THE SECURITYHOLDERS      SECTION 8.01 Evidence of Action by Securityholders.      Whenever in this Indenture it
is provided that the holders of a majority or specified percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of a particular series may take any action (including the making of any demand or request, the giving of any notice, consent or waiver
or the taking of any other action), the fact that at the time of taking any such action the holders of such majority or specified percentage of that series have joined therein may be evidenced by any instrument or any number of instruments of
similar tenor executed by such holders of Securities of that series in Person or by agent or proxy appointed in writing.      If
the Company shall solicit from the Securityholders of any series any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, the Company may, at its option, as evidenced by an Officers  Certificate, fix in advance a
record date for such series for the determination of Securityholders entitled to give such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, but the Company shall have no obligation to do so. If such a   
         29   

record date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other
action may be given before or after the record date, but only the Securityholders of record at the close of business on the record date shall be deemed to be Securityholders for the purposes of determining whether Securityholders of the requisite
proportion of Outstanding Securities of that series have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, and for that purpose the Outstanding Securities of that series
shall be computed as of the record date; provided, however, that no such authorization, agreement or consent by such Securityholders on the record date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this
Indenture not later than six months after the record date.      SECTION 8.02 Proof of Execution by Securityholders.   
  Subject to the provisions of Section 7.01, proof of the execution of any instrument by a Securityholder (such proof will not require
notarization) or his agent or proxy and proof of the holding by any Person of any of the Securities shall be sufficient if made in the following manner:      (a) The fact and date of the execution by any such Person of any instrument may be proved in any reasonable manner acceptable to the Trustee.   
  (b) The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Security Register of such Securities or by a certificate of the Security Registrar
thereof.      (c) The Trustee may require such additional proof of any matter referred to in this Section as it shall deem
necessary.      SECTION 8.03 Who May be Deemed Owners.      Prior to the due presentment for registration of transfer of any Security, the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent and any Security Registrar may deem and treat the Person in whose name such Security
shall be registered upon the books of the Company as the absolute owner of such Security (whether or not such Security shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notice of ownership or writing thereon made by anyone other than the Security Registrar)
for the purpose of receiving payment of or on account of the principal of, premium, if any, and (subject to Section 2.03) interest on such Security and for all other purposes; and neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any Paying Agent nor any
Security Registrar shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.      SECTION 8.04 Certain Securities Owned by Company
Disregarded.      In determining whether the holders of the requisite aggregate principal amount of Securities of a particular
series have concurred in any direction, consent of waiver under this Indenture, the Securities of that series that are owned by the Company or any other obligor on the Securities of that series or by any Person directly or indirectly controlling or
controlled by or under common control with the Company or any other obligor on the Securities of that series shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding for the purpose of any such determination, except that for the purpose of determining
whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such direction, consent or waiver, only Securities of such series that the Trustee actually knows are so owned shall be so disregarded. The Securities so owned that have been pledged in good
faith may be regarded as Outstanding for the purposes of this Section, if the pledgee shall establish to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee s right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not a Person directly
or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Company or any such other obligor. In case of a dispute as to such right, any decision by the Trustee taken upon the advice of counsel shall be full
protection to the Trustee.   
         30   

SECTION 8.05 Actions Binding on Future Securityholders.   
  At any time prior to (but not after) the evidencing to the Trustee, as provided in Section 8.01, of the taking of any action by the
holders of the majority or percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of a particular series specified in this Indenture in connection with such action, any holder of a Security of that series that is shown by the evidence to be
included in the Securities the holders of which have consented to such action may, by filing written notice with the Trustee, and upon proof of holding as provided in Section 8.02, revoke such action so far as concerns such Security. Except as
aforesaid any such action taken by the holder of any Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and upon all future holders and owners of such Security, and of any Security issued in exchange therefor, on registration of transfer
thereof or in place thereof, irrespective of whether or not any notation in regard thereto is made upon such Security. Any action taken by the holders of the majority or percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of a particular
series specified in this Indenture in connection with such action shall be conclusively binding upon the Company, the Trustee and the holders of all the Securities of that series.   
  ARTICLE IX   
  SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES      SECTION 9.01 Supplemental Indentures without the Consent of Securityholders.      In
addition to any supplemental indenture otherwise authorized by this Indenture, the Company and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto (which shall conform to the provisions of the
Trust Indenture Act as then in effect), without the consent of the Securityholders, for one or more of the following purposes:      (1) to cure any ambiguity, defect, or inconsistency herein, in the Securities of any series;      (2) to comply with Article Ten;      (3) to provide for uncertificated
Securities in addition to or in place of certificated Securities;      (4) to add to the covenants of the Company
for the benefit of the holders of all or any Series of Securities (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series)
or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company;      (5) to add to, delete from, or revise
the conditions, limitations, and restrictions on the authorized amount, terms, or purposes of issue, authentication, and delivery of Securities, as herein set forth;   
  (6) to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Securityholder in any material respect;
     (7) to provide for the issuance of and establish the form and terms and conditions of the Securities of any
series as provided in Section 2.01, to establish the form of any certifications required to be furnished pursuant to the terms of this Indenture or any series of Securities, or to add to the rights of the holders of any series of Securities;
     (8) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the holders of all or any series of Securities
(and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series) or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the
Company;      (9) to add any additional Events of Default for the benefit of the holders of all or any series of
Securities (and if such additional Events of Default are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such additional Events of Default are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series);   
         31   

(10) to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture to such
extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the issuance of Securities in uncertificated form;      (11)
to add to, change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture in respect of one or more series of Securities, provided that any such addition, change or elimination (A) shall neither (i) apply to any Security of any series created
prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture and entitled to the benefit of such provision nor (ii) modify the rights of the holder of any such Security with respect to such provision or (B) shall become effective only when there
is no such Security Outstanding;      (12) to secure the Securities; or   
  (13) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the
Securities of one or more series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to the requirements of
Section 7.11.      The Trustee is hereby authorized to join with the Company in the execution of any such supplemental
indenture, and to make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations that may be therein contained, but the Trustee shall not be obligated to enter into any such supplemental indenture that affects the Trustee s own rights, duties or
immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.      Any supplemental indenture authorized by the provisions of this Section may be
executed by the Company and the Trustee without the consent of the holders of any of the Securities at the time Outstanding, notwithstanding any of the provisions of Section 9.02.   
  SECTION 9.02 Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Securityholders.   
  With the consent (evidenced as provided in Section 8.01) of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of
the Securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture or indentures at the time Outstanding, the Company, when authorized by Board Resolutions, and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into an indenture or
indentures supplemental hereto (which shall conform to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect) for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of
any supplemental indenture or of modifying in any manner not covered by Section 9.01 the rights of the holders of the Securities of such series under this Indenture; provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the
consent of the holders of each Security then Outstanding and affected thereby, (i) extend the fixed maturity of any Securities of any series, or reduce the principal amount thereof, or reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest
thereon, or reduce any premium payable upon the redemption thereof; (ii) reduce the amount of principal of an Original Issue Discount Security or any other Security payable upon acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to
Section 6.01(b); (iii) change the currency in which any Security or any premium or interest is payable; (iv) impair the right to enforce any payment on or with respect to any Security; (v) adversely change the right to convert or
exchange, including decreasing the conversion rate or increasing the conversion price of, such Security (if applicable); (vi) reduce the percentage in principal amount of outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of whose holders is
required for modification or amendment of this Indenture or for waiver of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or for waiver of certain defaults; (vii) reduce the requirements contained in this Indenture for quorum or voting; or
(viii) modify any of the above provisions; provided, further, that if the Securities of such series are held by a MetLife Trust or a trustee of such Trust, such supplemental indenture shall not be effective until the holders of not less than a
majority in liquidation preference of Trust Securities of the applicable MetLife Trust shall have consented to such supplemental indenture; and, provided, further, that if the consent of the holder of each outstanding Security is required, such
supplemental indenture shall not be effective until each holder of the Trust Securities of the applicable MetLife Trust shall have consented to such supplemental indenture.      It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Securityholders of any series affected thereby under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be
sufficient if such consent shall approve the substance thereof.   
         32   

SECTION 9.03 Effect of Supplemental Indentures.   
  Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Article or of Article X, this Indenture shall, with
respect to such series, be and be deemed to be modified and amended in accordance therewith and the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities under this Indenture of the Trustee, the Company and the holders of
Securities of the series affected thereby shall thereafter be determined, exercised and enforced hereunder subject in all respects to such modifications and amendments, and all the terms and conditions of any such supplemental indenture shall be and
be deemed to be part of the terms and conditions of this Indenture for any and all purposes.      SECTION 9.04 Securities Affected
by Supplemental Indentures.      Securities of any series, affected by a supplemental indenture, authenticated and delivered after
the execution of such supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Article or of Article X, may bear a notation in form approved by the Company, provided such form meets the requirements of any exchange upon which such series may be
listed, as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities of that series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Board of Directors of the Company, to any modification of this
Indenture contained in any such supplemental indenture may be prepared by the Company, authenticated by the Trustee and delivered in exchange for the Securities of that series then Outstanding.   
  SECTION 9.05 Execution of Supplemental Indentures.      Upon the request of the Company, accompanied by its Board Resolutions authorizing the execution of any such supplemental indenture, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence of the consent of
Securityholders required to consent thereto as aforesaid, the Trustee shall join with the Company in the execution of such supplemental indenture unless such supplemental indenture affects the Trustee s own rights, duties or immunities under
this Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may, in its discretion, but shall not be obligated to, enter into such supplemental indenture. The Trustee, subject to the provisions of Section 7.01, may receive an Opinion of Counsel as
conclusive evidence that any supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article is authorized or permitted by, and conforms to, the terms of this Article and that it is proper for the Trustee under the provisions of this Article to join in the
execution thereof; provided, however, that such Opinion of Counsel need not be provided in connection with the execution of a supplemental indenture that establishes the terms of a series of Securities pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof.
     Promptly after the execution by the Company and the Trustee of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this
Section, the Trustee shall transmit by mail, first class postage prepaid, a notice, setting forth in general terms the substance of such supplemental indenture, to the Securityholders of all series affected thereby as their names and addresses
appear upon the Security Register. Any failure of the Trustee to mail such notice, or any defect therein, shall not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such supplemental indenture.   
  ARTICLE X   
  CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, CONVEYANCE, TRANSFER OR LEASE      SECTION 10.01 When the Company May Consolidate, Merge, Etc.      The Company may not
(a) merge with or into or consolidate with, or (b) sell, assign, transfer, lease or convey all or substantially all of its properties and assets to, any Person other than, with respect to this clause (b), a direct or indirect wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company, and no Person shall (x) merge with or into or consolidate with the Company, or (y) except for any direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, sell, assign, transfer, lease or convey all or
substantially all of its properties and assets to the Company, unless:      (a) the Company is the surviving corporation or the
Person formed by or surviving such merger or consolidation or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, lease or conveyance shall have been made (the  Successor ), if other than the Company, shall expressly assume by an indenture
supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, all the obligations of the Company under the Securities, this Indenture, the Common Securities Guarantee and the Preferred Securities Guarantee;
  
         33   

(b) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no default or Event of Default
shall have occurred and be continuing;      (c) if at the time any Preferred Securities are outstanding, such transaction is not
prohibited under the Declaration and the Preferred Securities Guarantee; and      (d) the Company delivers to the Trustee an
Officers  Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such supplemental indenture comply with this Indenture.   
  The Successor will be the successor to the Company, and will be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power and become the
obligor on the Securities with the same effect as if the Successor had been named as the Company herein but, in the case of a sale, assignment, transfer, lease or conveyance of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company,
the predecessor Company will not be released from its obligations to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Securities.      ARTICLE XI      SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE   
  SECTION 11.01 Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture.      If at any time: (a) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee for cancellation all Securities of a series theretofore authenticated (other than any Securities that shall have been destroyed,
lost or stolen and that shall have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 2.07) and Securities for whose payment money or Governmental Obligations have theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company
(and thereupon repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 11.05); or (b) all such Securities of a particular series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation shall have become due and
payable, or are by their terms to become due and payable within one year or are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption, and the Company shall deposit or cause
to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds the entire amount in moneys or Governmental Obligations sufficient or a combination thereof, sufficient in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a
written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay at maturity or upon redemption all Securities of that series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, including principal, and premium, if any, and interest due or to
become due to such date of maturity or date fixed for redemption, as the case may be, and if the Company shall also pay or cause to be paid all other sums payable hereunder with respect to such series by the Company then this Indenture shall
thereupon cease to be of further effect with respect to such series except for the provisions of Sections 2.03, 2.05, 2.07, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03 and 7.10, that shall survive until the date of maturity or redemption date, as the case may be, and Sections
7.06 and 11.05, that shall survive to such date and thereafter, and the Trustee, on demand of the Company and at the cost and expense of the Company shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction of and discharging this Indenture with
respect to such series.      SECTION 11.02 Discharge of Obligations.   
  If at any time all such Securities of a particular series not heretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation or that have not become
due and payable as described in Section 11.01 shall have been paid by the Company by depositing irrevocably with the Trustee as trust funds money in U.S. dollars sufficient or an amount of non-callable Governmental Obligations, the principal of
and interest on which when due, will be sufficient or a combination thereof, sufficient in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay at
maturity or upon redemption all such Securities of that series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, including principal, and premium, if any, and interest due or to become due to such date of maturity or date fixed for
redemption, as the case may be, and if the Company shall also pay or cause to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company with respect to such series, then after the date such moneys or Governmental Obligations, as the case may be, are
deposited with the Trustee the obligations of the Company under this Indenture with respect to such series shall cease to be of further effect except for the provisions of Sections 2.03, 2.05, 2.07, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 7.06, 7.10 and 11.05 hereof that
shall survive until such Securities shall mature and be paid. Thereafter, Sections 7.06 and 11.05 shall survive.   
         34   

SECTION 11.03 Deposited Moneys to be Held in Trust.   
  All moneys or Governmental Obligations deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Sections 11.01 or 11.02 shall be held in trust and shall be
available for payment as due, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent), to the holders of the particular series of Securities for the payment or redemption of which such moneys or
Governmental Obligations have been deposited with the Trustee.      SECTION 11.04 Payment of Moneys Held by Paying Agents.
     In connection with the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture all moneys or Governmental Obligations then held by any
Paying Agent under the provisions of this Indenture shall, upon demand of the Company, be paid to the Trustee and thereupon such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such moneys or Governmental Obligations.
     SECTION 11.05 Repayment to Company.      Any moneys or Governmental Obligations deposited with any Paying Agent or the Trustee, or then held by the Company, in trust for payment of principal of or premium or interest on the Securities of a
particular series that are not applied but remain unclaimed by the holders of such Securities for at least two years after the date upon which the principal of, and premium, if any, or interest on such Securities shall have respectively become due
and payable, shall be repaid to the Company on May 31 of each year or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and thereupon the Paying Agent and the Trustee shall be released from all further liability with respect to
such moneys or Governmental Obligations, and the holder of any of the Securities entitled to receive such payment shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for the payment thereof.   
  ARTICLE XII   
  IMMUNITY OF INCORPORATORS, STOCKHOLDERS, OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS      SECTION 12.01 No Recourse.      No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or
agreement of this Indenture, or of any Security, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect thereof, shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, past, present or future as such, of the Company or of any
predecessor or successor corporation, either directly or through the Company or any such predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or
otherwise; it being expressly understood that this Indenture and the obligations issued hereunder are solely corporate obligations, and that no such personal liability whatever shall attach to, or is or shall be incurred by, the incorporators,
stockholders, officers or directors as such, of the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, or any of them, because of the creation of the indebtedness hereby authorized, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or
agreements contained in this Indenture or in any of the Securities or implied therefrom; and that any and all such personal liability of every name and nature, either at common law or in equity or by constitution or statute, of, and any and all such
rights and claims against, every such incorporator, stockholder, officer or director as such, because of the creation of the indebtedness hereby authorized, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in this
Indenture or in any of the Securities or implied therefrom, are hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as a consideration for, the execution of this Indenture and the issuance of such Securities.   
         35   

ARTICLE XIII      DEFEASANCE AND COVENANT DEFEASANCE      SECTION 13.01 Company s Option to Effect
Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.      The Company may elect, at its option at any time, to have Section 13.02 or
Section 13.03 applied to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, designated pursuant to Section 2.01 as being defeasible pursuant to such Sections 13.02 or 13.03, in accordance with any applicable requirements
provided pursuant to Section 2.01 and upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this Article. Any such election shall be evidenced by a Board Resolution or in another manner specified as contemplated by Section 2.01 for such
Securities.      SECTION 13.02 Defeasance and Discharge.      Upon the Company s exercise of its option (if any) to have this Section applied to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, the Company shall be deemed to have been discharged
from its obligations with respect to such Securities as provided in this Section on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 13.04 are satisfied (hereinafter called  Defeasance ). For this purpose, such Defeasance means
that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by such Securities and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such Securities and this Indenture insofar as such Securities are concerned
(and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), subject to the following which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (1) the rights of holders of such
Securities to receive, solely from the trust fund described in Section 13.04 and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of and any premium and interest on such Securities when payments are due,
(2) the Company s obligations with respect to such Securities under Sections 2.05, 2.06, 2.07, 4.01, 4.02 and 4.03, (3) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and (4) this Article. Subject to
compliance with this Article, the Company may exercise its option (if any) to have this Section applied to any Securities notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option (if any) to have Section 13.03 applied to such Securities.   
  SECTION 13.03 Covenant Defeasance.      Upon the Company s exercise of its option (if any) to have this Section applied to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, (1) the Company shall be released from its
obligations under Article X, Sections 4.06 through 4.08, inclusive, and any covenants provided pursuant to Sections 2.01(16), 9.01(4) or 9.01(7) for the benefit of the holders of such Securities and (2) the occurrence of any event specified in
Sections 6.01(3) (with respect to any of Article X, Sections 4.06 through 4.08, inclusive, and any such covenants provided pursuant to Sections 2.01(16), 9.01(4) or 9.01(7)), 6.01(a)(7) and 6.01(a)(8) shall be deemed not to be or result in an Event
of Default, in each case with respect to such Securities as provided in this Section on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 13.04 are satisfied (hereinafter called  Covenant Defeasance ). For this purpose, such
Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to such Securities, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such specified Section (to the extent so specified in
the case of Section 6.01(3)), whether directly or indirectly by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such Section or by reason of any reference in any such Section to any other provision herein or in any other document, but the
remainder of this Indenture and such Securities shall be unaffected thereby.      SECTION 13.04 Conditions to Defeasance or
Covenant Defeasance.      The following shall be the conditions to the application of Section 13.02 or Section 13.03 to
any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be:      (1) The Company shall irrevocably have
deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee (or another trustee which satisfies the requirements contemplated by Section 7.09 and agrees to comply with the provisions of this Article applicable to it) as trust funds in trust for the
purpose of making the following payments, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefits of the holders of such Securities, (A) money in an amount, or (B) Government Obligations which through the scheduled
payment of principal and interest in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than one day before the due date of any payment, money in an   
         36   

amount, or (C) a combination thereof, in each case sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof
delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge, and which shall be applied by the Trustee (or any such other qualifying trustee) to pay and discharge, the principal of and any premium and interest on such Securities on the respective Stated
Maturities, in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and such Securities.      (2) In the event of an
election to have Section 13.02 apply to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that (A) the Company has received from, or there has been
published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling or (B) since the date of this Indenture, there has been a change in the applicable federal income tax law, in either case (A) or (B) to the effect that, and based thereon such
opinion shall confirm that, the holders of such Securities will not recognize gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit, Defeasance and discharge to be effected with respect to such Securities and will be subject to
federal income tax on the same amount, in the same manner and at the same times as would be the case if such deposit, Defeasance and discharge were not to occur.   
  (3) In the event of an election to have Section 13.03 apply to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the
case may be, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the holders of such Securities will not recognize gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit and Covenant Defeasance
to be effected with respect to such Securities and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amount, in the same manner and at the same times as would be the case if such deposit and Covenant Defeasance were not to occur.   
  (4) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers  Certificate to the effect that it has been informed
by the relevant securities exchange(s) that neither such Securities nor any other Securities of the same series, if then listed on any securities exchange, will be delisted as a result of such deposit.   
  (5) No event which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default with respect to such
Securities or any other Securities shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such deposit or, with regard to any such event specified in Sections 6.01(a)(5) and 6.01(a)(6), at any time on or prior to the 90th day after the date of such
deposit (it being understood that this condition shall not be deemed satisfied until after such 90th day).      (6)
Such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any indenture or other agreement or instrument for borrowed money, pursuant to which in excess of $100,000,000 principal amount is
then outstanding, to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound.      (7) Such Defeasance or Covenant
Defeasance shall not result in the trust arising from such deposit constituting an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act unless such trust shall be registered under such Act or exempt from registration thereunder.
     (8) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers  Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel,
each stating that all conditions precedent with respect to such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance have been complied with.   
  SECTION 13.05 Deposited Money and Government Obligations to Be Held in Trust; Miscellaneous Provisions.   
  Subject to the provisions of Section 4.03(d), all money and Government Obligations (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with
the Trustee or other qualifying trustee (solely for purposes of this Section and Section 13.06, the Trustee and any such other trustee are referred to collectively as the  Trustee ) pursuant to Section 13.04 in respect of any
Securities shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any such Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying
Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the holders of such Securities, of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal and any premium and interest, but money so held in trust need not be segregated from other funds except to the
extent required by law.   
         37   

The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed
on or assessed against the Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Section 13.04 or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the holders of
Outstanding Securities.      Anything in this Article to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the
Company from time to time upon request of the Company any money or Government Obligations held by it as provided in Section 13.04 with respect to any Securities which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public
accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then be required to be deposited to effect the Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance, as the case may be, with respect to
such Securities.      SECTION 13.06 Reinstatement.      If the Trustee or the Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with this Article with respect to any Securities by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority
enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the obligations under this Indenture and such Securities from which the Company has been discharged or released pursuant to Sections 13.02 or 13.03 shall be revived and
reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to this Article with respect to such Securities, until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all money held in trust pursuant to Section 13.05 with respect to such
Securities in accordance with this Article; provided, however, that if the Company makes any payment of principal of or any premium or interest on any such Security following such reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to
the rights (if any) of the holders of such Securities to receive such payment from the money so held in trust.      ARTICLE XIV
     MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS      SECTION 14.01 Effect on Successors and Assigns.      All the covenants, stipulations,
promises and agreements in this Indenture contained by or on behalf of the Company shall bind their respective successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.      SECTION 14.02 Actions by Successor.      Any act or proceeding by any provision of
this Indenture authorized or required to be done or performed by any board, committee or officer of the Company shall and may be done and performed with like force and effect by the corresponding board, committee or officer of any corporation that
shall at the time be the lawful sole successor of the Company.      SECTION 14.03 Surrender of Company Powers.   
  The Company by instrument in writing executed by authority of 2/3 (two-thirds) of its Board of Directors and delivered to the Trustee may
surrender any of the powers reserved to the Company, and thereupon such power so surrendered shall terminate both as to the Company and as to any successor corporation.      SECTION 14.04 Notices.      Except as otherwise expressly provided herein any notice
or demand that by any provision of this Indenture is required or permitted to be given or served by the Trustee or by the holders of Securities to or on the Company may be given or served by being deposited first class postage prepaid in a
post-office letterbox addressed (until another address is filed in writing by the Company with the Trustee), as follows: MetLife, Inc., One Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10010-10036, Attention: Treasurer, with copies of any notice of an Event
of Default to the attention of the General Counsel at the same address. Any notice, election, request or demand by the Company or any Securityholder to or upon the Trustee shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or made, for all purposes, if
given or made in writing at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee.   
         38   

SECTION 14.05 Governing Law.   
  This Indenture and each Security shall be deemed to be a contract made under the internal laws of the State of New York, and for all
purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of said State.      SECTION 14.06 Treatment of Securities as Debt.
     It is intended that the Securities will be treated as indebtedness and not as equity for federal income tax purposes. The
provisions of this Indenture shall be interpreted to further this intention.      SECTION 14.07 Compliance Certificates and
Opinions.      (a) Upon any application or demand by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any of the provisions of
this Indenture, the Company, shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers  Certificate stating that all conditions precedent provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating
that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or demand as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically required by any provision of this
Indenture relating to such particular application or demand, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished.      (b) Each
certificate or opinion provided for in this Indenture and delivered to the Trustee with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant in this Indenture shall include (1) a statement that the Person making such certificate or opinion has
read such covenant or condition; (2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based; (3) a statement that, in the
opinion of such Person, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (4) a statement as to whether or not,
in the opinion of such Person, such condition or covenant has been complied with.      SECTION 14.08 Payments on Business Days.
     Except as provided pursuant to Section 2.01 pursuant to a Board Resolution, and as set forth in an Officers 
Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental to this Indenture, in any case where the date of maturity of interest or principal of any Security or the date of redemption of any Security shall not be a Business Day, then payment
of interest or principal, and premium, if any, may be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the nominal date of maturity or redemption, and no interest shall accrue for the period after such nominal
date.      SECTION 14.09 Conflict with Trust Indenture Act.   
  If and to the extent that any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by Sections 310 to 317,
inclusive, of the Trust Indenture Act, such imposed duties shall control.      SECTION 14.10 Counterparts.   
  This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together
constitute but one and the same instrument.      SECTION 14.11 Separability.   
  In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Indenture or in the Securities of any series shall for any reason be held to
be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions of this Indenture or of such Securities, but this Indenture and such Securities shall be construed as if such
invalid or illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein or therein.   
         39   

SECTION 14.12 Assignment.   
  The Company will have the right at all times to assign any of its rights or obligations under this Indenture to a direct or indirect
wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, provided that, in the event of any such assignment, the Company, will remain liable for all such obligations. Subject to the foregoing, the Indenture is binding upon and inures to the benefit of the parties
thereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Indenture may not otherwise be assigned by the parties thereto.   
  SECTION 14.13 Acknowledgment of Rights.      The Company acknowledges that, with respect to any Securities held by a MetLife Trust or a trustee of such Trust, if the Property Trustee of such Trust fails to enforce its rights under this Indenture as
the holder of the series of Securities held as the assets of such MetLife Trust, any holder of Preferred Securities may institute legal proceedings directly against the Company to enforce such Property Trustee s rights under this Indenture
without first instituting any legal proceedings against such Property Trustee or any other person or entity. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and such event is attributable to the failure of the
Company to pay interest or principal on the applicable series of Securities on the date such interest or principal is otherwise payable (or in the case of redemption, on the redemption date), the Company acknowledges that a holder of Preferred
Securities may directly institute a proceeding for enforcement of payment to such holder of the principal of or interest on the applicable series of Securities having a principal amount equal to the aggregate liquidation amount of the Preferred
Securities of such holder as determined after the respective due date specified in the applicable series of Securities.      This
instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original. But all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.   
         40   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed, and
their respective corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and attested, all as of the day and year first above written.        

METLIFE, INC.   

By:  
     
  /s/ Anthony J. Williamson   

Name: Anthony J. Williamson  
  Title: Senior Vice-President and Treasurer    

Attest:   

/s/ Tracey A. Dedrick   
 
    Name: Tracey A. Dedrick  
  Title: Vice President    

BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,     as Trustee    

By:  
     
  /s/ Steve M. Husbands   

Name: Steve M. Husbands  
  Title: Vice President    

Attest:   

/s/ Illegible   
 
    Name: Illegible     Title:
Trust Officer    
 
         41   

</EX-4.1(A)>

<EX-4.45>
 9
 d302570dex445.htm
 THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE

Third Supplemental Indenture 

Exhibit 4.45      EXECUTION COPY           
      THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
     DATED AS OF DECEMBER 21, 2006      BETWEEN      METLIFE, INC.,   
  AS ISSUER      AND
     THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,      AS TRUSTEE           

TABLE OF CONTENTS   

Page     

ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS   

Section 1.1   
      
    Definition of Terms   
      
  1   

ARTICLE 2 GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES   

Section 2.1   
      
  Designation and Principal Amount  
      
  15   
 
    Section 2.2   
      
  Final Maturity  
      
  15   
 
    Section 2.3   
      
  Form and Payment  
      
  15   
 
    Section 2.4   
      
  Interest  
      
  16   

ARTICLE 3 REDEMPTION OF THE JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES/SCHEDULED REDEMPTION   

Section 3.1   
      
  Optional Redemption  
      
  17   
 
    Section 3.2   
      
  Scheduled Redemption  
      
  18   
 
    Section 3.3   
      
  Redemption Procedure for Junior Subordinated Debentures  
      
  20   
 
    Section 3.4   
      
  Payment of Securities Called for Redemption  
      
  21   
 
    Section 3.5   
      
  No Sinking Fund  
      
  21   

ARTICLE 4 OPTIONAL DEFERRAL OF INTEREST AND TRIGGER EVENTS   

Section 4.1   
      
  Optional Deferral of Interest  
      
  21   
 
    Section 4.2   
      
  Notices of Deferral and Trigger Period  
      
  22   
 
    Section 4.3   
      
  Trigger Events  
      
  22   

ARTICLE 5 EVENTS OF DEFAULT   

Section 5.1   
      
  Events of Default  
      
  23   

ARTICLE 6 COVENANTS   

Section 6.1   
      
  Certain Restrictions During Optional Deferral Periods or Following a Trigger Event  
      
  25   
 
    Section 6.2   
      
  Obligation to Effect Certain Sales of Common Stock of the Company; Alternative Payment Mechanism  
      
  27   
 
    Section 6.3   
      
  Payment of Expenses  
      
  29   
 
    Section 6.4   
      
  Payment Upon Resignation or Removal  
      
  30   

ARTICLE 7 SUBORDINATION   

Section 7.1   
      
  Agreement to Subordinate  
      
  30   
 
    Section 7.2   
      
  Liquidation; Dissolution; Bankruptcy  
      
  30   
 
         i   

Section 7.3   
      
  Default on Senior Indebtedness  
      
  31   
 
    Section 7.4   
      
  When Distribution Must Be Paid Over  
      
  31   
 
    Section 7.5   
      
  Subrogation  
      
  31   
 
    Section 7.6   
      
  Relative Rights  
      
  32   
 
    Section 7.7   
      
  Rights of the Trustee; Holders of Senior Indebtedness  
      
  32   
 
    Section 7.8   
      
  Subordination May Not Be Impaired  
      
  32   
 
    Section 7.9   
      
  Distribution  
      
  32   
 
    Section 7.10   
      
  Authorization to Effect Subordination  
      
  33   

ARTICLE 8 NOTICE   

Section 8.1   
      
  Notice by the Company  
      
  33   

ARTICLE 9 FORM OF JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURE   

Section 9.1   
      
  Form of Junior Subordinated Debenture  
      
  33   

ARTICLE 10 ORIGINAL ISSUE OF JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES   

Section 10.1   
      
  Original Issue of Junior Subordinated Debentures  
      
  45   

ARTICLE 11 LIMITATION ON CLAIMS   

Section 11.1   
      
  Limitation on Claim for Deferred Interest Due to a Trigger Event in Bankruptcy  
      
  45   

ARTICLE 12 Discharge, Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance   

ARTICLE 13 MISCELLANEOUS   

Section 13.1   
      
  Ratification of Base Indenture; Conflicts  
      
  46   
 
    Section 13.2   
      
  Junior Subordinated Debentures Unaffected by Other Supplemental Indentures  
      
  46   
 
    Section 13.3   
      
  Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals  
      
  46   
 
    Section 13.4   
      
  Tax Treatment  
      
  46   
 
    Section 13.5   
      
  Governing Law  
      
  46   
 
    Section 13.6   
      
  Separability  
      
  47   
 
    Section 13.7   
      
  Counterparts  
      
  47   
 
    Section 13.8   
      
  Calculation Agent and Premium Calculation Agent  
      
  47   
 
         ii   

THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of December 21, 2006 (this  Third
Supplemental Indenture ), between MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the  Trustee ), supplementing the Subordinated Indenture, dated as of
June 21, 2005 (the  Base Indenture ), between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association), as trustee.   
  RECITALS   
  WHEREAS, the Company executed and delivered the Base Indenture to the Trustee to provide for the future issuance of the Company s
unsecured subordinated debentures, notes or other evidence of indebtedness (the  Securities ), to be issued from time to time in one or more series as might be determined by the Company under the Base Indenture;   
  WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of the Base Indenture and this Third Supplemental Indenture (together, the  Indenture ), the
Company desires to provide for the establishment of a new series of its Securities to be known as its 6.40% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2066 (the  Junior Subordinated Debentures ), the form and substance of
such Junior Subordinated Debentures and the terms, provisions and conditions thereof to be set forth herein as provided in the Indenture;      WHEREAS, the Company has requested that the Trustee execute and deliver this Third Supplemental Indenture; and      WHEREAS, all requirements necessary to make this Third Supplemental Indenture a valid instrument in accordance with its terms, and to make the Junior Subordinated Debentures, when executed by the Company
and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, the valid obligations of the Company, have been done and performed, and the execution and delivery of this Third Supplemental Indenture have been duly authorized in all respects.   
  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the purchase and acceptance of the Junior Subordinated Debentures by the holders thereof, and for the
purpose of setting forth, as provided in the Indenture, the form and substance of the Junior Subordinated Debentures and the terms, provisions and conditions thereof, the Company covenants and agrees with the Trustee as follows:   
  ARTICLE 1   
  DEFINITIONS      SECTION 1.1
DEFINITION OF TERMS.      Unless the context otherwise requires or unless otherwise set forth herein:   
  (a) a term not defined herein that is defined in the Base Indenture, as previously supplemented, has the same meaning when used in this
Third Supplemental Indenture;   

(b) the definition of any term in this Third Supplemental Indenture that is also defined in
the Base Indenture, as previously supplemented, shall for the purposes of this Third Supplemental Indenture supersede the definition of such term in the Base Indenture, as previously supplemented;   
  (c) a term defined anywhere in this Third Supplemental Indenture has the same meaning throughout;   
  (d) the definition of a term in this Third Supplemental Indenture is not intended to have any effect on the meaning or definition of an
identical term that is defined in the Base Indenture, as previously supplemented, insofar as the use or effect of such term in the Base Indenture, as previously defined, is concerned;   
  (e) the singular includes the plural and vice versa;      (f) headings are for convenience of reference only and do not affect interpretation; and      (g) the following terms have the meanings given to them in this Section 1.1(g):       Acceleration Date  has the meaning provided in Section 4.1 hereof.   
   Adjusted Stockholders  Equity Amount  means, as of any quarter end and subject to certain adjustments, the
stockholders  equity of the Company as reflected on the Company s consolidated GAAP balance sheet as of such quarter end, minus accumulated other comprehensive income as reflected on such consolidated balance sheet.   
   Alternative Payment Mechanism  has the meaning provided in Section 6.2(a) hereof.   
   Annual Statement  means, as to a U.S. Life Insurance Subsidiary, the annual statement of such U.S. Life Insurance Subsidiary
containing its statutory balance sheet and income statement as required to be filed by it with one or more state insurance commissioners or other state insurance regulatory authorities.   
   Base Indenture  has the meaning provided in the preamble hereto.   
   Benchmark Quarter  means, with respect to any completed fiscal quarter, the fiscal quarter that is 10 fiscal quarters prior to
such completed fiscal quarter.       Business Day  means any day which is not (i) a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal
holiday, and (ii) a day on which banking institutions or trust companies located in New York City are authorized or obligated by law to close, and, on or after December 15, 2036, a day which is not a London Banking Day.   
   Calculation Agent  means The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., or any other firm appointed by the Company, acting as
Calculation Agent.   
         2   

Commercially Reasonable Efforts  means commercially reasonable efforts on the
part of the Company to complete the offer and sale of shares of the Company s Common Stock to third parties that are not Subsidiaries of the Company in public offerings or private placements, provided that the Company shall be deemed to have
made such Commercially Reasonable Efforts during a Market Disruption Event or for so long as the Company is prevented from selling its Common Stock in accordance with the Alternative Payment Mechanism because it does not have Shares Available for
Issuance, regardless of whether the Company makes any offers or sales during such Market Disruption Event. The Company will not be considered to have made such Commercially Reasonable Efforts to effect a sale of Common Stock if it determines to not
pursue or complete such sale due to pricing, dividend rate or dilution considerations.       Common Stock  means shares
of common stock of the Company, including treasury shares and shares sold pursuant to the Company s dividend reinvestment plans and employee benefit plans.       Company  shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.   
   Company Action Level  has the meaning specified in the definition of the term Risk-Based Capital Ratio.   
   Comparable Treasury Issue  means the U.S. Treasury security selected by the Premium Calculation Agent as having a maturity
comparable to the term remaining from the early Redemption Date to December 15, 2031 (the  Remaining Life ) that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of
corporate debt securities of comparable term.       Comparable Treasury Price  means, with respect to an early
Redemption Date (1) the average of five Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest reference treasury dealer quotations, or (2) if the Premium Calculation Agent obtains fewer than
five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.       Compounded Interest  means
additional interest on any accrued and unpaid interest to the extent permitted by applicable law at the then applicable interest rate on the Junior Subordinated Debentures.       Covered Insurance Subsidiaries  means the Company s largest U.S. Life Insurance Subsidiaries (in terms of general admitted assets) that collectively account for 80% or more of the General
Account Admitted Assets of all of the Company s U.S. Life Insurance Subsidiaries.       Current Market Price  with
respect to the Common Stock on any date means the closing sale price per share (or if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask
prices) on that date as reported in composite transactions by the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported by the principal U.S. securities exchange on which the Common Stock is
traded or quoted. If the   
         3   

Common Stock is not either listed or quoted on any U.S. securities exchange on the relevant date, the Current Market Price will be the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the
over-the-counter market on the relevant date as reported by the National Quotation Bureau or similar organization. If the Common Stock is not so quoted, the Current Market Price will be the average of the mid-point of the last bid and ask prices for
the Common Stock on the relevant date from each of at least three nationally recognized independent investment banking firms selected by the Company for this purpose.       Depositary,  with respect to the Junior Subordinated Debentures, means The Depository Trust Company or any successor clearing agency.   
   Event of Default  has the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 5.1 hereof.   
   Fifth Deferral Anniversary  has the meaning provided in Section 6.2(a) hereof.   
   Final Maturity Date  has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2 hereof.   
   Fixed Rate Period  has the meaning provided in Section 2.4 (a) hereof.   
   Floating Rate Period  has the meaning provided in Section 2.4 (b) hereof.   
   Foregone Interest  has the meaning provided in Section 11.1 hereof.   
   GAAP  means, at any date or for any period, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles as in effect on such date or for
such period.       General Account Admitted Assets  means, as to a U.S. Life Insurance Subsidiary as of any year end,
the total admitted assets of such U.S. Life Insurance Subsidiary as reflected on the balance sheet included in its statutory financial statements as of such year end minus the separate account assets reflected on such balance sheet.   
   Indenture  has the meaning set forth in the recitals hereto.   
   Interest Payment Date  means, during the Fixed Rate Period, each of June 15 and December 15, commencing
June 15, 2007 and during the Floating Rate Period, each of March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15, commencing December 15, 2036; provided that, if any such day is not a Business Day, then,   
  with respect to an Interest Payment Date during the Fixed Rate Period, the Interest Payment Date shall be the immediately succeeding Business Day, and
with respect to an Interest Payment Date during the Floating Rate Period, the Interest Payment Date shall be the immediately succeeding Business Day unless such date falls in the next calendar month, in which case the Interest Payment Date will be
the immediately preceding Business Day, except that if any of the Interest Payment Dates during the Floating Rate Period falls on a date fixed for redemption or repayment and such day is not a Business Day, the interest payment due on that date will
be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day without any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay in connection with such redemption or repayment.   
         4   

Interest Payment Period  means the period from and including an Interest Payment
Date to but not including the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, except for the first Interest Payment Period which shall be the period from and including the date of initial issuance of the Junior Subordinated Debentures (subject to
Section 2.1(b) hereof) to but not including June 15, 2007.       Junior Subordinated Debentures  has the
meaning set forth in the recitals hereto.  LIBOR Determination Date  means the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of the relevant Interest Payment Period.   
   London Banking Day  means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business (including dealings in deposits in
U.S. dollars) in London, England.       Make-Whole Redemption Amount  means the sum, as calculated by the Premium
Calculation Agent, of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal (discounted from December 15, 2031) and interest that would have been payable to and including December 15, 2031 (discounted from their respective
Interest Payment Dates) on the Junior Subordinated Debentures to be redeemed (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of
twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 35 basis points; plus accrued and unpaid interest, together with any Compounded Interest, on the principal amount of the Junior Subordinated Debentures being redeemed to the Redemption Date.
      Market Disruption Event  means the occurrence or existence of any of the following events or sets of
circumstances:       

(i)  
  trading in securities generally on any national securities exchange or over-the-counter market, on which the Common Stock is then listed or traded (as of the date of
this Third Supplemental Indenture, the New York Stock Exchange), is suspended or the settlement of such trading generally is materially disrupted or minimum prices are established on any such exchange or such market by the SEC, by such exchange or
by any other regulatory body or governmental authority having jurisdiction, and the establishment of such minimum prices materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, and the issuance and sale of, the Common Stock;

(ii)  
  if the Company were required to obtain the consent or approval of its stockholders, a regulatory body or governmental authority to issue or sell Common Stock pursuant
to the Alternative Payment Mechanism or to issue or sell Qualifying Capital Securities pursuant to the Replacement Capital Obligation and, after using its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain such consent or approval, it fails to obtain that
consent or approval;         

(iii)  
  a material disruption or banking moratorium occurs or has been declared in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States;
    
         5   

(iv)  
  there shall have occurred such a material adverse change in general domestic or international economic, political or financial conditions, including without limitation
as a result of terrorist activities, or the effect of international conditions on the financial markets in the United States is such, as to make it, in the Company s judgment, impracticable to proceed with the issuance and sale of Common Stock
pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism or the issuance and sale of Qualifying Capital Securities pursuant to the Replacement Capital Obligation;         

(v)  
  an event occurs and is continuing as a result of which the offering document for the offer and sale of Common Stock pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism or the
offer and sale of Qualifying Capital Securities pursuant to the Replacement Capital Obligation would, in the Company s reasonable judgment, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated
therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and either (1) the disclosure of that event at such time, in the Company s judgment, would have a material adverse effect on its business, or (2) the disclosure
relates to a previously undisclosed proposed or pending material business transaction, and the Company has a bona fide reason for keeping the same confidential or its disclosure would impede the Company s ability to consummate such transaction;
provided that no single suspension period contemplated by this clause (v) may exceed 90 consecutive days and multiple suspension periods contemplated by this clause (v) may not exceed an aggregate of 180 days in any 360-day period; or

(vi)  
  the Company reasonably believes that the offering document for the offer and the sale of the Common Stock pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism or the offer and
sale of Qualifying Capital Securities pursuant to the Replacement Capital Obligation would not be in compliance with a rule or regulation of the SEC (for reasons other than those referred to in clause (v)) and the Company is unable to comply with
such rule or regulation or such compliance is impracticable; provided that no single suspension period contemplated by this clause (vi) may exceed 90 consecutive days and multiple suspension periods contemplated by this clause (vi) may not
exceed an aggregate of 180 days in any 360-day period.         Maturity Date  means the Final Maturity Date
and any earlier date on which the Junior Subordinated Debentures become due and payable, whether pursuant to a notice of redemption, acceleration or otherwise and on which the principal shall be due and payable together with all accrued and unpaid
interest thereon, including Compounded Interest.       Model Act  means the NAIC Risk-Based Capital (RBC) for Insurers
Model Act as included in the NAIC s Model Laws, Regulations and Guidelines as of June 15, 2006 and as hereinafter amended, modified or supplemented.   
         6   

MoneyLine Telerate Page  means the display on Moneyline Telerate, Inc., or any
successor service, on Telerate Page 3750 or any replacement page or pages on that service.       Most Recently Completed
Quarter  means:       

(i)  
  as to an Interest Payment Date on March 31, the quarter ended on the preceding December 31;     

(ii)  
  as to an Interest Payment Date on June 30, the quarter ended on the preceding March 31;     

(iii)  
  as to an Interest Payment Date on September 30, the quarter ended on the preceding June 30; and     

(iv)  
  as to an Interest Payment Date on December 31, the quarter ended on the preceding September 30.     
   NAIC  means the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.   
   Notice Date  has the meaning provided in Section 3.2(d) hereof.   
   NRSRO  means a nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.       Optional Deferral  has the meaning provided in Section 4.1
hereof.       Optional Deferral Period  has the meaning provided in Section 4.1 hereof.   
   Optionally Deferred Interest  has the meaning provided in Section 4.1 hereof.   
   Other Covenant Default  has the meaning provided in Section 5.1(b) hereof.   
   Other Covenant Default Notice  has the meaning provided in Section 5.1(c) hereof.   
   Par Redemption Amount  means a cash redemption price of 100% of the principal amount of the Junior Subordinated Debentures to
be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, together with any Compounded Interest, on such Junior Subordinated Debentures to the date of redemption.       Parity Debt Securities  has the meaning provided in Section 6.1(b) hereof.       Parity Guarantees  has the meaning provided in Section 6.1(c) hereof.       Parity Securities  has the meaning provided in Section 6.1(c) hereof.       Premium Calculation Agent  means The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., or any other firm appointed by the Company or, if that firm is unwilling or unable to select the Comparable Treasury
Issue or calculate the Make-Whole Redemption Amount or Special Event Make-Whole Redemption Amount, an investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company.   
         7   

Primary Treasury Dealer  means a primary U.S. government securities dealer in New
York City.       QCS Commercially Reasonable Efforts  means commercially reasonable efforts on the part of the Company
to complete the offer and sale of Qualifying Capital Securities to third parties that are not Subsidiaries of the Company in public offerings or private placements, provided that the Company will be deemed to have made such QCS Commercially
Reasonable Efforts during a Market Disruption Event, regardless of whether the Company makes any offers or sales during such Market Disruption Event. The Company will not be considered to have made such QCS Commercially Reasonable Efforts to effect
a sale of Qualifying Capital Securities if it determines to not pursue or complete such sale due to pricing, coupon, dividend rate or dilution considerations.       QCS Proceeds Collection Period  means, with respect to any Required Repayment Date that is the Scheduled Redemption Date, the period commencing 180 days, and with respect to any subsequent
Required Repayment Date, the period commencing 90 days, prior thereto and ending on the Notice Date with respect thereto.   
   Qualifying APM Securities  means: (i) Common Stock; and (ii) Qualifying Warrants.   
   Qualifying Capital Securities  has the meaning given to it in the RCC.   
   Qualifying Warrants  means net share settled warrants to purchase Common Stock that the Company can sell at its sole
discretion and that have an exercise price greater than the Current Market Price of the Common Stock as of their date of issuance, that the Company is not entitled to redeem for cash and that the holders of which are not entitled to require the
Company to repurchase for cash in any circumstance.       Rating Agency Event  means a change by any NRSRO that rates
the Junior Subordinated Debentures, in the equity rating criteria for securities such as the Junior Subordinated Debentures as is in effect on the date of this Third Supplemental Indenture, which change results in lower equity credit being given to
the Junior Subordinated Debentures than the equity credit that would have been given to the Junior Subordinated Debentures in the absence of such change.       RBC  has the meaning provided herein in the definition of Risk Based Capital Ratio.       RCC  means the replacement capital covenant the Company has entered into for the benefit of holders of Covered Debt (as defined therein) on December 21, 2006, as amended or supplemented from
time to time, a copy of which shall be delivered by the Company to the Trustee on or before the date hereof.   
         8   

Reference Treasury Dealer  means (1) each of Goldman, Sachs   Co.,
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Merrill Lynch   Co. and their successors, provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer, and
(2) any other Primary Treasury Dealers selected by the Premium Calculation Agent after consultation with the Company.   
   Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations  means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any early Redemption Date, the
average, as determined by the Premium Calculation Agent, of the bid and ask prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Premium Calculation Agent at 5:00
     p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.   
   Registered Security  means any Security in the form established pursuant to Section 9.1 hereof which is registered as to
principal and interest in the Security Register.       Relevant Period  has the meaning set forth in the definition of
Three-Month LIBOR.       Remaining Life  has the meaning set forth in the definition of Comparable Treasury Issue.
      Replacement Capital Obligation  means the Company s obligations under Section 3.2.   
   Required Repayment Date  has the meaning provided in Section 3.2 (d) hereof.   
   Risk-Based Capital Ratio  means the ratio that insurance companies are required to calculate and report to their regulators as
of the end of each year in accordance with prescribed procedures. The ratio measures the relationship of the insurance companies   total adjusted capital  calculated in accordance with those prescribed procedures, relative to a
standard that is determined based on the magnitude of various risks present in the insurer s operations. For all Covered Insurance Subsidiaries, calculated on a combined basis, this ratio equals the sum of total adjusted capital amounts for
Covered Insurance Subsidiaries divided by the sum of Company Action Level amounts for those same subsidiaries. The NAIC s model risk-based capital, or  RBC,  law sets forth the RBC levels, ranging from the Company Action Level to the
mandatory control level, at which certain corrective actions are required and at which a state insurance regulator is authorized and expected to take regulatory action. The highest RBC level is known as the  Company Action Level.  If an
insurance company s Total Adjusted Capital is higher than the Company Action Level, no corrective action is required to be taken. At progressively lower levels of Total Adjusted Capital, an insurance company faces increasingly rigorous levels
of corrective action, including the submission of a comprehensive financial plan to the insurance regulator in its state of domicile, a mandatory examination or analysis of the insurer s business and operations by the regulator and the issuance
of appropriate corrective orders to address the insurance company s financial problems, and, at the lowest levels, either voluntary or mandatory action by the regulator to place the insurer under regulatory control. The Company Action Level
  
         9   

is twice the level (known as the  authorized control level ) below which the regulator is authorized (but not yet required) to place the insurance company under regulatory control.
      Scheduled Redemption Date  has the meaning set forth in Section 3.2(a).   
   SEC  means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.   
   Securities  has the meaning set forth in the recitals of this Third Supplemental Indenture.   
   Securities Act  means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.   
   Senior Indebtedness  means principal of, and interest and premium, if any, on, and any other amounts payable in respect of
(i) all indebtedness of the Company, whether outstanding on the date of the initial issuance of the Junior Subordinated Debentures or thereafter created, incurred or assumed, which is for money borrowed (including, without limitation, trust
preferred securities of statutory trusts and related subordinated debentures and guarantees of the Company issued under the Base Indenture), or which is evidenced by a note or similar instrument given in connection with the acquisition of any
business, properties or assets, including securities; (ii) all obligations of the Company under leases required or permitted to be capitalized under GAAP; (iii) any indebtedness referred to in clause (i) of other Persons for the
payment of which the Company is responsible or liable as guarantor or otherwise; and (iv) amendments, modifications, renewals, extensions, deferrals and refundings of any of the above types of indebtedness; provided, however, that Senior
Indebtedness shall not include: (1) indebtedness incurred for the purchase of goods or materials or for services obtained in the ordinary course of business (i.e., trade accounts payable), which will rank equally in right of payment and upon
liquidation with the Junior Subordinated Debenture; (2) any indebtedness which by its terms ranks equally with or subordinated to the Junior Subordinated Debentures in right of payment or upon liquidation; (3) indebtedness owed by the
Company to its Subsidiaries, which also will rank equally in right of payment and upon liquidation to the Junior Subordinated Debentures; and (4) any liability for Federal, state, local or other taxes owed or owing by the Company or its
Subsidiaries. Senior Indebtedness will continue to be Senior Indebtedness and entitled to the benefits of the subordination provisions of this Indenture irrespective of any amendment, modification or waiver of any term of the Senior Indebtedness or
extension or renewal of the Senior Indebtedness.       Shares Available for Issuance  means a number of shares of Common
Stock calculated in two steps, as follows:       

(i)  
  first, the Company will deduct from the number of its authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock, the maximum number of shares of Common Stock that can be issued
under existing options, warrants, convertible securities, any equity-linked contracts and other agreements which require it to issue a determinable number of shares of Common Stock; and     

(ii)  
  after the Company deducts the number of shares of Common Stock provided for in clause (i) from the number of the Company s authorized
    
         10   

and unissued shares of Common Stock, the Company will allocate on a pro rata basis or such other basis as it determines is appropriate, the remaining authorized and unissued shares of Common
Stock to the Alternative Payment Mechanism and to any other similar commitment that is of an indeterminate nature and under which the Company is then required to issue shares of Common Stock;     
  provided, that by acceptance of the Junior Subordinated Debentures, each holder of Junior Subordinated Debentures expressly agrees that the Company may
modify the foregoing definition of  Shares Available for Issuance  and the related provisions of this Third Supplemental Indenture without the consent of holders of the Junior Subordinated Debentures, provided that (i) the Company has
determined, in good faith, that such modification is not materially adverse to such holders, (ii) the rating agencies then rating the Junior Subordinated Debentures confirm the then current ratings of the Junior Subordinated Debentures and
(iii) the number of Shares Available for Issuance after giving effect to such modification will not fall below the then applicable threshold set forth in Section 6.2(c) hereof.      For the avoidance of doubt, if the number of authorized shares of Common Stock remaining after the two steps described above is not sufficient to satisfy the Company s remaining commitments, the
Company will have no obligation, other than its obligation to use commercially reasonable efforts as provided for in Section 6.2(c), to seek shareholder consent to increase the number of authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock.   
   Special Event Make-Whole Redemption Amount  means the sum, as calculated by the Premium Calculation Agent, of the present
values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal (discounted from December 15, 2031) and interest that would have been payable to and including December 15, 2031 (discounted from their respective Interest Payment Dates) on the
Junior Subordinated Debentures to be redeemed (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the
Treasury Rate plus 50 basis points; plus accrued and unpaid interest, together with any Compounded Interest, on the principal amount of the Junior Subordinated Debentures being redeemed to the Redemption Date.   
   Tax Event  means with respect to the Junior Subordinated Debentures the receipt by the Company of an opinion of counsel,
rendered by a law firm with experience in such matters, to the effect that, as a result of (a) any amendment to, or change (including any announced prospective change) in, the laws (or any regulations thereunder) of the United States or any
political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein, (b) any official administrative pronouncement (including a private letter ruling, technical advice memorandum or similar pronouncement) or judicial decision interpreting or applying
such laws or regulations, or (c) a threatened challenge asserted in connection with an audit of the Company or any of the Company s subsidiaries, or a threatened challenge asserted in writing against any other taxpayer that has raised
capital through the issuance of securities that are substantially similar to the Junior Subordinated Debentures, which amendment or change is enacted or effective or which pronouncement or decision is announced or which challenge becomes publicly
known on or after the date of initial issuance of the Junior Subordinated Debentures, there is more than an insubstantial increase in the risk that interest accruing or payable by the Company on the Junior   
         11   

Subordinated Debentures is not or, at any time subsequent to the Company s receipt of such opinion, will not be, wholly deductible by the Company for U.S. Federal income tax purposes.
      Telerate Page 3750  means the display designated on page 3750 on MoneyLine Telerate Page (or such other page as
may replace the 3750 page on the service or such other service as may be nominated by the British Bankers  Association for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates for U.S. Dollar deposits).   
   Third Supplemental Indenture  has the meaning provided in the preamble hereto.   
   Three-Month LIBOR  means, with respect to any Interest Payment Period, the rate (expressed as a percentage per annum) for
deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Interest Payment Period and ending on the next Interest Payment Date (the  Relevant Period ) that appears on MoneyLine Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00
a.m. (London time) on the LIBOR Determination Date for that Interest Payment Period. If such rate does not appear on MoneyLine Telerate Page 3750, LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for the Relevant
Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the Calculation Agent (after consultation with the Company), at
approximately 11:00 a.m., London time on the LIBOR Determination Date for that Interest Payment Period. The Calculation Agent will request the principal London office of each such bank to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such
quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Interest Payment Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest whole multiple of 0.00001%) of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are
provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Interest Payment Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest whole multiple of 0.00001%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New York City selected by the
Calculation Agent (after consultation with the Company), at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Interest Payment Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for the Relevant Period and in a principal
amount of not less than $1,000,000. However, if fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent to provide quotations are quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Interest Payment Period will be the same as LIBOR as determined
for the previous Interest Payment Period or, in the case of the Interest Payment Period beginning on December 15, 2036, 4.195%. The establishment of Three-Month LIBOR for each Interest Payment Period beginning on or after December 15, 2036
by the Calculation Agent shall (in the absence of manifest error) be final and binding.       Total Adjusted Capital 
has the meaning specified in subsection M of Section 1 (or the relevant successor section, if any) of the Model Act.   
   Trailing Four Quarters Consolidated Net Income Amount  means, for any fiscal quarter, the sum of the Company s
consolidated GAAP net income for the four fiscal quarters ending as of the last day of such fiscal quarter.       Treasury
Rate  means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the yield, under the heading that represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most   
         12   

recently published statistical release designated H.15(519) or any successor publication that is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and that establishes
yields on actively traded U.S. Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption Treasury Constant Maturities, for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (if no maturity is within three months before or after
the Remaining Life), yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue will be determined and the Treasury Rate will be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis,
rounding to the nearest month); or if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity
of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate will be   
  calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.       Trigger Event  will have occurred if one of the following conditions exists as of the date which is 30 days prior to any Interest Payment Date:   

(i)  
  the Covered Insurance Subsidiaries  Risk-Based Capital Ratio is less than 175% of the Company Action Level for the Covered Insurance Subsidiaries, in the case of
each Covered Insurance Subsidiary based on the most recent annual financial statements for the year ended prior to such Interest Payment Date for which such Covered Insurance Subsidiary has filed its Annual Statement with the applicable state
insurance commissioners; or         

(ii)  
  (x) the Trailing Four Quarters Consolidated Net Income Amount, for the period ending on the last day of the quarter that is two quarters prior to the Most Recently
Completed Quarter is zero or a negative amount, and (y) the Adjusted Stockholders  Equity Amount, as of the last day of the Most Recently Completed Quarter and as of the end of the quarter that is two quarters before the Most Recently
Completed Quarter, has declined by 10% or more as compared to the Adjusted Stockholders  Equity Amount at the end of the Benchmark Quarter;        provided, however, that       

(A)  
  if, because of a change in GAAP that results in a cumulative effect of a change in an accounting principle or a restatement, either (i) the Company s
consolidated net income is higher or lower than it would have been absent such change, then, for purposes of making the calculations described in clause (ii)(x) above, commencing with the fiscal quarter for which such change in GAAP becomes
effective, such consolidated net income will be calculated on a pro forma basis as if such change had not occurred; or (ii) the Adjusted Stockholders  Equity Amount as of a quarter end is higher or lower than it would have been absent such
change, then, for purposes of making the calculations described in clause (ii)(y) above, the Adjusted Stockholders  Equity Amount will be calculated on a pro forma basis as if such change had not occurred; and     
         13   

(B)  
  if, after the end of the Benchmark Quarter for an Interest Payment Date and before the end of the next quarter, the Company issues a material amount of equity
securities to fund an acquisition of a business or assets, with the consequence that the Adjusted Stockholders  Equity Amount as of the end of subsequent quarters is higher than otherwise would have been the case, then for purposes of making
the calculation described in clause (ii)(y) above, commencing with the quarter end after such issuance of a material amount of equity securities, the Adjusted Stockholders  Equity Amount will be calculated on a pro forma basis without giving
effect to the issuance of such material amount of equity securities until the later of (x) the first quarter end that is more than ten quarters after the end of the Benchmark Quarter and (y) if a Trigger Event occurs before the quarter end
determined pursuant to clause (x), the first quarter end as of which a Trigger Period is no longer continuing. For purposes of this clause, a  material amount of equity securities  means equity securities that result in an increase in the
Adjusted Stockholders  Equity Amount equal to or exceeding the greater of (i) 1.5% of the Company s stockholders  equity as of the end of the relevant Benchmark Quarter and (ii) $100 million, in each case calculated without
giving effect to this paragraph.         Trigger Period  means a period commencing upon the occurrence of a
Trigger Event and continuing until the Company is able again to satisfy both tests set forth in the definition of Trigger Event. In addition, in the case of a Trigger Event described in clause (ii) of the definition of  Trigger
Event,  the Trigger Period will continue until the Company is able again to satisfy the two tests in clauses (i) and (ii) of the definition of  Trigger Event  for an Interest Payment Date and the Company s Adjusted
Stockholders  Equity Amount has increased, or has declined by less than 10%, in either case as compared to the Adjusted Stockholders  Equity Amount at the end of the Benchmark Quarter for each Interest Payment Date as to which a Trigger
Event had occurred under clause (ii) of the definition of  Trigger Event .       Trustee  has the meaning set
forth in the preamble hereto.       U.S. Life Insurance Subsidiary  means any of the Company s Subsidiaries that is
organized under the laws of any state in the United States and is licensed as a life insurance company in any state in the United States but does not include any Subsidiary of a U.S. Life Insurance Subsidiary.   
         14   

ARTICLE 2      GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE JUNIOR SUBORDINATED      DEBENTURES   
  SECTION 2.1 DESIGNATION AND PRINCIPAL AMOUNT.      (a) There is hereby authorized a series of Securities designated the 6.40% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2066, limited in aggregate principal amount to not more than
$1,250,000,000 (subject to Section 2.1(b) hereof), which amount to be issued shall be as set forth in any written order of the Company for the authentication and delivery of Junior Subordinated Debentures pursuant to the Indenture.   
  (b) The Company may, from time to time, subject to compliance with any other applicable provisions of this Third Supplemental Indenture
but without the consent of the holders of the Junior Subordinated Debentures, create and issue pursuant to this Third Supplemental Indenture an unlimited principal amount of additional Junior Subordinated Debentures (in excess of any amounts
theretofore issued) having the same terms and conditions as those of the other Outstanding Junior Subordinated Debentures, except that any such additional Junior Subordinated Debentures (i) must be issued on an Interest Payment Date and (ii)
may have a different issue date and issue price from other Outstanding Junior Subordinated Debentures. Such additional Junior Subordinated Debentures shall constitute part of the same series of Junior Subordinated Debentures hereunder, unless any
such adjustment pursuant to this Section 2.1(b) shall cause such additional Junior Subordinated Debentures to constitute, as determined pursuant to an Opinion of Counsel, a different class of securities than the original series of Securities
for U.S. federal income tax purposes.      SECTION 2.2 FINAL MATURITY.      The final maturity date shall be December 15, 2066 (the  Final Maturity Date ). Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, in the event that the Final Maturity Date is not a Business Day, then
the Final Maturity Date will be the next succeeding day which is a Business Day.      SECTION 2.3 FORM AND PAYMENT.   
  Except as provided in Section 2.4 hereof, the Junior Subordinated Debentures shall be issued in fully registered certificated form
without interest coupons in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof, bearing identical terms. The Depository Trust Company shall serve as the initial Depositary for the Junior Subordinated Debentures. Principal and interest on the
Junior Subordinated Debentures issued in certificated form will be payable, the transfer of such Junior Subordinated Debentures will be registrable and such Junior Subordinated Debentures will be exchangeable for Junior Subordinated Debentures
bearing identical terms and provisions at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee; provided, however, that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Company (with the consent of the Trustee) by check mailed to the holder of a Junior
Subordinated Debenture at such address as shall appear in the Security Register; provided further, that, notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.3, for so long as the Depositary is the holder of all of the Outstanding Junior
  
         15   

Subordinated Debentures, and provided that the Depositary has provided wire transfer instructions to the Company or the Paying Agent in a timely manner prior to each Interest Payment Date (which
it may do by standing instructions) designating an account of the Depositary or its nominee at a commercial bank in the United States to which it wishes payments of interest on the Junior Subordinated Debentures to be made, the Company shall pay
interest on the Junior Subordinated Debentures by wire transfer of federal (same day) funds to the account of the Depositary or its nominee in accordance with such wire transfer instructions.      SECTION 2.4 INTEREST.      (a) From the date of initial issuance to but excluding
December 15, 2036 or earlier redemption, as applicable (the  Fixed Rate Period ) the Junior Subordinated Debentures will bear interest at an annual rate equal to 6.40%, payable semi-annually in arrears on June 15 and
December 15 of each year, commencing on June 15, 2007.      (b) Solely in the event that the Junior Subordinated
Debentures are not repaid or otherwise redeemed on or before the Scheduled Redemption Date, from and including December 15, 2036 to but excluding December 15, 2066 or earlier Maturity Date (the  Floating Rate Period ), the Junior
Subordinated Debentures will bear interest at an annual rate equal to Three-Month LIBOR plus a margin equal to 2.205%, payable quarterly in arrears on March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15 of each year.
     (c) Interest payments shall include accrued interest from and including the later of the issue date and the last date in
respect of which interest has been paid or duly provided for to, but not including, the next succeeding Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date, as the case may be. The amount of interest payable for any full Interest Payment Period during the
Fixed Rate Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months and during the Floating Rate Period on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed, and the amount of interest payable for any period
shorter than a full Interest Payment Period for which interest is computed will be computed on the basis of 30-day months and, for periods of less than a 30-day month, the actual number of days elapsed per 30-day month.   
  (d) Otherwise than in connection with the maturity or early redemption of the Junior Subordinated Debentures or the payment in whole or
in part of deferred or overdue interest on the Junior Subordinated Debentures, interest on the Junior Subordinated Debentures may be paid only on an Interest Payment Date. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, in the event that any Interest
Payment Date is not a Business Day, then payment of interest payable on such Interest Payment Date shall be made, (i) with respect to any Interest Payment Date during the Fixed Rate Period, on the next succeeding day which is a Business Day
without any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay and (ii) with respect to any Interest Payment Date during the Floating Rate Period, on the next succeeding day which is a Business Day, unless such date falls in the next
calendar month, in which case on the immediately preceding day which is a Business Day, except that if any of the Interest Payment Dates during the Floating Rate Period falls on a date fixed for redemption or repayment, and such day is not a
Business Day, the interest payment due on that date will be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day without any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay in connection with such redemption or repayment.   
         16   

(e) To the extent permitted by applicable law, interest not paid when due hereunder,
including, without limitation, all Optionally Deferred Interest, will accrue and compound on each Interest Payment Date at the then applicable interest rate on the Junior Subordinated Debentures on each Interest Payment Date until paid. References
to the term  interest  in this Indenture shall include such Compounded Interest.      (f) For so long as the Junior
Subordinated Debentures are represented by one or more Global Securities, interest in respect of each Junior Subordinated Debenture will be payable, on each Interest Payment Date to the Person in whose name the Junior Subordinated Debentures are
registered at the close of business on the Business Day next preceding the Interest Payment Date, which shall be the record date for such Interest Payment Date. In the event the Junior Subordinated Debentures at any time are not represented solely
by one or more Global Securities, the Company may select (with written notice thereof to be sent to the Trustee) a different record date, which shall be at least one Business Day before an Interest Payment Date. Any such interest installment not
punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered holders of Junior Subordinated Debentures on such record date, and may be paid to the Person in whose name the Junior Subordinated Debentures (or one or more
Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a special record date to be fixed by the Trustee for the payment of such defaulted interest after the Company has deposited with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate
amount proposed to be paid in respect of such defaulted interest, notice whereof shall be given to the registered holders of Junior Subordinated Debentures not less than 10 days prior to such special record date, or may be paid at any time in any
other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Junior Subordinated Debentures may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange.   
  ARTICLE 3   
  REDEMPTION OF THE JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES/SCHEDULED REDEMPTION   
  Article III of the Base Indenture shall be superseded in its entirety by this Article 3 with respect to, and solely for the benefit of
the holders of, the Junior Subordinated Debentures, provided that this Article 3 shall not become a part of the terms of any other series of Securities.      SECTION 3.1 OPTIONAL REDEMPTION.      (a) The Company shall have the right to redeem
the Junior Subordinated Debentures at its option:      (i) in whole or in part, at any time, on or after December 15, 2031,
at a cash redemption price equal to the Par Redemption Amount; provided that if the Junior Subordinated Debentures are not redeemed in whole pursuant to this clause (i), at least $50 million aggregate principal amount of the Junior Subordinated
Debentures (excluding any Junior Subordinated Debentures held by the Company or any of its Affiliates) must remain outstanding after giving effect to such redemption;   
         17   

(ii) in whole or in part, at any time prior to December 15, 2031, in cases not
involving a Tax Event or Rating Agency Event, at a cash redemption price equal to the greater of (x) the Par Redemption Amount and (y) the Make-Whole Redemption Amount; provided that if the Junior Subordinated Debentures are not redeemed
in whole pursuant to this clause (ii), at least $50 million aggregate principal amount of the Junior Subordinated Debentures (excluding any Junior Subordinated Debentures held by the Company or any of its Affiliates) must remain outstanding after
giving effect to such redemption; and      (iii) in whole, but not in part, at any time prior to December 15, 2031, within
180 days after the occurrence of a Tax Event or a Rating Agency Event, at a cash redemption price equal to the greater of (x) the Par Redemption Amount and (y) the Special Event Make-Whole Redemption Amount.   
  (b) With respect to any redemption of Junior Subordinated Debentures as a result of a Tax Event or a Rating Agency Event, the date fixed
for such redemption will be within 180 days following the occurrence of such Tax Event or Rating Agency Event, as applicable; provided, however, that if at that time the Company is able to eliminate, within the 180-day period, the Tax Event or the
Rating Agency Event by taking some ministerial action (such as making an election or filing a form) that has no adverse effect on the Company or the holders of the Junior Subordinated Debentures, the Company shall pursue such action in lieu of
redemption. The Company will have no right or obligation to redeem the Junior Subordinated Debentures while pursuing such measure.      SECTION
3.2 SCHEDULED REDEMPTION.      (a) Subject to the limitations contained in this Section 3.2, the Company shall repay the
principal amount of the Junior Subordinated Debentures, together with accrued and unpaid interest, on December 15, 2036 (the  Scheduled Redemption Date       (b) The Company shall repay the Junior Subordinated Debentures on the Scheduled Redemption Date only to the extent that the Company has raised sufficient net proceeds during the applicable QCS Proceeds
Collection Period from the issuance of Qualifying Capital Securities;      (c) The Company will use QCS Commercially Reasonable
Efforts, subject to the Company s right to otherwise redeem the Junior Subordinated Debentures pursuant to Section 3.1(a) hereof, to raise sufficient net proceeds during the applicable QCS Proceeds Collection Period from the issuance of
Qualifying Capital Securities to permit repayment of the Junior Subordinated Debentures in full on the Scheduled Redemption Date. If the Company has not raised sufficient net proceeds during the applicable QCS Proceeds Collection Period to permit
repayment of all principal and accrued and unpaid interest, including any Compounded Interest, on the Junior Subordinated Debentures on the Scheduled Redemption Date, the Company shall continue to use QCS Commercially Reasonable Efforts, subject to
the Company s right to otherwise redeem the Junior Subordinated Debentures pursuant to Section 3.1(a) hereof, to raise sufficient net proceeds during the applicable QCS Proceeds Collection Period from the issuance of Qualifying Capital
Securities to permit repayment of the Junior Subordinated Debentures on the next Interest Payment Date, and on each Interest Payment Date thereafter, until the Junior Subordinated Debentures are paid in full;   
         18   

(d) The Company shall not be required to redeem the Junior Subordinated Debentures on the
Scheduled Redemption Date or any Interest Payment Date following the Scheduled Redemption Date (and prior to the Final Maturity Date), as the case may be (each a  Required Repayment Date ), to the extent it provides written certification
to the Trustee (which the Trustee will promptly forward upon receipt to each holder of record of Junior Subordinated Debentures) not less than 15 and no more than 30 days prior to such Required Repayment Date (the  Notice Date ) certifying
that either:       

(1)  
  a Market Disruption Event was existing and continued during the entire applicable QCS Proceeds Collection Period, or     

(2)  
  the Company was unable after using QCS Commercially Reasonable Efforts to raise sufficient net proceeds during the applicable QCS Proceeds Collection Period to permit
repayment of the Junior Subordinated Debentures in full on the applicable Required Repayment Date;        (e) Net
proceeds from the sale of Qualifying Capital Securities received during the applicable QCS Proceeds Collection Period that the Company is permitted to apply to the repayment of Junior Subordinated Debentures on or after the Scheduled Redemption Date
will be applied:       

(1)  
  first, to pay interest on the Junior Subordinated Debentures that the Company is not paying from other sources (other than interest required to be paid pursuant to the
Alternative Payment Mechanism) and,         

(2)  
  second, to repay the principal of Junior Subordinated Debentures; provided that if the Company raises less than $5 million of net proceeds from the sale of Qualifying
Capital Securities during the applicable QCS Proceeds Collection Period, it will not be required to repay any Junior Subordinated Debentures on the Scheduled Redemption Date or the applicable Required Payment Date, but will use those net proceeds to
repay the Junior Subordinated Debentures on the next Required Payment Date as of which it has raised at least $5 million of net proceeds;        (f) If, as of any Required Payment Date, the Company is obligated to use QCS Commercially Reasonable Efforts to sell Qualifying Capital Securities and apply the net proceeds to payments of principal of or
interest on any outstanding Parity Debt Securities in addition to the Junior Subordinated Debentures, then on any date and for any period the amount of net proceeds received by the Company from those sales and available for such payments shall be
applied to the Junior Subordinated   
         19   

Debentures and such Parity Debt Securities having the same scheduled repayment date or scheduled redemption date as the Junior Subordinated Debentures pro rata in accordance with their respective
outstanding principal amounts and none of such net proceeds shall be applied to any other securities having a later scheduled repayment date or scheduled redemption date until the principal of and all accrued and unpaid interest on the Junior
Subordinated Debentures has been paid in full;      (g) The Company shall not, without written notice to the Trustee and the
consent of a majority in principal amount of the Junior Subordinated Debentures, amend the RCC to impose additional restrictions on the type or amount of Qualifying Capital Securities that the Company may include for purposes of determining when
repayment, redemption or repurchase of the Junior Subordinated Debentures is permitted; and      (h) The Replacement Capital
Obligation shall continue to apply until (i) the Company has redeemed the Junior Subordinated Debentures in full in accordance with the Replacement Capital Obligation, (ii) the Junior Subordinated Debentures are otherwise paid in full on the
Final Maturity Date, or (iii) upon the occurrence of an Event of Default resulting in acceleration of the Junior Subordinated Debentures.   
  SECTION 3.3 REDEMPTION PROCEDURE FOR JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES.      The Company shall mail, or cause the Trustee to mail, notice of every redemption of Junior Subordinated Debentures by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the Junior
Subordinated Debentures to be redeemed at such holders  respective last addresses appearing on the Security Register. Any redemption pursuant to this Article 3 shall be made upon no less than 15 and no more than 30 days  notice before the
date fixed for redemption to the registered holders of the Junior Subordinated Debentures. If the Junior Subordinated Debentures are to be redeemed in part pursuant to Section 3.1 or 3.2 hereof, (a) the Company shall give the Trustee no
less than 15 and no more than 30 days  notice in advance of the date fixed for redemption and (b) the Junior Subordinated Debentures shall be redeemed pro rata or by lot or by any other method utilized by the Trustee that the Trustee shall
deem fair and appropriate in its discretion. Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 3.3 shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder of the Junior Subordinated Debentures receives such notice, but failure
duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of the Junior Subordinated Debentures designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other
Junior Subordinated Debentures. Each such notice given to such a holder shall state: (i) the Redemption Date; (ii) the redemption price; (iii) that the Junior Subordinated Debentures are being redeemed pursuant to the Indenture or the
terms of the Junior Subordinated Debentures together with the facts permitting such redemption; (iv) if less than all Outstanding Junior Subordinated Debentures are to be redeemed, the identification (and, in the case of partial redemption, the
principal amounts) of the particular Junior Subordinated Debentures to be redeemed; (v) the place or places where the Junior Subordinated Debentures are to be redeemed; and (vi) that interest on the Junior Subordinated Debentures to be
redeemed will cease to accrue on the Redemption Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Junior Subordinated Debentures are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be
given to the holders of Junior Subordinated Debentures at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. The redemption price shall be paid prior to 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the date of such   
         20   

redemption or at such earlier time on such date as the Company determines and specifies in the notice of redemption. The Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent an amount of
money sufficient to pay the redemption price of such Junior Subordinated Debentures or any portion thereof which are to be redeemed on Redemption Date.      SECTION 3.4 PAYMENT OF SECURITIES CALLED FOR REDEMPTION.      If any notice of
redemption has been given as provided in Section 3.3 hereof, the Junior Subordinated Debentures or portion of the Junior Subordinated Debentures with respect to which such notice has been given shall become due and payable on the date and at
the place or places stated in such notice at the applicable redemption price. From and after such date, the Junior Subordinated Debentures to be redeemed shall cease to bear interest. If any Junior Subordinated Debentures called for redemption shall
not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the redemption price shall, until paid, bear interest from the date set for redemption until the date redemption actually occurs at the then applicable interest rate on the Junior Subordinated
Debentures. On presentation and surrender of certificates representing such Junior Subordinated Debentures at a place of payment in said notice specified, the said Junior Subordinated Debentures or the specified portions thereof shall be paid and
redeemed by the Company at the applicable redemption price. Upon presentation of certificates representing Junior Subordinated Debentures to be redeemed in part only, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the
holder thereof, at the expense of the Company, a new certificate or certificates representing Junior Subordinated Debentures, of authorized denominations, in aggregate principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the Junior Subordinated
Debentures represented by the certificate(s) so presented and having the same original issue date, Final Maturity Date and terms. If a Global Security is so surrendered, such new Junior Subordinated Debentures will also be a new Global Security.
     SECTION 3.5 NO SINKING FUND.      The Junior Subordinated Debentures shall not be entitled to the benefit of any sinking fund.      ARTICLE 4      OPTIONAL DEFERRAL OF INTEREST AND TRIGGER EVENTS   
  SECTION 4.1 OPTIONAL DEFERRAL OF INTEREST.      So long as (i) no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and (ii) no Trigger Event has occurred and the related Trigger Period is continuing, the Company may elect to defer one or more
payments of interest on such Junior Subordinated Debentures (an  Optional Deferral  and any such deferred interest,  Optionally Deferred Interest ) at any time during the term of the Junior Subordinated Debentures, and from time
to time, for up to ten years (which may include a combination of semi-annual and quarterly Interest Payment Periods) without giving rise to an Event of Default and acceleration under the terms of the Indenture, provided, however, that
(notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein) the Company may not defer any payment of interest past the Maturity Date and no Optional Deferral Period (as defined below) may end on a date other than on an Interest Payment Date. During any
Optional Deferral and for   
         21   

so long as any Optionally Deferred Interest remains outstanding (an  Optional Deferral Period ), the Company may pay Optionally Deferred Interest that was deferred through the Fifth
Deferral Anniversary out of any source of funds. Optionally Deferred Interest will continue to accrue and compound on each Interest Payment Date, to the extent permitted by applicable law, at the then applicable interest rate on the Junior
Subordinated Debentures. If Optional Deferral has continued beyond the Fifth Deferral Anniversary, then the provisions of Section 6.2 hereof will apply, and the Company (except on the Final Maturity Date or upon an acceleration of the Junior
Subordinated Debentures following an Event of Default (an  Acceleration Date ) with respect to the Junior Subordinated Debentures) must make Commercially Reasonable Efforts to sell Common Stock (unless such interest has been (or is being)
paid from the proceeds of Qualifying Warrants) to satisfy its obligation to pay Optionally Deferred Interest on the Junior Subordinated Debentures and may pay such Optionally Deferred Interest only out of the net proceeds from the sale of Qualifying
APM Securities. Additionally, during any Optional Deferral Period, the restrictions on payment by the Company of dividends and other distributions on capital stock pursuant to Section 6.1 hereof will apply. Subject to the proviso in the first
sentence of this Section 4.1, there is no limit on the number of Optional Deferral Periods that the Company may begin.      SECTION 4.2
NOTICES OF DEFERRAL AND TRIGGER PERIOD.      (a) The Company shall provide a written notice of any Optional Deferral to the Trustee
and the holders of the Junior Subordinated Debentures no more than 30 and no fewer than 15 days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date. Subject to Section 4.2(b) hereof, a notice of Optional Deferral, once given, shall be irrevocable and
the deferral of payments on the related Interest Payment Date shall be considered an Optional Deferral, unless a Trigger Event has occurred as of the 30th day prior to such Interest Payment Date.   
  (b) Not earlier than the 30th nor later than the 15th day prior to each Interest Payment Date during a Trigger Period, the Company shall
give written notice of the continuance of such Trigger Period to the Trustee and holders of the Junior Subordinated Debentures. Such notice shall, depending on which condition is relied upon in determining that a Trigger Event has occurred, set
forth either (x) the Covered Insurance Subsidiaries  Risk-Based Capital Ratio or (y) the Trailing Four Quarters Consolidated Net Income Amount and the Adjusted Stockholders  Equity Amount, as applicable, and the extent to which these
amounts must increase in order for payments of interest from sources other than the Alternative Payment Mechanism to resume.      SECTION 4.3
TRIGGER EVENTS.      (a) (i) If and to the extent that a Trigger Event has occurred and the Trigger Period caused thereby is
continuing as of the 30th day prior to an Interest Payment Date, and regardless of any notice of Optional Deferral that has been previously delivered, the Company may pay interest on the Junior Subordinated Debentures (other than any interest that
had accrued during an Optional Deferral Period through the Fifth Deferral Anniversary thereof and prior to the occurrence of a Trigger Event which may continue to be deferred to the extent provided herein or be paid out of any source of funds) only
to the extent that such interest is paid through the Alternative Payment Mechanism. Any interest that is accrued and unpaid during a Trigger   
         22   

Period will continue to accrue and compound on each Interest Payment Date, to the extent permitted by applicable law, at the then applicable interest rate on the Junior Subordinated Debentures.
     (ii) If a Trigger Event occurs after commencement of an Optional Deferral Period, the Optional Deferral Period shall be
deemed suspended for as long as the related Trigger Period is continuing. Once the Trigger Period is no longer continuing, the Optional Deferral Period shall resume subject to the limitations and consequences described herein, and any accrued time
during the Optional Deferral Period prior to such suspension shall be counted toward the five year limitation set forth in Section 6.2 hereof.      (b) In the event that a Trigger Period is no longer continuing and at the termination of the Trigger Period there is no unpaid interest from an Optional Deferral Period that had continued beyond the Fifth
Deferral Anniversary, the Company may pay subsequent interest in cash from any source of funds. However, any unpaid interest that accrued during the continuance of a Trigger Period or an Optional Deferral Period that continued beyond the Fifth
Deferral Anniversary may only be satisfied in accordance with the provisions of the Alternative Payment Mechanism, except that on the Final Maturity Date and on the Acceleration Date of the Junior Subordinated Debentures, the Company may pay any
accrued and unpaid interest without regard to the source of funds. Any accrued and unpaid interest will in all events be due and payable upon the Maturity Date or redemption of the Junior Subordinated Debentures, except for Foregone Interest (if
any).      ARTICLE 5      EVENTS OF DEFAULT      SECTION 5.1 EVENTS OF DEFAULT.   
  (a) The term  Event of Default,  in the Indenture shall mean with respect to the Junior Subordinated Debentures only, the
occurrence and continuation of any one or more of the following events and shall not have any other meanings ascribed to such term in the Base Indenture or any other indenture supplementing the Indenture:   

(i)  
  default in the payment of the principal of, or premium, if any, on the Junior Subordinated Debentures when due;     

(ii)  
  the failure to pay interest (including Compounded Interest) in full, whether due to an Optional Deferral, during a Trigger Period or otherwise, after the conclusion of
a period of 10 consecutive years following the commencement of any Optional Deferral Period or Trigger Period or on the Final Maturity Date;         

(iii)  
  the entry by a court of competent jurisdiction of:         

(1)  
  a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law and such decree or order shall remain unstayed
and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days;     
         23   

(2)  
  a decree or order adjudging the Company to be insolvent, or approving a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of the Company and such
decree or order shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or         

(3)  
  a final and non-appealable order appointing a Custodian of the Company or of any substantial part of the property of the Company or ordering the winding up or
liquidation of the affairs of the Company; or         

(iv)  
  the Company pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law: (A) commences a voluntary case or proceeding; (B) consents to the entry of an order for relief
against it in an involuntary case or proceeding; (C) files a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief or consents to such filing or to the appointment of or taking possession by a Custodian of it or for all or
substantially all of its property, and such Custodian is not discharged within 60 days; (D) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or (E) admits in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due.
       (b) For the avoidance of doubt, (i) Events of Default with respect to the Junior Subordinated Debentures
do not include failure to comply with or breach of the Company s other covenants set forth in Article 6 hereof with respect to the Junior Subordinated Debentures (each, an  Other Covenant Default ), including the covenant to sell
Common Stock pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism to meet certain interest payment obligations and (ii) the occurrence and continuation of the events described in Section 5.1(a)(i) or (ii) shall constitute an Event of
Default, even if any such event has occurred and is continuing because of the provisions of Section 7 hereof.      (c)
Holders of Junior Subordinated Debentures may not themselves institute a proceeding against the Company on account of an Other Covenant Default unless, among other things, the Trustee fails to institute such a proceeding, subject to the terms
hereof. However, the holders of a majority in principal amount of Junior Subordinated Debentures may direct the Trustee to bring such a proceeding if an Other Covenant Default continues for a period of 90 days after delivery of written notice to the
Company from the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee from the holders of a majority in principal amount of the Junior Subordinated Debentures (each, an  Other Covenant Default Notice ), subject to the terms hereof. The Trustee shall
not be required to take any action in case of an Other Covenant Default (other than to give notice of such default to the holders of the Junior Subordinated Debentures) unless so directed by the holders.   
  (d) Subject to the provisions of Section 5.1(c) hereof as to Other Covenant Defaults, the provisions of Section 6.04 of the
Base Indenture shall apply with respect to limitations on suits, proceedings and remedies.   
         24   

(e) Within 90 days after an Event of Default, the Trustee shall give to the holders of
Junior Subordinated Debentures notice of all uncured and unwaived defaults by the Company known to it; provided, however, that the failure of the Trustee to give such notice shall not be deemed to be a breach by the Trustee hereunder. However,
except in the case of default in payment of interest, the Trustee may withhold such notice if it determines that such withholding is in the interest of such holders.      ARTICLE 6      COVENANTS   
  Article IV of the Base Indenture is hereby supplemented with respect to, and solely for the benefit of the holders of the Junior
Subordinated Debentures by, the following additional covenants of the Company; provided that the Junior Subordinated Debentures shall also benefit from the other covenants in Article IV of the Base Indenture:   
  SECTION 6.1 CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS DURING OPTIONAL DEFERRAL PERIODS OR FOLLOWING A TRIGGER EVENT.   
  On any date on which accrued interest through the most recent Interest Payment Date has not been paid in full, whether because of an
Optional Deferral or a Trigger Event, the Company, subject to certain exceptions set forth below will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to:       

(a)  
  declare or pay any dividends on, make any distribution with respect to, or redeem, purchase, acquire or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any shares of its
capital stock, other than:         

(i)  
  any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of shares of capital stock of the Company in connection with (x) any employment contract, employee or benefit plan or
other similar arrangement, (y) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder purchase plan, or (z) the issuance of capital stock of the Company, or securities convertible into or exercisable for such capital stock, as consideration in an
acquisition transaction entered into prior to the applicable Optional Deferral or Trigger Event, as the case may be;         

(ii)  
  any exchange, redemption or conversion of any class or series of capital stock of the Company, or the capital stock of one of the Company s Subsidiaries, for any
other class or series of capital stock of the Company, or of any class or series of the Company s indebtedness for any class or series of capital stock of the Company;     

(iii)  
  any purchase of, or payment of cash in lieu of, fractional interests in shares of capital stock of the Company pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such
capital stock or the securities being converted or exchanged;     
         25   

(iv)  
  any declaration of a dividend in connection with any rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any rights plan, or the redemption or
repurchase of rights pursuant thereto; or         

(v)  
  any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights
is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equal with or junior to such stock;        (b)
make any payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest on, or repay, repurchase or redeem, any debt securities issued by the Company that rank equally with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures, other than any payment, repurchase or
redemption in respect of debt securities that rank equally with the Junior Subordinated Debentures ( Parity Debt Securities ) made ratably and in proportion to the respective amount of (1) accrued and unpaid amounts on such Parity
Debt Securities, on the one hand, and (2) accrued and unpaid amounts on the Junior Subordinated Debentures, on the other hand; or      (c) make any guarantee payments with respect to Parity Debt Securities, if such guarantee ranks equally with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures, other than any payment in respect of
guarantees that rank equally with the Junior Subordinated Debentures ( Parity Guarantees  and, together with the Parity Debt Securities, the  Parity Securities ) made ratably and in proportion to the respective amount of
(1) accrued and unpaid amounts on such Parity Guarantees, on the one hand, and (2) accrued and unpaid amounts on the Junior Subordinated Debentures, on the other hand; it being understood, for the avoidance of doubt, that the Company shall
be permitted to make any guarantee payments pursuant to its       

(1)  
  Guarantee Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005, with respect to the 4.82% trust preferred securities issued by MetLife Capital Trust II;     

(2)  
  Guarantee Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005, with respect to the 4.91% trust preferred securities issued by MetLife Capital Trust III;     

(3)  
  Common Securities Guarantee Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005, with respect to the common securities issued by MetLife Capital Trust II; and

(4)  
  Common Securities Guarantee Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005, with respect to the common securities issued by MetLife Capital Trust III.
       The restrictions contained in this Section 6.1 shall not apply to:   

(1)  
  any payment of current interest in respect of Parity Securities that is made pro rata to the amounts due on such Parity Securities (including the Junior Subordinated
Debentures) and any payments of deferred interest on Parity Securities that, if not made, would     
         26   

cause the Company to breach the terms of the instrument governing such Parity Securities; provided that such payments are made in accordance with Section 6.2(f) to the extent it applies;

(2)  
  any payment of principal in respect of Parity Securities having the same scheduled redemption date as the Junior Subordinated Debentures, as required under a provision
of such Parity Securities that is substantially the same as the provision of Section 3.2 hereof and that is made on a pro rata basis among one or more series of Parity Securities having such a provision and the Junior Subordinated Debentures;
or         

(3)  
  any purchase or acquisition of the Company s Capital Stock by any of the Company s separate accounts.     
  SECTION 6.2 OBLIGATION TO EFFECT CERTAIN SALES OF COMMON STOCK OF THE COMPANY; ALTERNATIVE PAYMENT MECHANISM.   
  (a) Subject to certain conditions and exceptions described below:   

(1)  
  if the Company has optionally deferred payment of interest otherwise due on the Junior Subordinated Debentures for a period of more than five consecutive years
(excluding any time an Optional Deferral Period is suspended pursuant to Section 4.3 hereof)(the last day of such five-year period, the  Fifth Deferral Anniversary ), or     

(2)  
  if a Trigger Event has occurred and the related Trigger Period is continuing on an Interest Payment Date (regardless of whether a notice of an Optional Deferral has
been delivered),        then: (i) the Company may satisfy its obligation to pay interest on the Junior Subordinated Debentures
(A) in the case of an event described in clause (1) above, on any subsequent Interest Payment Date and (B) in the case of an event described in clause (2) above, on such Interest Payment Date (in each case, other than any interest
that has accrued during an Optional Deferral Period prior to Fifth Deferral Anniversary thereof and prior to the occurrence of a Trigger Event, which may continue to be deferred to the extent provided herein or be paid out of any source of funds and
except that on the Final Maturity Date and on the Acceleration Date of the Junior Subordinated Debentures, the Company may pay interest without regard to the source of funds), only to the extent of net proceeds from the sale of Qualifying APM
Securities received by the Company during the 180 days prior to such Interest Payment Date (the  Alternative Payment Mechanism  and (ii) the Company must make Commercially Reasonable Efforts to sell Common Stock, the sale of which
will provide sufficient cash proceeds to pay any amount due to the holders of the Junior Subordinated Debentures in satisfaction of all accrued and unpaid interest, together with any Compounded Interest, to the extent permitted by law (unless such
interest has been paid (or is being paid) from the sale of Qualifying Warrants). Such obligation will continue until all unpaid interest has been paid in full or, if such obligation has arisen only   
         27   

because a Trigger Event has occurred and the related Trigger Period is continuing, until such Trigger Period is no longer continuing. The Company s obligation to make Commercially Reasonable
Efforts to sell Common Stock to satisfy its obligation to pay interest (x) does not apply to interest that has accrued during an Optional Deferral Period through the Fifth Deferral Anniversary, and (y) does not apply on the Final Maturity
Date and on the Acceleration Date of the Junior Subordinated Debentures. Any accrued and unpaid interest will, in all events be due and payable on the Maturity Date, except for Forgone Interest to the extent provided for in Article 11 hereof.
     (b) The net proceeds received by the Company from the sale of Qualifying APM Securities (i) during the 180 days prior to
any Interest Payment Date on which the Company is required to use the Alternative Payment Mechanism and (ii) designated by the Company at or before the time of such sale as available to pay interest on the Junior Subordinated Debentures will, at the
time such proceeds are delivered to the Trustee to satisfy the relevant interest payment, be deemed to satisfy the Company s obligations to pay interest on the Junior Subordinated Debentures pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism.
     (c) The Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to seek shareholder consent to increase the number of its
authorized shares of Common Stock if, at any date, its Shares Available for Issuance fall below the greater of:       

(x)  
  250 million shares (as adjusted for any stock split, stock dividend, reclassification, recapitalization, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or similar
transaction since the date of this Third Supplemental Indenture), and         

(y)  
  three times the number of shares that the Company would need to issue to raise sufficient proceeds to pay (assuming a price per share equal to the average trading price
of its shares over the 10-trading-day period preceding such date) then outstanding deferred interest on the Junior Subordinated Debentures (including Compounded Interest), plus twelve additional months of interest (including Compounded Interest) on
the Junior Subordinated Debentures, up to a total of ten years of interest (including Compounded Interest). For purposes of determining the amounts accruing during a Floating Rate Period, interest will be computed by reference to spot Three-Month
LIBOR on such calculation date plus a margin equal to 2.205%.        An  Other Covenant Default  (as defined in
Section 5.1(b) hereof) shall have occurred (but no Event of Default shall have occurred) if the Company does not use its commercially reasonable efforts to seek consent of its stockholders to increase the number of its authorized shares if, at
any date, its Shares Available for Issuance fall below the number specified above.      (d) Following the Fifth Deferral
Anniversary or the occurrence of a Trigger Event, the Company shall apply the net proceeds received by it from sales of shares of its Common Stock pursuant to this Section 6.2 to the payment of interest on the Junior Subordinated Debentures
then Outstanding, with net proceeds to be paid promptly after receipt until all interest amounts owing have been paid in full.   
         28   

(e) In the event that net proceeds received by the Company from one or more sales of shares
of its Common Stock following such Fifth Deferral Anniversary or the occurrence of a Trigger Event are not sufficient to satisfy the full interest amount, such net proceeds will be paid to the holders of the Junior Subordinated Debentures on a pro
rata basis.      (f) Any interest payment made pursuant to the provisions of this Section 6.2 will first be allocated to payment
of the interest due on the Interest Payment Date for the then current Interest Payment Period. Any payment of interest in excess of the amount of the interest due on that Interest Payment Date will be applied first against any then existing accrued
and unpaid interest with respect to prior Interest Payment Periods for which interest must be paid pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism, in chronological order beginning with the earliest Interest Payment Period for which interest has not
been paid in full and for which interest must be paid pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism, including Compounded Interest. If the Company has Outstanding at such time any debt securities ranking pari passu with the Junior Subordinated
Debentures under the terms of which the Company is obligated to sell Common Stock and apply the net proceeds to payment of deferred interest on such pari passu securities and the Company at such time is required to apply such proceeds to pay
deferred interest on such pari passu securities, then on any date and for any period the amount of net proceeds received by the Company from such sales and available for payment of such deferred interest shall be applied to the Junior Subordinated
Debentures and such pari passu securities on a pro rata basis, or on such other basis as any regulatory authority may direct (taking into account the availability of proceeds of preferred shares or other securities to settle deferred interest under
any such other pari passu securities). Notwithstanding the foregoing, a partial payment will be applied (i) only to Optionally Deferred Interest to the extent that the source of such partial payment is other than proceeds of Qualifying APM
Securities, and (ii) first to interest that is unpaid during a Trigger Period and second to Optionally Deferred Interest, to the extent that the source of such partial payment is the sale of Qualifying APM Securities.   
  (g) If the Company elects to satisfy its obligation to pay deferred interest pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism by issuing
Qualifying Warrants, it will only do so if the total number of shares of Common Stock underlying such Qualifying Warrants applied to pay interest on the Junior Subordinated Debentures pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism, together with the
total number of shares of Common Stock underlying all prior issuances of Qualifying Warrants so applied, does not exceed an amount equal to 15% of the total number of the Company s issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock as of the date of
any proposed issuance.      SECTION 6.3 PAYMENT OF EXPENSES.      The Company, as issuer of the Junior Subordinated Debentures, shall pay or caused to be paid all costs and expenses relating to the offering, sale and issuance thereof, including compensation of the
Trustee under the Indenture in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.06 of the Base Indenture.   
         29   

SECTION 6.4 PAYMENT UPON RESIGNATION OR REMOVAL.   
  Upon termination of this Third Supplemental Indenture or the Base Indenture or the removal or resignation of the Trustee, the Company
shall pay to the Trustee all amounts accrued to the date of such termination, removal or resignation. ARTICLE 7 SUBORDINATION   
  Article XV of the Base Indenture shall be superseded in its entirety by this Article 7 with respect to, and solely for the benefit of,
the holders of the Junior Subordinated Debentures; provided, that this Article 7 shall not become a part of the terms of any other series of Securities.      SECTION 7.1 AGREEMENT TO SUBORDINATE.      The Company agrees, and each holder by
accepting any Junior Subordinated Debentures agrees, that the indebtedness evidenced by the Junior Subordinated Debentures is subordinated in right of payment, to the extent and in the manner provided in this Article 7, to the prior payment in full
of all Senior Indebtedness, and that the subordination is for the benefit of, and shall be enforceable directly by, the holders of Senior Indebtedness, without any act or notice of acceptance hereof or reliance hereon.   
  SECTION 7.2 LIQUIDATION; DISSOLUTION; BANKRUPTCY.      In the event of:      (a) any insolvency, bankruptcy, receivership, liquidation,
reorganization, readjustment, composition or other similar proceeding relating to the Company, its creditors or its property;   
  (b) any proceeding for the liquidation, dissolution or other winding up of the Company, voluntary or involuntary, whether or not
involving insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings;      (c) any general assignment by the Company for the benefit of creditors; or
     (d) any other marshalling of the assets of the Company,      all Senior Indebtedness (including, without limitation, interest accruing after the commencement of any such proceeding, assignment or marshalling of assets) shall first be paid in full before any payment
or distribution, whether in cash, securities or other property, shall be made by the Company on account of the Junior Subordinated Debentures. In any such event, any payment or distribution, whether in cash, securities or other property, which would
otherwise (but for the provisions of this Article 7) be payable or deliverable in respect of the Junior Subordinated Debentures (including any such payment or distribution which may be payable or deliverable by reason of the payment of any other
indebtedness of the Company being subordinated to the payment of the Securities) shall generally be paid to the holders of Senior Indebtedness, or to their representatives, in accordance with the priorities then existing among such holders until all
Senior Indebtedness shall have been paid in full. Payments on the Junior Subordinated Debentures in the form of other securities of the Company or those of any other   
         30   

corporation provided for by a plan of reorganization or a readjustment, the payment of which is subordinate, at least to the extent provided in the subordination provisions of this Third
Supplemental Indenture with respect to the indebtedness evidenced by the Junior Subordinated Debentures, to the payment of all Senior Indebtedness at the time outstanding and to any securities issued in respect of such Senior Indebtedness under any
such plan of reorganization or readjustment, shall be paid or delivered directly to the holders of Senior Indebtedness and then, if any amounts remain, to the holders of Junior Subordinated Debentures. No present or future holder of any Senior
Indebtedness will be prejudiced in the right to enforce the subordination of the Junior Subordinated Debentures by any act or failure to act on the part of the Company.      SECTION 7.3 DEFAULT ON SENIOR INDEBTEDNESS.      No direct or indirect payment, in
cash, property or securities, by set-off or otherwise, may be made or agreed to be made on account of the Junior Subordinated Debentures including in respect of any repayment, redemption, retirement, purchase or other acquisition of the Junior
Subordinated Debentures, if: (i) the Company defaults in the payment of any principal, or premium, if any, or interest on any Senior Indebtedness, whether at maturity or at a date fixed for prepayment or declaration or otherwise; or
(ii) an event of default occurs with respect to any Senior Indebtedness permitting the holders thereof to accelerate the maturity and written notice of such event of default, requesting that payments on the Junior Subordinated Debentures cease,
is given to the Company by any holder of Senior Indebtedness, unless and until such event of default has been cured or waived or ceases to exist.      SECTION 7.4 WHEN DISTRIBUTION MUST BE PAID OVER.      Subject to Section 8.1
hereof, if a distribution is made to the Trustee or any holder of Junior Subordinated Debentures at a time when a Responsible Officer of the Trustee or such holder has actual knowledge that, because of this Article 7 such distribution should not
have been made to it, the Trustee or such holder who receives the distribution shall hold it in trust for the benefit of, and, upon written request, shall pay it over to, the holders of Senior Indebtedness as their interests may appear, or their
agents or representatives, for application to the payment of all principal, premium, if any, and interest then payable with respect to any Senior Indebtedness.      SECTION 7.5 SUBROGATION.      Senior Indebtedness shall not be deemed to have been
paid in full unless the holders thereof shall have received cash, securities or other property equal to the amount of such Senior Indebtedness then Outstanding. After payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness, holders of the Junior Subordinated
Debentures will be subrogated to the rights of any holders of Senior Indebtedness to receive any further payments that are applicable to the Senior Indebtedness until all the Junior Subordinated Debentures are paid in full. In matters between
holders of the Junior Subordinated Debentures and any other type of the Company s creditors, any payments that would otherwise be paid to holders of Senior Indebtedness and that are made to holders of the Junior Subordinated Debentures because
of this subrogation will be deemed a payment by the Company on account of Senior Indebtedness and not on account of the Junior Subordinated Debentures.   
         31   

SECTION 7.6 RELATIVE RIGHTS.      This Article 7 defines the relative rights of holders of the Junior Subordinated Debentures and holders of Senior Indebtedness. Unless otherwise specified in Article 11 hereof, nothing in this Indenture
shall:      (a) impair, as between the Company and holders of Junior Subordinated Debentures, the obligation of the Company, which
is absolute and unconditional, to pay principal of and interest on the Junior Subordinated Debentures in accordance with their terms;      (b) affect the relative rights of holders of Junior Subordinated Debentures other than their rights in relation to holders of Senior Indebtedness; or   
  (c) prevent the Trustee or any holder of Junior Subordinated Debentures from exercising its available remedies upon a Default, an Other
Covenant Default or Event of Default, subject to the rights of holders and beneficial owners of Senior Indebtedness to receive distributions and payments otherwise payable to holders of Junior Subordinated Debentures.   
  SECTION 7.7 RIGHTS OF THE TRUSTEE; HOLDERS OF SENIOR INDEBTEDNESS.      With respect to the holders of Senior Indebtedness of the Company, the Trustee undertakes to perform or to observe only such of its covenants and obligations as are specifically set forth in this Article
7, and no implied covenants or obligations with respect to the holders of such Senior Indebtedness shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee. The Trustee shall not be deemed to owe any fiduciary duty to the holders of such Senior
Indebtedness and the Trustee shall not be liable to any holder of such Senior Indebtedness (except with respect to holders of any Senior Indebtedness for which the Trustee is acting as trustee under the Base Indenture or otherwise) if it shall pay
over or deliver to holders of Junior Subordinated Debentures, the Company or any other Person money or assets to which any holder of such Senior Indebtedness shall be entitled by virtue of this Article 7 or otherwise.   
  SECTION 7.8 SUBORDINATION MAY NOT BE IMPAIRED.      No present or future holder of any Senior Indebtedness shall be prejudiced in the right to enforce subordination of the indebtedness constituting the Securities by any act or failure to act on the part of
the Company.      SECTION 7.9 DISTRIBUTION.      Upon any payment or distribution of assets of the Company referred to in this Article 7, the Trustee and the holders of Junior Subordinated Debentures shall be entitled to rely upon any order or decree
made by any court of competent jurisdiction or upon any certificate of the liquidating trustee or agent or other Person making any distribution to the Trustee or to the holders of Junior Subordinated Debentures for the purpose of ascertaining the
Persons entitled to participate in such distribution, the holders of the Senior Indebtedness and other Indebtedness of the Company, the amount thereof or payable thereon, the amount or amounts paid or distributed thereon and all other facts
pertinent thereto or to this Article 7.   
         32   

SECTION 7.10 AUTHORIZATION TO EFFECT SUBORDINATION.   
  Each holder of Junior Subordinated Debentures by his acceptance thereof authorizes and directs the Trustee on his behalf to take such
action as may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate the subordination as provided in this Article 7, and appoints the Trustee his attorney-in-fact for any and all such purposes.   
  ARTICLE 8      NOTICE
     SECTION 8.1 NOTICE BY THE COMPANY.      The Company shall give prompt written notice to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee of any fact known to the Company that would prohibit the making of any payment of monies to or by the Trustee in
respect of the Junior Subordinated Debentures pursuant to the provisions of Article 7 hereof; provided that failure to give such notice shall not affect the subordination of the Junior Subordinated Debentures to the Senior Indebtedness as provided
in Article 7 hereof. Notwithstanding any of the provisions of the Base Indenture and this Third Supplemental Indenture, the Trustee shall not be charged with knowledge of the existence of any facts that would prohibit the making of any payment of
monies to or by the Trustee in respect of the Junior Subordinated Debentures pursuant to the provisions of the Base Indenture; provided, however, that if the Trustee shall not have received the notice provided for in this Article 8 at least two
Business Days prior to the date upon which by the terms hereof any money may become payable for any purpose (including, without limitation, the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on any Junior Subordinated Debentures),
then, anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall have full power and authority to receive such money and to apply the same to the purposes for which they were received, and shall not be affected by any notice to the
contrary that may be received by it within two Business Days prior to such date.      ARTICLE 9   
  FORM OF JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURE      SECTION 9.1 FORM OF JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURE.      The Junior Subordinated
Debentures and the Trustee s Certificate of Authentication to be endorsed thereon are to be substantially in the following forms:      (FORM OF FACE OF DEBENTURE)      [If the Debenture is to be a Global Security, insert
  THIS DEBENTURE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE CLEARING AGENCY OR A NOMINEE OF THE CLEARING AGENCY. THIS DEBENTURE IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR DEBENTURES REGISTERED
IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE CLEARING AGENCY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS DEBENTURE (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS DEBENTURE AS A WHOLE BY THE CLEARING   
         33   

AGENCY TO A NOMINEE OF THE CLEARING AGENCY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE CLEARING AGENCY TO THE CLEARING AGENCY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE CLEARING AGENCY) MAY BE REGISTERED EXCEPT IN LIMITED
CIRCUMSTANCES.      UNLESS THIS DEBENTURE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER
STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT AND ANY DEBENTURE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE   CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE
DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE   CO., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY A PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE   CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.]
  
         34   

METLIFE, INC.      Global Certificate initially representing   
  $            aggregate principal amount of   
  6.40% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2066   

No. R-            
    CUSIP No.                   
  This global certificate (the  Global Certificate ) is one of the Global Certificates in respect of a duly authorized issue of
6.40% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Debentures due 2066 (the  Junior Subordinated Debentures ) of MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called the  Company,  which term includes any successor corporation under the
Indenture, as defined on the reverse hereof). For value received, the Company hereby promises to pay to Cede   Co., or its registered assigns, on December 15, 2066 (the  Final Maturity Date ) (or on the date of redemption by the
Company prior to the Final Maturity Date, as provided for in the Indenture) the amount of principal of the Junior Subordinated Debentures represented by this Global Certificate from time to time and to pay interest from time to time on the Junior
Subordinated Debentures represented by this Global Certificate from December 21, 2006 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for as specified on the reverse hereof and in the Indenture;
provided, however, that the amount of principal of, and all amounts and unpaid interest on, the Junior Subordinated Debentures represented by this Global Certificate shall be payable in full on December 15, 2036 or any subsequent Interest
Payment Date to the extent, and subject to the conditions, set forth on the reverse hereof and in the Indenture. If any date fixed for redemption or repayment of the Junior Subordinated Debentures represented by this Global Certificate is not a
Business Day, then payment of the principal amount of the redemption price or repayment of the principal amount of the Junior Subordinated Debentures represented by this Global Certificate shall be made on the next day that is a Business day,
without any interest or other payment as a result of such delay.      This Junior Subordinated Debenture shall not be entitled to
any benefit under the Indenture, be valid or become obligatory for any purpose, until the Certificate of Authentication hereon shall have been executed by the Trustee.      All terms used in this Global Certificate that are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.   
  The provisions of the Junior Subordinated Debentures are continued on the reverse side hereof and such continued provisions shall for all
purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this
instrument to be executed.      Dated:
                    , 2006   
         35   

METLIFE, INC.   

By:   

Name:    

Title:    

36   

CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION   
  This is one of the Debentures referred to in the within mentioned Indenture.   

THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,     as Trustee    

By:  

Authorized Officer   
 
  Dated:                    , 2006   
         37   

[REVERSE OF DEBENTURE]   
  This Global Certificate is one of the certificates representing a duly authorized issue of Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2066 (the
 Junior Subordinated Debentures ), issued under a Subordinated Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005 (herein called the  Base Indenture ), between the Company and the Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in
interest to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association) (herein called the  Trustee,  which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), as supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 21,
2006 (the  Third Supplemental Indenture  together with the Base Indenture, the  Indenture ), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights,
limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the Company and the holders of the Junior Subordinated Debentures, and of the terms upon which the Junior Subordinated Debentures are, and are to be, authenticated and
delivered.      All terms used in this Junior Subordinated Debenture that are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings
assigned to them in the Indenture.      Interest on the Junior Subordinated Debentures shall accrue (i) from the date of
initial issuance to but excluding December 15, 2036, or earlier redemption, at an annual rate equal to 6.40%, payable semi-annually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing on June 15, 2007 and (ii) solely
in the event that the Junior Subordinated Debentures are not repaid or otherwise redeemed on or before the scheduled Redemption Date (as defined below) from and including December 15, 2036 to but excluding the Final Maturity Date or earlier
Maturity Date, at an annual rate equal to Three-Month LIBOR plus a margin equal to 2.205%, payable quarterly in arrears on March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15 of each year.   
  Notwithstanding the provisions of Article III of the Base Indenture, the Company shall have the right to redeem the Junior Subordinated
Debentures, in whole or in part, at any time on or after December 15, 2031, at a cash redemption price equal to the Par Redemption Amount; provided that, if the Junior Subordinated Debentures are not redeemed in whole, at least $50 million
aggregate principal amount of the Junior Subordinated Debentures (excluding any Junior Subordinated Debentures held by the Company or any of its Affiliates), must remain outstanding after giving effect to such redemption.   
  The Company shall have the right to redeem the Junior Subordinated Debentures, in whole or in part, at any time prior to
December 15, 2031, in cases not involving a Tax Event or Rating Agency Event, at a cash redemption price equal to the greater of (i) the Par Redemption Amount and (ii) the Make-Whole Redemption Amount; provided that if the Junior
Subordinated Debentures are not redeemed in whole, at least $50 million aggregate principal amount of the Junior Subordinated Debentures (excluding any Junior Subordinated Debentures held by the Company or any of its Affiliates) must remain
outstanding after giving effect to such redemption.      At any time prior to December 15, 2031, the Company shall have the
right to redeem the Junior Subordinated Debentures in whole, but not in part, and only following the   
         38   

occurrence of a Tax Event or a Rating Agency Event, at a cash redemption price equal to the greater of (i) the Par Redemption Amount and (ii) the Special Event Make-Whole Redemption
Amount. With respect to any redemption of Junior Subordinated Debentures as a result of a Tax Event or Rating Agency Event, the date fixed for such redemption will be within 180 days following the occurrence of such Tax Event or a Rating Agency
Event, as applicable; provided, however, that if at that time the Company is able to eliminate, within the 180-day period, the Tax Event or Rating Agency Event by taking some ministerial action (such as making an election or filing a form) that has
no adverse effect on the Company or the holders of the Junior Subordinated Debentures, the Company shall pursue such action in lieu of redemption. The Company will have no right or obligation to redeem the Junior Subordinated Debentures while
pursuing such measure.      Any redemption shall be made upon not less than 15 days and no more than 30 days  notice before
the date fixed for redemption to the registered holders of the Junior Subordinated Debentures. If the Junior Subordinated Debentures are to be redeemed in part,(a) the Company shall give the Trustee not less than 15 days and no more than 30
days notice in advance of the date fixed for redemption and (b) the Junior Subordinated Debentures shall be redeemed pro rata or by lot or by any other method utilized by the Trustee that the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate in its
discretion. Any notice mailed as provided herein shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder of the Junior Subordinated Debentures receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any
defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of the Junior Subordinated Debentures designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other Junior Subordinated Debentures. Each such
notice given to a holder shall state: (i) the Redemption Date; (ii) the redemption price; (iii) that the Junior Subordinated Debentures are being redeemed pursuant to the Indenture or the terms of the Junior Subordinated Debentures
together with the facts permitting such redemption; (iv) if less than all Outstanding Junior Subordinated Debentures are to be redeemed, the identification (and, in the case of partial redemption, the principal amounts) of the particular Junior
Subordinated Debentures to be redeemed; (v) the place or places where the Junior Subordinated Debentures are to be redeemed; and (vi) that interest on the Junior Subordinated Debentures to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the Redemption
Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Junior Subordinated Debentures are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Junior Subordinated
Debentures at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. The redemption price shall be paid prior to 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the date of such redemption or at such earlier time on such date as the Company determines and
specifies in the notice of redemption. The Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent an amount of money sufficient to pay the redemption price of such Junior Subordinated Debentures or any portion thereof which are to be redeemed
on Redemption Date.      Subject to the limitations contained in Section 3.2 of the Third Supplemental Indenture, the Company
has agreed to repay the principal amount of the Junior Subordinated Debentures, together with accrued and unpaid interest, on December 15, 2036 (the  Scheduled Redemption Date ). The Company has agreed to repay the Junior Subordinated
Debentures on the Scheduled Redemption Date only to the extent that the Company has raised sufficient net proceeds during the applicable QCS Proceeds Collection Period from the issuance of Qualifying   
         39   

Capital Securities. The Company will use QCS Commercially Reasonable Efforts to raise sufficient net proceeds during the applicable QCS Proceeds Collection Period from the issuance of Qualifying
Capital Securities to permit repayment of the Junior Subordinated Debentures in full on the Scheduled Redemption Date. If the Company has not raised sufficient net proceeds during the applicable QCS Proceeds Collection Period to permit repayment of
all principal and accrued and unpaid interest, including any Compounded Interest, on the Junior Subordinated Debentures on the Scheduled Redemption Date, the Company shall continue to use QCS Commercially Reasonable Efforts to raise sufficient net
proceeds during the applicable QCS Proceeds Collection Period from the issuance of Qualifying Capital Securities to permit repayment of the Junior Subordinated Debentures on the next Interest Payment Date, and on each Interest Payment Date
thereafter, until the Junior Subordinated Debentures are paid in full.      If any notice of redemption has been given as provided
herein, the Junior Subordinated Debentures or portion of the Junior Subordinated Debentures with respect to which such notice has been given shall become due and payable on the date and at the place or places stated in such notice at the applicable
redemption price. From and after such date, the Junior Subordinated Debentures to be redeemed shall cease to bear interest. If any Junior Subordinated Debentures called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the
redemption price shall, until paid, bear interest from the date set for redemption until the date redemption actually occurs at the then applicable interest rate on the Junior Subordinated Debentures. On presentation and surrender of certificates
representing such Junior Subordinated Debentures at a place of payment specified, in said notice the said Junior Subordinated Debentures or the specified portions thereof shall be paid and redeemed by the Company at the applicable redemption price.
Upon presentation of certificates representing Junior Subordinated Debentures to be redeemed in part only, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the holder thereof, at the expense of the Company, a new
certificate or certificates representing Junior Subordinated Debentures, of authorized denominations, in aggregate principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the Junior Subordinated Debentures represented by the certificate(s) so presented
and having the same original issue date, Final Maturity Date and terms. If a Global Security is so surrendered, such new Junior Subordinated Debentures will also be a new Global Security.   
  The Junior Subordinated Debentures shall not be entitled to the benefit of any sinking fund.   
  If an Event of Default with respect to the Junior Subordinated Debentures shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Junior
Subordinated Debentures may be declared due and payable in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the Indenture.      The Base Indenture contains provisions for satisfaction, discharge and defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Junior Subordinated Debenture upon compliance by the Company with certain
conditions set forth in the Indenture.      The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company and the Trustee, with the
consent of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Junior Subordinated Debentures at the time Outstanding (as defined in the Indenture) to execute   
         40   

supplemental indentures for the purpose of, among other things, adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Indenture or of any supplemental
indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the holders of the Junior Subordinated Debentures; provided, however, that, among other things, no such supplemental indenture shall (i) reduce the principal amount thereof, or reduce the
rate or extend the time of payment of interest thereon without the consent of the holder of each Junior Subordinated Debenture so affected, or (ii) reduce the aforesaid percentage of Junior Subordinated Debentures, the holders of which are
required to consent to any such supplemental indenture, without the consent of the holders of each Junior Subordinated Debenture then Outstanding and affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the holders of a majority in
aggregate principal amount of the Junior Subordinated Debentures at the time Outstanding affected thereby, on behalf of all of the holders of the Junior Subordinated Debentures, to waive a default or Event of Default with respect to the Junior
Subordinated Debentures, and its consequences, except a default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of or interest on any of the Junior Subordinated Debentures or a default in respect of a provision that under Article IX of the Base
Indenture cannot be amended without the consent of each holder affected thereby. Any such consent or waiver by the registered holder of this Junior Subordinated Debenture (unless revoked as provided in the Indenture) shall be conclusive and binding
upon such holder and upon all future holders and owners of this Junior Subordinated Debenture and of any Junior Subordinated Debenture issued in exchange for or in place hereof (whether by registration of transfer or otherwise) irrespective of
whether or not any notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Junior Subordinated Debenture.      So long as (i) no
Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and (ii) no Trigger Event has occurred and the related Trigger Period is continuing, the Company may elect to defer one or more payments of interest on such Junior Subordinated Debentures (an
 Optional Deferral  and any such deferred interest,  Optionally Deferred Interest ) at any time during the Term of the Junior Subordinated Debentures, and from time to time, for up to ten years (which may include a combination of
semi-annual and quarterly Interest Payment Periods) without giving rise to an Event of Default and acceleration under the terms of the Indenture, provided, however, that (notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein) the Company may not defer any
payment of interest past the Maturity Date and no Optional Deferral Period (as defined below) may end on a date other than on an Interest Payment Date. During any Optional Deferral and for so long as any Optionally Deferred Interest remains
outstanding (an  Optional Deferral Period ), the Company may pay Optionally Deferred Interest that was deferred through the Fifth Deferral Anniversary out of any source of funds. Optionally Deferred Interest will continue to accrue and
compound on each Interest Payment Date, to the extent permitted by applicable law, at the then applicable interest rate on the Junior Subordinated Debentures. If Optional Deferral has continued beyond the Fifth Deferral Anniversary, then the
provisions of Section 6.2 of the Third Supplemental Indenture will apply, and the Company must (except on the Final Maturity Date or upon an acceleration of the Junior Subordinated Debentures following an Event of Default (an  Acceleration
Date ) with respect to the Junior Subordinated Debentures) make Commercially Reasonable Efforts to sell Common Stock (unless such interest has been (or is being) paid from the proceeds of Qualifying Warrants) to satisfy its obligation to pay
Optionally Deferred Interest on the Junior Subordinated Debentures and may pay such Optionally Deferred Interest only out of the net proceeds from the sale of Qualifying APM Securities. Additionally, during any Optional Deferral Period, the
restrictions on payment by the Company of dividends and other   
         41   

distributions on capital stock pursuant to Section 6.1 of the Third Supplemental Indenture will apply. Subject to the proviso in the first sentence of this paragraph, there is no limit on
the number of Optional Deferral Periods that the Company may begin.      The Company shall provide a notice of any Optional
Deferral to the Trustee and the holders of the Junior Subordinated Debentures no more than 30 and no fewer than 15 days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date. Subject to Section 4.2(b) of the Third Supplemental Indenture, a notice of
Optional Deferral, once given, shall be irrevocable and the deferral of payments on the related Interest Payment Date shall be considered an Optional Deferral, unless a Trigger Event has occurred as of the 30th day prior to such Interest Payment
Date.      If and to the extent that a Trigger Event has occurred and a Trigger Period caused thereby is continuing as of the 30th
day prior to an Interest Payment Date, and regardless of any notice of Optional Deferral that has been previously delivered (except on the Final Maturity Date or Acceleration Date with respect to the Junior Subordinated Debentures) (i) the
Company may pay interest on the Junior Subordinated Debentures (other than any interest that had accrued during an Optional Deferral Period through the Fifth Deferral Anniversary thereof and prior to the occurrence of a Trigger Event which may
continue to be deferred to the extent provided herein or be paid out of any source of funds) only to the extent that such interest is paid through the Alternative Payment Mechanism and (ii) the Company must make Commercial Reasonable Efforts to sell
Common Stock, the sale of which will provide sufficient cash proceeds to pay any amounts due to the holders of the Junior Subordinated Debentures in satisfaction of all accrued and unpaid interest, together with any Compounded Interest, to the
extent permitted by law (unless such interest has been (or is being) paid from the proceeds of Qualifying Warrants). Any interest that is accrued and unpaid during a Trigger Period will continue to accrue and compound on each Interest Payment Date,
to the extent permitted by applicable law, at the then applicable interest rate on the Junior Subordinated Debentures.      Not
earlier than the 15th nor later than the 30th day prior to each Interest Payment Date during a Trigger Period, the Company shall give written notice of the continuance of such Trigger Period to the Trustee and holders of the Junior Subordinated
Debentures. Such notice shall, depending on which condition is relied upon in determining that a Trigger Event has occurred, set forth either (x) the Covered Insurance Subsidiaries  Risk-Based Capital Ratio or (y) the Trailing Four
Quarters Consolidated Net Income Amount and the Adjusted Stockholders  Equity Amount, as applicable, and the extent to which these amounts must increase in order for payments of interest from sources other than the Alternative Payment Mechanism
to resume.      In the event that a Trigger Period is no longer continuing and at the termination of the Trigger Period there is
no unpaid interest from an Optional Deferral Period that had continued beyond the Fifth Deferral Anniversary, the Company may pay subsequent interest in cash from any source of funds. However, any unpaid interest, that accrued during the continuance
of a Trigger Period or an Optional Deferral Period that continued beyond the Fifth Deferral Anniversary may only be satisfied in accordance with the provisions of the Alternative Payment Mechanism, except that on the Final Maturity Date and the
Acceleration Date of the Junior Subordinated Debentures, the Company may pay any accrued and unpaid interest without regard to the source of funds. Any accrued and unpaid interest will in all events be due and payable upon the Maturity Date, except
for Foregone Interest to the extent provided for in Article 11 of the Third Supplemental Indenture.   
         42   

Each holder of a Junior Subordinated Debenture, by such holder s acceptance thereof,
agrees that upon any payment or distribution of assets to creditors of the Company upon any bankruptcy, insolvency or receivership proceeding with respect to the Company, and prior to the Maturity Date or redemption of such Junior Subordinated
Debentures, such holder shall not have a claim for, and thus no right to receive, interest that is unpaid due to certain consequences of a Trigger Event (including Compounded Interest) and has not been settled through the application of the
Alternative Payment Mechanism, to the extent that the aggregate amount thereof (including Compounded Interest) exceeds 25% of the then Outstanding principal amount of such Junior Subordinated Debenture in respect of which such interest was deferred.
For the avoidance of doubt, this limitation on      claims for unpaid interest does not apply to Optionally Deferred Interest, and holders will
have a full claim for, and right to receive, such Optionally Deferred Interest.      Except as provided in the immediately
preceding paragraph and Article 11 of the Third Supplemental Indenture, no reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Junior Subordinated Debenture or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is
absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Junior Subordinated Debenture at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.   
  As provided in the Base Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of Junior Subordinated Debentures is
registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of Junior Subordinated Debentures for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company maintained under Section 4.02 of the Base Indenture duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a
written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Securities Registrar duly executed by, the holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Junior Subordinated Debentures of this
series, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may
require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.      Prior to
due presentment of Junior Subordinated Debentures for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name Junior Subordinated Debentures are registered as the owner hereof
for all purposes, whether or not Junior Subordinated Debentures are overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.   
  The Junior Subordinated Debentures are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples
thereof. This Global Certificate is exchangeable for Junior Subordinated Debentures in definitive form only under certain limited circumstances set forth in the Base Indenture. As provided in the Base Indenture and subject to certain limitations
therein set forth, Junior Subordinated Debentures are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Junior Subordinated Debentures of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the holder surrendering the same.   
         43   

No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of or the interest on Junior
Subordinated Debentures, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect hereof, or based on or in respect of the Indenture, against any incorporator, shareholder, officer or director, past, present or future, as such, of the Company or of
any predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the
consideration for the issuance hereof, expressly waived and released.      The Company agrees, and by acquiring an interest in a
Junior Subordinated Debenture each beneficial owner of a Junior Subordinated Debenture agrees, to treat the Junior Subordinated Debentures as indebtedness for U.S. federal income tax purposes.   
  THE INDENTURE AND THE JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW
YORK APPLICABLE TO CONTRACTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED ENTIRELY WITHIN SUCH STATE.   
         44   

ARTICLE 10      ORIGINAL ISSUE OF JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES      SECTION 10.1 ORIGINAL ISSUE OF JUNIOR
SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES.      (a) Junior Subordinated Debentures in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed $1,250,000,000,
except as provided in Section 2.1(b) hereof, may, upon execution of this Third Supplemental Indenture, be executed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee for authentication, and the Trustee shall thereupon authenticate and deliver said
Junior Subordinated Debentures to or upon the written order of the Company, signed by its Chief Executive Officer, its President, or any Vice President (or more senior officer) and its Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, without any further action
by the Company.      (b) The Company shall file with the Trustee promptly at the end of each calendar year (i) a written
notice specifying the amount of original issue discount (including daily rates and accrual periods) accrued on Outstanding Securities as of the end of the year and (ii) such other specific information relating to such original issue discount as
may then be relevant under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.      ARTICLE 11   
  LIMITATION ON CLAIMS      SECTION
11.1 LIMITATION ON CLAIM FOR DEFERRED INTEREST DUE TO A TRIGGER EVENT IN BANKRUPTCY.      Each holder of a Junior Subordinated
Debenture, by such holder s acceptance thereof, agrees that upon any payment or distribution of assets to creditors of the Company upon any bankruptcy, insolvency or receivership proceeding with respect to the Company, and prior to the Maturity
Date or redemption of such Junior Subordinated Debentures, such holder shall not have a claim for, and thus no right to receive, interest that is unpaid due to certain consequences of a Trigger Event (including Compounded Interest) and has not been
settled through the application of the Alternative Payment Mechanism, to the extent that the aggregate amount thereof (including Compounded Interest) exceeds 25% of the then Outstanding principal amount of such Junior Subordinated Debenture in
respect of which such interest was deferred. Amounts to which the holders of the Junior Subordinated Debentures would have been entitled to receive hereunder, but for the operation of this Section 11.1, are referred to as  Foregone
Interest.  For the avoidance of doubt, this limitation on claims for unpaid interest does not apply to Optionally Deferred Interest, and holders will have a full claim for, and right to receive, such Optionally Deferred Interest.   
         45   

ARTICLE 12      DISCHARGE, DEFEASANCE AND COVENANT DEFEASANCE      The provisions of Article XIII of
the Base Indenture shall apply to the Junior Subordinated Debentures.      ARTICLE 13   
  MISCELLANEOUS      SECTION 13.1
RATIFICATION OF BASE INDENTURE; CONFLICTS.      The Base Indenture, as supplemented by this Third Supplemental Indenture, is in all
respects ratified and confirmed, and this Third Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Base Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided. To the extent permitted by applicable law and the Base Indenture, in the
event of any conflict between this Third Supplemental Indenture and the Base Indenture or the provisions set forth in the certificates of Junior Subordinated Debentures, as the case may be, this Third Supplemental Indenture shall control.
     SECTION 13.2 JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES UNAFFECTED BY OTHER SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES.   
  None of the Company s supplemental indentures to the Base Indenture entered into prior to the date hereof applies to the Junior
Subordinated Debentures. To the extent the terms of the Base Indenture are amended by any of such other supplemental indenture, no such amendment shall relate or apply to the Junior Subordinated Debentures. To the extent the terms of the Base
Indenture are amended as provided herein, no such amendment shall in any way affect the terms of any such other supplemental indenture or any other series of Securities. This Third Supplemental Indenture shall relate and apply solely to the Junior
Subordinated Debentures.      SECTION 13.2 TRUSTEE NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR RECITALS.   
  The recitals herein contained are made by the Company and not by the Trustee, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the
correctness thereof.      SECTION 13.4 TAX TREATMENT.      The Company agrees, and by acquiring an interest in a Junior Subordinated Debenture each beneficial owner of a Junior Subordinated Debenture agrees, to treat the Junior Subordinated Debentures as
indebtedness for U.S. federal income tax purposes.      SECTION 13.5 GOVERNING LAW.   
  This Third Supplemental Indenture and the Junior Subordinated Debentures will be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the
internal laws of the State of New York.   
         46   

SECTION 13.6 SEPARABILITY.      In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Third Supplemental Indenture or in the Junior Subordinated Debentures shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in
any respect, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions of this Third Supplemental Indenture or of the Junior Subordinated Debentures, but this Third Supplemental Indenture and the Junior Subordinated
Debentures shall be construed as if such invalid or illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein or therein.      SECTION
13.7 COUNTERPARTS.      This Third Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which shall be an
original; but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.      SECTION 13.8 CALCULATION AGENT AND PREMIUM
CALCULATION AGENT      Whether or not expressly provided herein or in the Base Indenture, every provision of this Third
Supplemental Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee, the Calculation Agent and the Premium Calculation Agent shall be subject to Article VII of the Base Indenture.   
         47   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Third Supplemental Indenture to be
duly executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, on the date or dates indicated in the acknowledgments and as of the day and year first above written.   

METLIFE, INC, as   
 
  Issuer   

By:  
     
    /s/ Anthony J. Williamson    

Name: Anthony J. Williamson   

Title: Senior Vice President and   

Treasurer   
 
   [SEAL]   
  Attested:       

By  
     
    : /s/ Gwenn L. Carr    

Name: Gwenn L. Carr   

Title: Senior Vice President and Secretary   

THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,  
  as Trustee    

By:  
     
    /s/ Lawrence M. Kusch    

Name: Lawrence M. Kusch   

Title: Assistant Vice President   

48   

</EX-4.45>

<EX-4.82>
 10
 d302570dex482.htm
 REPLACEMENT CAPITAL COVENANT

Replacement Capital Covenant 

Exhibit 4.82      REPLACEMENT CAPITAL COVENANT, dated as of December 21, 2006 (this  REPLACEMENT CAPITAL COVENANT ), by MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the
 CORPORATION ), in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder (as defined below).      RECITALS   
  (A) On the date hereof, the Corporation is issuing $1,250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 6.40% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior
Subordinated Debentures due 2066 (including any such junior subordinated debentures issued after the date hereof that may be consolidated and form a single series with such Junior Subordinated Debentures issued on the date hereof, the  JUNIOR
SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES ).      (B) This Replacement Capital Covenant is the  Replacement Capital Covenant 
referred to in the Prospectus Supplement, dated December 14, 2006, relating to the Junior Subordinated Debentures (together with the Prospectus, dated April 27, 2005 attached thereto, the  PROSPECTUS SUPPLEMENT ).   
  (C) The Corporation is entering into and disclosing the content of this Replacement Capital Covenant in the manner provided below with
the intent that the covenants provided for in this Replacement Capital Covenant be enforceable by each Covered Debtholder and that the Corporation be estopped from disregarding the covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant, in each case to the
fullest extent permitted by applicable law.      (D) The Corporation acknowledges that reliance by each Covered Debtholder upon
the covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant is reasonable and foreseeable by the Corporation and that, were the Corporation to disregard its covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant, each Covered Debtholder would have sustained an
injury as a result of its reliance on such covenants.      NOW, THEREFORE, the Corporation hereby covenants and agrees as follows
in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder.      SECTION 1. Definitions. Capitalized terms used in
this Replacement Capital Covenant (including the Recitals) have the respective meanings set forth in Schedule I hereto.      SECTION 2. Limitations on Repayment, Redemption and Purchase of Junior Subordinated Debentures. The Corporation hereby promises and covenants to and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder that the
Corporation shall not repay, redeem or purchase (for the avoidance of doubt, any reference in this Replacement Capital Covenant to any repayment of the Corporation s securities will be deemed to include a reference to defeasance of the

Corporation s obligations under the securities), and will cause its Subsidiaries not to, repay, redeem or purchase, as applicable, all or any part of the Junior Subordinated Debentures on or
before December 15, 2056, except to the extent that the principal amount repaid or the applicable redemption, repayment or purchase price does not exceed the sum of the following amounts:   
  (a) the Applicable Percentage of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds received by the Corporation and its
Subsidiaries since the most recent Measurement Date (without double counting proceeds received in any prior Measurement Period) from the sale of Common Stock and rights to acquire Common Stock to Persons other than the Corporation and its
Subsidiaries; plus      (b) the Applicable Percentage of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds received by the
Corporation and its Subsidiaries since the most recent Measurement Date (without double counting proceeds received in any prior Measurement Period) from the sale of Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, Debt Exchangeable for Equity and Qualifying
Capital Securities to Persons other than the Corporation and its Subsidiaries.      SECTION 3. Covered Debt.
(a) The Corporation represents and warrants that the Initial Covered Debt is Eligible Debt.      (b) On or
during the 30-day period immediately preceding any Redesignation Date with respect to the Covered Debt then in effect, the Corporation shall identify the series of Eligible Debt that will become the Covered Debt on and after such Redesignation Date
in accordance with the following procedures:      (i) the Corporation shall identify each series of its then
outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt;      (ii) if only one series of the
Corporation s then outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed is Eligible Debt, such series shall become the Covered Debt commencing on the related Redesignation Date;   
  (iii) if the Corporation has more than one outstanding series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is
Eligible Debt, then the Corporation shall identify the series that has the latest stated final maturity date as of the date the Corporation is applying the procedures in this Section 3(b) and such series shall become the Covered Debt on the
related Redesignation Date;      (iv) the series of outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is
determined to be Covered Debt pursuant to this Section 3(b) shall be the Covered Debt for purposes of this Replacement Capital Covenant for the period commencing on the related Redesignation Date and continuing to but not including the
Redesignation Date as of which a new series of outstanding long-term indebtedness is next determined to be the Covered Debt pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Section 3(b); and   
  (v) in connection with such identification of a new series of Covered Debt, the Corporation shall, as provided for in
Section 3(c), give a notice and file with the Commission a current report on Form 8-K including or incorporating by reference this Replacement Capital Covenant as an exhibit within the time frame provided for in such section.   
         2   

(c) Notice. In order to give effect to the intent of the Corporation
described in Recital C, the Corporation covenants that (i) simultaneously with the execution of this Replacement Capital Covenant or as soon as practicable after the date hereof, it shall (A) give notice to the Holders of the Initial
Covered Debt, in the manner provided in the indenture relating to the Initial Covered Debt, of this Replacement Capital Covenant and the rights granted to such Holders hereunder and (B) file a copy of this Replacement Capital Covenant with the
Commission as an exhibit to a current report on Form 8-K under the Exchange Act; (ii) so long as the Corporation is a reporting company under the Exchange Act, the Corporation will include in each annual report filed with the Commission on Form
10-K under the Exchange Act a description of the covenant set forth in Section 2 and identify the series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is Covered Debt as of the date such annual report on Form 10-K is filed with the Commission;
(iii) if a series of the Corporation s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed (A) becomes Covered Debt or (B) ceases to be Covered Debt pursuant to the procedures set forth in Section 3(b), the Corporation shall give notice of such
occurrence within 30 days to the holders of such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed in the manner provided for in the indenture, fiscal agency agreement or other instrument under which such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed was issued
and report such change in a current report on Form 8-K including or incorporating by reference this Replacement Capital Covenant, and in the Corporation s next quarterly report on Form 10-Q or annual report on Form 10-K, as applicable;
(iv) if, and only if, the Corporation ceases to be a reporting company under the Exchange Act, the Corporation shall post on its website the information otherwise required to be included in Exchange Act filings pursuant to clauses (ii) and
(iii) of this Section 3(c); and (v) promptly upon request by any Holder of Covered Debt, the Corporation shall provide such Holder with a conformed copy of this Replacement Capital Covenant.   
  SECTION 4. Termination, Amendment and Waiver. (a) The obligations of the Corporation pursuant to this Replacement
Capital Covenant shall remain in full force and effect until the earliest (the  TERMINATION DATE ) to occur of (i) December 15, 2056, or, if earlier, the date on which the Junior Subordinated Debentures are otherwise repaid,
redeemed or purchased in full, (ii) the date, if any, on which the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then-effective series of Covered Debt consent or agree in writing to the termination of this Replacement Capital Covenant and
the obligations of the Corporation hereunder, (iii) the date on which the Corporation ceases to have any series of outstanding Eligible Senior Debt or Eligible Subordinated Debt (in each case, without giving effect to the rating requirement in
clause (b) of the definition of each such term) and (iv) the date on which an event of default under the Subordinated Indenture resulting in an acceleration of the Junior Subordinated Debentures occurs. From and after the Termination Date,
the obligations of the Corporation pursuant to this Replacement Capital Covenant shall be of no further force and effect.      (b) This Replacement Capital Covenant may be amended or supplemented from time to time by a written instrument signed by the Corporation with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal
amount of the then-effective series of Covered Debt, provided that this Replacement Capital Covenant may be amended or supplemented from time to time by a written instrument signed only by the Corporation (and without the consent of any Holder of
the then-effective series of Covered Debt) if (i) the effect of such amendment or   
         3   

supplement is solely to impose additional restrictions on the types of securities qualifying as Replacement Capital Securities, and an officer of the Corporation has delivered to the Holders of
the then-effective series of Covered Debt in the manner provided for in the indenture, fiscal agency agreement or other instrument with respect to such Covered Debt a written certificate to that effect, (ii) such amendment or supplement is not
adverse to the Covered Debtholders and an officer of the Corporation has delivered to the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt in the manner provided for in the indenture, fiscal agency agreement or other instrument with respect to
such Covered Debt a written certificate stating that, in his or her determination, such amendment or supplement is not adverse to such Covered Debtholders, or (iii) such amendment or supplement eliminates Common Stock and/or Mandatorily
Convertible Preferred Stock as Replacement Capital Securities if, in the case of this clause (iii), the Corporation has been advised in writing by a nationally recognized independent accounting firm that there is more than an insubstantial risk that
the failure to do so would result in a reduction in the Corporation s earnings per share as calculated for financial reporting purposes.      (c) For purposes of Sections 4(a) and 4(b), the Holders whose consent or agreement is required to terminate, amend or supplement the obligations of the Corporation under this Replacement Capital Covenant
shall be the Holders of the then-effective Covered Debt as of a record date established by the Corporation that is not more than 30 days prior to the date on which the Corporation proposes that such termination, amendment or supplement becomes
effective.      SECTION 5. Miscellaneous. (a) THIS REPLACEMENT CAPITAL COVENANT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND
CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.      (b) This Replacement Capital Covenant shall be
binding upon the Corporation and its successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of the Covered Debtholders as they exist from time to time (it being understood and agreed by the Corporation that any Person who is a Covered Debtholder at
the time such Person acquires, holds or sells Covered Debt shall retain its status as a Covered Debtholder for so long as the series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money owned by such Person is Covered Debt and, if such Person initiates a
claim or proceeding to enforce its rights under this Replacement Capital Covenant after the Corporation has violated its covenants in Section 2 and before the series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed held by such Person is no longer
Covered Debt, such Person s rights under this Replacement Capital Covenant shall not terminate prior to a Termination Date solely by reason of such series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed no longer being Covered Debt).   
  (c) All demands, notices, requests and other communications to the Corporation under this Replacement Capital Covenant
shall be deemed to have been duly given and made if in writing and (i) if served by personal delivery upon the Corporation, on the day so delivered (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), (ii) if
delivered by registered post or certified mail, return receipt requested, or sent to the Corporation by a national or international courier service, on the date of receipt by the Corporation (or, if such date of receipt is not a Business Day, the
next succeeding Business Day), or (iii) if sent by telecopier, on the day telecopied, or if not a Business Day, the next   
         4   

succeeding Business Day, provided that the telecopy is promptly confirmed by telephone confirmation thereof, and in each case to the Corporation at the address set forth below, or at such other
address as the Corporation may thereafter notify to Covered Debtholders or post on its website as the address for notices under this Replacement Capital Covenant:      
  MetLife, Inc.      One MetLife Plaza      Long Island City, NY 11101   
  (d) If the Corporation is obligated to sell Replacement Capital Securities and apply the net proceeds to payments of
principal of or interest on any outstanding securities in addition to the Junior Subordinated Debentures, then on any date and for any period the amount of net proceeds received by the Corporation from those sales and available for such payments
shall be applied to the Junior Subordinated Debentures and those other securities having the same scheduled repayment date or scheduled redemption date as the Junior Subordinated Debentures pro rata in accordance with their respective outstanding
principal amounts and none of such net proceeds shall be applied to any other securities having a later scheduled repayment date or scheduled redemption date until the principal of and all accrued and unpaid interest on the Junior Subordinated
Debentures has been paid in full.   
         5   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Replacement Capital Covenant to be
executed by its duly authorized officer, as of the day and year first above written.        

METLIFE, INC.   

By:  
     
    /s/ Anthony J. Williamson    
 
  Name:  
     
  Anthony J. Williamson   
 
  Title:  
     
  Senior Vice President and Treasurer   
 
   [Signature page to the Replacement Capital Covenant]   

Schedule I      DEFINITIONS       ALTERNATIVE PAYMENT MECHANISM  means, with respect to any
securities or combination of securities (together in this definition,  such securities ), provisions in the related transaction documents requiring the Corporation to issue (or use commercially reasonable efforts to issue) one or more
types of APM Qualifying Securities raising eligible proceeds at least equal to the deferred Distributions on such securities and apply the proceeds to pay unpaid Distributions on such securities, commencing on the earlier of (x) the first
Distribution Date after commencement of a deferral period on which the Corporation pays current Distributions on such securities and (y) the fifth anniversary of the commencement of such deferral period, and that:   
  (a) define  eligible proceeds  to mean, for purposes of such Alternative Payment Mechanism, the net proceeds
(after underwriters  or placement agents  fees, commissions or discounts and other expenses relating to the issuance or sale of the relevant securities, where applicable, and including the fair market value of property received by the
Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries as consideration for such securities) that the Corporation has received during the 180 days prior to the related Distribution Date from the issuance of APM Qualifying Securities, up to the Preferred Cap (as
defined in paragraph (f) below) in the case of APM Qualifying Securities that are Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock;      (b) permit the Corporation to pay current Distributions on any Distribution Date out of any source of funds but (x) require the Corporation to pay deferred Distributions only out of eligible proceeds
and (y) prohibit the Corporation from paying deferred Distributions out of any source of funds other than eligible proceeds, unless (if the Corporation elects to so provide in the terms of such securities) an Applicable Governmental Authority
directs otherwise;      (c) if deferral of Distributions continues for more than one year (unless the Corporation
elects to provide for a shorter period in the terms of such securities), require the Corporation not to repay, redeem or purchase any securities of the Corporation that on a bankruptcy or liquidation of the Corporation rank pari passu with or junior
to such securities until at least one year after all deferred Distributions have been paid;      (d)
notwithstanding the foregoing provision, if an Applicable Governmental Authority disapproves the issuer s sale of APM Qualifying Securities, may (if the Corporation elects to so provide in the terms of such securities) permit the Corporation to
pay deferred Distributions from any source without a breach of its obligations under the transaction documents;   
  (e) if an Applicable Governmental Authority does not disapprove the Corporation s issuance and sale of APM Qualifying
Securities but disapproves the use of the proceeds thereof to pay deferred Distributions, may (if the Corporation elects to so provide in the terms of such securities) permit the Corporation to use such proceeds for other purposes and to continue to
defer Distributions without a breach of its obligations under the transaction documents; and   

(f) limit the obligation of the Corporation to issue (or use commercially
reasonable efforts to issue) APM Qualifying Securities up to:      (i) in the case of APM Qualifying Securities
that are Common Stock or rights to purchase Common Stock, an amount from the issuance thereof pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism (including at any point in time from all prior issuances thereof pursuant to the Alternative Payment
Mechanism) with respect to deferred Distributions attributable to the first five years of any deferral period equal to 2% of the product of the average of the current stock market prices of the Common Stock on the ten consecutive trading days ending
on the fourth trading day immediately preceding the date of issuance multiplied by the total number of issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock as of the date of the Corporation s most recent publicly available consolidated financial
statements (the  COMMON CAP ), provided (and it being understood) that the Common Cap shall cease to apply to such deferral period by a date (as specified in the related transaction documents) which shall be not later than the ninth
anniversary of the commencement of such deferral period; and      (ii) in the case of APM Qualifying Securities
that are Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, an amount from the issuance thereof pursuant to the related Alternative Payment Mechanism (including at any point in time from all prior issuances thereof pursuant to such Alternative
Payment Mechanism) equal to 25% of the initial principal or stated amount of the securities that are the subject of the related Alternative Payment Mechanism (the  PREFERRED CAP    
  (iii) provided (and it being understood) that:   
  (A) the Corporation shall not be obligated to issue (or use commercially reasonable efforts to issue) APM Qualifying
Securities for so long as a Market Disruption Event has occurred and is continuing;      (B) if, due to a Market
Disruption Event or otherwise, the Corporation is able to raise and apply some, but not all, of the eligible proceeds necessary to pay all deferred Distributions on any Distribution Date, the Corporation will apply any available eligible proceeds to
pay accrued and unpaid Distributions on the applicable Distribution Date in chronological order subject to the Common Cap and Preferred Cap, as applicable; and      (C) if the Corporation has outstanding more than one class or series of securities under which it is obligated to sell a type of APM Qualifying Securities and apply some part of the proceeds to the
payment of deferred Distributions, then on any   
         2   

date and for any period the amount of net proceeds received by the Corporation from those sales and available for payment of deferred Distributions on such securities shall be applied to such
securities on a pro rata basis in proportion to the total amounts that are due on such securities, or on such other basis as an Applicable Governmental Authority may approve.       APM QUALIFYING SECURITIES  means, with respect to an Alternative Payment Mechanism, one or more of the following (as designated in the transaction documents for the Qualifying Capital
Securities that include an Alternative Payment Mechanism or Debt Exchangeable for Equity):       

(a)  
  Common Stock;         

(b)  
  rights to purchase Common Stock; or         

(c)  
  Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock;        provided (and it being understood) that if the APM Qualifying Securities for any Alternative Payment Mechanism include both Common Stock and rights to purchase Common Stock, such Alternative Payment
Mechanism may permit, but need not require, the Corporation to issue rights to purchase Common Stock.       APPLICABLE
GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITY  means any regulatory body, administrative agency, or governmental body having jurisdiction over the Corporation or any Subsidiary thereof, including, without limitation, any insurance regulatory authority and the Federal
Reserve Board.       APPLICABLE PERCENTAGE  means:   
  (a) in the case of any Common Stock or rights to acquire Common Stock, 100 divided by (i) 75% with respect to any
repayment, redemption or purchase prior to December 15, 2036, (ii) 50% with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase on or after December 15, 2036 and prior to December 15, 2046 and (iii) 25% with respect to any
repayment, redemption or purchase on or after December 15, 2046 (for example, prior to December 15, 2036, the Applicable Percentage in the case of such securities will be 133.33%);   
  (b) in the case of any Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock or Debt Exchangeable for Equity, 75 divided by (i) 75%
with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase prior to December 15, 2036, (ii) 50% with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase on or after December 15, 2036 and prior to December 15, 2046 and (iii) 25% with
respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase on or after December 15, 2046 (for example, on or after December 15, 2036 and prior to December 15, 2046, the Applicable Percentage in the case of such securities will be 150%);
     (c) in the case of any Qualifying Capital Securities described in clause (a) of the definition of that
term, 75 divided by (i) 75% with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase prior to December 15, 2036, (ii) 50% with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase on or after December 15, 2036 and prior to December 15,
2046 and (iii) 25% with   
         3   

respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase on or after December 15, 2046 (for example, after December 15, 2046, the Applicable Percentage in the case of such securities will be
300%);      (d) in the case of any Qualifying Capital Securities described in clause (b) of the definition of
that term, 50 divided by (i) 50% with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase on or after December 15, 2036 and prior to December 15, 2046, and (ii) 25% with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase on or after
December 15, 2046 (for example, after December 15, 2046, the Applicable Percentage in the case of such securities will be 200%); and      (e) in the case of any Qualifying Capital Securities described in clause (c) of the definition of that term, 100%.       BUSINESS DAY  means each day other than (a) a Saturday or Sunday or (b) a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or required by law or executive
order to remain closed, and, on or after December 15, 2036, a day that is not a London business day. A  LONDON BUSINESS DAY  is any day on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
      COMMISSION  means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.   
   COMMON STOCK  means common stock of the Corporation and rights to acquire common stock issued pursuant to any dividend
reinvestment plan and employee benefit plans of the Corporation (including treasury shares of common stock).   
   CORPORATION  has the meaning specified in the introduction to this instrument.   
   COVERED DEBT  means (a) at the date of this Replacement Capital Covenant and continuing to but not including the first
Redesignation Date, the Initial Covered Debt and (b) thereafter, commencing with each Redesignation Date and continuing to but not including the next succeeding Redesignation Date, the Eligible Debt identified pursuant to Section 3(b) as
the Covered Debt for such period.       COVERED DEBTHOLDER  means each Person (whether a Holder or a beneficial owner
holding through a participant in a clearing agency) that buys, holds or sells long-term indebtedness for money borrowed of the Corporation during the period that such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed is Covered Debt.   
   DEBT EXCHANGEABLE FOR EQUITY  means a security or combination of securities (together in this definition,  such
securities ) that:      (a) gives the holder a beneficial interest in (i) subordinated debt securities of
the Corporation that include a provision requiring the Corporation to issue (or use commercially reasonable efforts to issue) one or more types of APM Qualifying Securities raising proceeds at least equal to the deferred Distributions on such
subordinated debt securities commencing not later than two years after initial issuance of such securities and that are the most junior subordinated debt of the Corporation (or rank pari passu with the most junior subordinated
  
         4   

debt of the Corporation) (in this definition,  subordinated debt  of the Corporation) and (ii) a fractional interest in a stock purchase contract for a share of non-cumulative perpetual
preferred stock of the Corporation that ranks pari passu with or junior to all other preferred stock of the Corporation (in this definition,  preferred stock  of the Corporation);   
  (b) provides that the investors directly or indirectly grant to the Corporation a security interest in such subordinated
debt securities and their proceeds (including any substitute collateral permitted under the transaction documents) to secure the investors  direct or indirect obligation to purchase preferred stock of the Corporation pursuant to such stock
purchase contracts;      (c) includes a remarketing feature pursuant to which the subordinated debt of the
Corporation is remarketed to new investors commencing not later than the first Distribution Date that is at least five years after the date of issuance of securities or earlier in the event of an early settlement event based on (i) the capital
ratios of the Corporation as anticipated by any Applicable Governmental Authority or (ii) one or more financial tests set forth in the terms of such securities or the forward purchase contract or similar agreement;   
  (d) provides for the proceeds raised in the remarketing to be used to purchase preferred stock of the Corporation under
the stock purchase contracts and, if there has not been a successful remarketing by the first Distribution Date that is six years after the date of issuance of such securities, provides that the stock purchase contracts will be settled by the
Corporation foreclosing on its subordinated debt securities or other collateral directly or indirectly pledged by investors in the Debt Exchangeable for Equity;      (e) includes a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant that will apply to such securities and to the preferred stock of the Corporation, and will not
include Debt Exchangeable for Equity as a replacement capital security; and      (f) after the issuance of such
preferred stock of the Corporation, provides the holders of such securities with a beneficial interest in such preferred stock of the Corporation.       DISTRIBUTION DATE  means, as to any securities or combination of securities, the dates on which periodic Distributions on such securities are scheduled to be made.   
   DISTRIBUTION PERIOD  means, as to any securities or combination of securities, each period from and including the later of the
issue date and a Distribution Date for such securities to but excluding the next succeeding Distribution Date for such securities.       DISTRIBUTIONS  means, as to a security or combination of securities, dividends, interest payments or other income distributions to the holders thereof that are not Subsidiaries of the
Corporation.       ELIGIBLE DEBT  means, at any time, Eligible Subordinated Debt or, if no Eligible Subordinated Debt is
then outstanding, Eligible Senior Debt.   
         5   

ELIGIBLE SENIOR DEBT  means, at any time in respect of any issuer, each series of
outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed of such issuer that (a) upon a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the issuer, ranks most senior among the issuer s then outstanding classes of indebtedness for money
borrowed, (b) is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO (provided that this clause (b) shall apply on a Redesignation Date only if on such date the issuer has outstanding senior long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that satisfies the
requirements of clauses (a), (c) and (d) that is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO), (c) has an outstanding principal amount of not less than $100,000,000, and (d) was issued through or with the assistance of a commercial or investment
banking firm or firms acting as underwriters, initial purchasers or placement or distribution agents. For purposes of this definition as applied to securities with a CUSIP number, each issuance of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that has
(or, if such indebtedness is held by a trust or other intermediate entity established directly or indirectly by the issuer, the securities of such intermediate entity that have) a separate CUSIP number shall be deemed to be a series of the
issuer s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is separate from each other series of such indebtedness.   
   ELIGIBLE SUBORDINATED DEBT  means, at any time in respect of any issuer, each series of the issuer s then outstanding
long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that (a) upon a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the issuer, ranks subordinate to the issuer s then outstanding series of indebtedness for money borrowed that ranks most senior, (b)
is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO (provided that this clause (b) shall apply on a Redesignation Date only if on such date the issuer has outstanding subordinated long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that satisfies the requirements
in clauses (a), (c) and (d) that is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO), (c) has an outstanding principal amount of not less than $100,000,000, and (d) was issued through or with the assistance of a commercial or investment banking firm or
firms acting as underwriters, initial purchasers or placement or distribution agents. For purposes of this definition as applied to securities with a CUSIP number, each issuance of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that has (or, if such
indebtedness is held by a trust or other intermediate entity established directly or indirectly by the issuer, the securities of such intermediate entity that have) a separate CUSIP number shall be deemed to be a series of the issuer s
long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is separate from each other series of such indebtedness.       EXCHANGE
ACT  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.       HOLDER  means, as to the Covered Debt then in
effect, each holder of such Covered Debt as reflected on the securities register maintained by or on behalf of the Corporation with respect to such Covered Debt.       INITIAL COVERED DEBT  means the Corporation s 5.70% Senior Notes due 2035.       INTENT-BASED REPLACEMENT DISCLOSURE  means, as to any security or combination of securities (together in this definition,  securities ), that the Corporation has publicly stated its
intention, either in the prospectus or other offering document under which such securities were initially offered for sale or in filings with the Commission made by the Corporation under the Exchange Act prior to or contemporaneously with the
issuance of such securities, that the   
         6   

Corporation, to the extent the securities provide the Corporation with equity credit, will repay, redeem or purchase such securities only with the proceeds of replacement capital securities that
have terms and provisions at the time of repayment, redemption or purchase that are as or more equity-like than the securities then being repaid, redeemed or purchased, raised within 180 days prior to the applicable repayments, redemption or
purchase date.       JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES  has the meaning specified in Recital A.   
   MANDATORILY CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK  means cumulative preferred stock with (a) no prepayment obligation on the part of the
issuer thereof, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise, and (b) a requirement that such cumulative preferred stock convert into common stock within three years from the date of its issuance at a conversion ratio within a range
established at the time of issuance of such cumulative preferred stock.       MANDATORY TRIGGER PROVISION  means, as to
any security or combination of securities (together in this definition,  securities ), provisions in the terms thereof or of the related transaction agreements that (a) require or, at its option in the case of non-cumulative perpetual
preferred stock, permit the issuer of such securities to make payment of Distributions on such securities only pursuant to the issue and sale of APM Qualifying Securities, within no more than two years of a failure to satisfy one or more financial
tests set forth in the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements, in an amount such that the net proceeds of such sale are at least equal to the amount of unpaid Distributions on such securities (including without limitation all
deferred and accumulated amounts) and in either case require the application of the net proceeds of such sale to pay such unpaid Distributions, provided that if the APM Qualifying Securities issued and sold are Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual
Preferred Stock, the amount of the net proceeds of Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock which the issuer may apply to pay such Distributions pursuant to such provision may not exceed 25% of the initial liquidation or principal amount
of such securities, (b) if the APM Qualifying Securities are Common Stock or rights to acquire Common Stock, prohibit the issuer from repurchasing any Common Stock prior to the date that is six months after the issuer applies the net proceeds of the
sales described in clause (a) to pay such unpaid Distributions, (c) if the APM Qualifying Securities are warrants to purchase Common Stock, prohibit the issuer from issuing such warrants and using the proceeds therefrom to pay unpaid Distributions
if the total number of shares of the issuer s Common Stock underlying all warrants issued as APM Qualifying Securities during the life of the security would be in excess of 15% of the total number of the issuer s issued and outstanding
shares of Common Stock as of the date of any proposed issuance of warrants as APM Qualifying Securities, and (d) upon any liquidation, dissolution, winding up, reorganization or in connection with any insolvency, receivership or proceeding under any
bankruptcy law with respect to the Corporation, limit the claim of the holders of such securities (other than non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock) to Distributions that accumulate during a period in which the Corporation fails to satisfy one or
more financial tests set forth in the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements to (x) 25% of the principal amount of such securities then outstanding in the case of securities not permitting the issuance and sale pursuant to the
provisions described in clause (a) above of securities other than Common Stock or rights to acquire Common Stock or (y) two years of accumulated and unpaid Distributions (including compounded amounts thereon) in all other cases. No remedy other than
Permitted Remedies may arise by the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements in favor of the holders of   
         7   

such securities as a result of the issuer s failure to pay Distributions because of the Mandatory Trigger Provision or as a result of the issuer s exercise of its right under an
Optional Deferral Provision until Distributions have been deferred for one or more Distribution Periods that total together at least ten years.       MARKET DISRUPTION EVENTS  means the occurrence or existence of any of the following events or sets of circumstances:   
  (a) trading in securities generally on any national securities exchange or over-the-counter market on which the Common
Stock and/or the Corporation s preferred stock is then listed or traded is suspended or the settlement of such trading generally is materially disrupted or minimum prices are established on any such exchange or such market by the Commission, by
such exchange or by any other regulatory body or governmental body having jurisdiction and the establishment of such minimum prices materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, and the issuance and sale of, the
Corporation s Common Stock and/or the Corporation s preferred stock;      (b) the Corporation was
required to obtain the consent or approval of its stockholders, a regulatory body or governmental authority to issue or sell APM Qualifying Securities and, after using commercially reasonable efforts to obtain such consent or approval, the
Corporation fails to obtain such consent or approval;      (c) a material disruption or banking moratorium occurs
or has been declared in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States;   
  (d) there shall have occurred such a material adverse change in general domestic or international economic, political or
financial conditions, including without limitation as a result of terrorist activities, or the effect of international conditions on the financial markets in the United States is such, as to make it, in the Corporation s judgment, impracticable
to proceed with the issuance of APM Qualifying Securities;      (e) an event occurs and is continuing as a result
of which the offering document for the offer and sale of APM Qualifying Securities would, in the reasonable judgment of the Corporation, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or
necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and either (i) the disclosure of that event at such time, in the judgment of the Corporation, would have a material adverse effect on the business of the Corporation or (ii) the disclosure
relates to a previously undisclosed proposed or pending material business transaction, and the Corporation has a bona fide reason for keeping the same confidential or its disclosure would impede the ability of the Corporation to consummate such
transaction, provided that no single suspension period contemplated by this paragraph (e) may exceed 90 consecutive days and multiple suspension periods contemplated by this paragraph (e) may not exceed an aggregate of 180 days in any 360-day
period; or      (f) the Corporation reasonably believes that the offering document for the offer and sale of APM
Qualifying Securities would not be in compliance with a rule or regulation of the Commission (for reasons other than those referred to in paragraph (e) above) and the   
         8   

Corporation is unable to comply with such rule or regulation or such compliance is impracticable, provided that no single suspension period contemplated by this paragraph (f) may exceed 90
consecutive days and multiple suspension periods contemplated by this paragraph (f) may not exceed an aggregate of 180 days in any 360-day period.      The definition of  Market Disruption Event  as used in any securities or combination of securities that constitute APM Qualifying Securities may include less than all of the paragraphs outlined
above, as determined by the Corporation at the time of issuance of such securities, and in the case of clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d), as applicable to a circumstance where the Corporation would otherwise endeavor to issue preferred stock, shall be
limited to circumstances affecting markets where the Corporation s preferred stock trades or where a listing for its trading is being sought.       MEASUREMENT DATE  means (a) with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase of Junior Subordinated Debentures on or prior to December 15, 2036, the date that is 180 days; and (b) with
respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase of junior subordinated debentures after the scheduled redemption date, the date that is 90 days, in each case prior to delivery of notice of such repayment or redemption or prior to the date of such
repayment, redemption or purchase.       MEASUREMENT PERIOD  means the period from a Measurement Date to the related
notice date or purchase date. Measurement Periods cannot run concurrently.       NO PAYMENT PROVISION  means a provision
or provisions in the transaction documents for securities (referred to in this definition as  such securities ) that include the following:      (a) an Alternative Payment Mechanism; and      (b) an Optional
Deferral Provision modified and supplemented from the general definition of that term to provide that:      (i) the
issuer of such securities may, in its sole discretion, or (if the Corporation elects to so provide in the terms of such securities) shall in response to a directive or order from any Applicable Governmental Authority defer in whole or in part
payment of Distributions on such securities for one or more consecutive Distribution Periods of up to five years or, if a Market Disruption Event has occurred and is continuing, ten years, without any remedy other than Permitted Remedies and the
obligations (and limitations on obligations) described in the definition of  Alternative Payment Mechanism  applying; and      (ii) if the Corporation becomes subject to a bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar proceeding prior to the redemption or repayment of such securities, the holders of such securities will have no
claim to any deferred and unpaid Distributions exceeding (x) if the APM Qualifying Securities include only Common Stock or rights to acquire Common Stock and do not include Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, 25% of the principal or
stated amount of such securities then outstanding and (y) if the   
         9   

APM Qualifying Securities include Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, two years of Distributions on such securities; provided, however, that if the APM Qualifying Securities
include Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock and, accordingly, clause (y) applies, holders of such securities may have an additional preferred equity claim in respect of deferred and unpaid distributions which are in excess of two
years of Distributions that is senior to the Corporation s Common Stock and is or would be pari passu with any Qualifying Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock up to the amount equal to their pro rata shares of any unused portion of the Preferred Cap
(as defined in the definition of  Alternative Payment Mechanism ).       NON-CUMULATIVE  means, with respect
to any securities, that the issuer may elect not to make any number of periodic Distributions without any remedy arising under the terms of the securities or related agreements in favor of the holders, other than one or more Permitted Remedies.
      NRSRO  means a nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Rule
15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act.       OPTIONAL DEFERRAL PROVISION  means, as to any securities, provisions
in the terms thereof or of the related transaction agreements to the effect of either (a) or (b) below:      (a)
(i) the issuer of such securities may, in its sole discretion, defer in whole or in part payment of Distributions on such securities for one or more consecutive Distribution Periods of up to five years or, if a Market Disruption Event is continuing,
ten years, without any remedy other than Permitted Remedies and (ii) an Alternative Payment Mechanism (provided that such Alternative Payment Mechanism need not apply during the first five years of any deferral period and need not include a Common
Cap or Preferred Cap); or      (b) the issuer of such securities may, in its sole discretion, defer in whole or in
part payment of Distributions on such securities for one or more consecutive Distribution Periods up to ten years, without any remedy other than Permitted Remedies.       PERMITTED REMEDIES  means, with respect to any securities, one or more of the following remedies:      (a) rights in favor of the holders of such securities permitting such holders to elect one or more directors of the issuer (including any such rights required by the listing requirements of any stock or
securities exchange on which such securities may be listed or traded), and      (b) complete or partial prohibitions preventing
the issuer from paying Distributions on or repurchasing Common Stock or other securities that rank pari passu with or junior as to Distributions to such securities for so long as Distributions on such securities, including unpaid Distributions,
remain unpaid.   
         10   

PERSON  means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust,
limited liability company or corporation, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.       PROSPECTUS SUPPLEMENT  has the meaning specified in Recital B.   
   QUALIFYING CAPITAL SECURITIES  means securities (other than Common Stock, rights to acquire Common Stock, Mandatorily
Convertible Preferred Stock and Debt Exchangeable for Equity) that, in the determination of the Corporation s Board of Directors reasonably construing the definitions and other terms of this Replacement Capital Covenant, meet one of the
following criteria:      (a) in connection with any repayment, redemption or purchase of Junior Subordinated
Debentures on or prior to December 15, 2036:      (i) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries
that (A) rank pari passu with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (B) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and (C) either (x) are
subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant and have either a No Payment Provision or are Non-Cumulative or (y) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision and are subject to Intent-Based
Replacement Disclosure and have either an Optional Deferral Provision or a No Payment Provision; or      (ii)
preferred stock issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) is Non-Cumulative, (B) has no prepayment obligation on the part of the issuer thereof, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise, (C) has no maturity or
a maturity of at least 60 years and (D) either (x) is subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or (y) has a Mandatory Trigger Provision and is subject to Intent-Based
Replacement Disclosure; or      (iii) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) rank
pari passu or junior to other preferred stock of the issuer, (B) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years, (C) are subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant, (D) have an
Optional Deferral Provision and (E) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision; or      (b) in connection with any
repayment, redemption or purchase of Junior Subordinated Debentures at any time after December 15, 2036 but on or prior to December 15, 2046:      (i) all securities described under clause (a) of this definition;      (ii) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) rank pari passu with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation, (B) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years, (C) are subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant and (D) have an Optional Deferral Provision;   
         11   

(iii) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) rank
pari passu with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (B) are Non-Cumulative or have a No Payment Provision and (C) (x) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years
and (y) are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure;      (iv) securities issued by the Corporation or its
Subsidiaries that (A) rank pari passu with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (B) are Non-Cumulative or have a No Payment Provision, (C) have no maturity or a maturity of
at least 40 years and (D) are subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant;      (v) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) rank pari passu with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation,
(B) have an Optional Deferral Provision, (C) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision and (D) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years;      (vi) cumulative preferred stock issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) has no prepayment obligation on the part of the issuer thereof, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise,
and (B) (x) has no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and (y) is subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant; or   
  (vii) other securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) rank upon a liquidation, dissolution or
winding-up of the Corporation either (x) pari passu with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures or (y) pari passu with the claims of the Corporation s trade creditors and junior to all of the Corporation s long-term indebtedness
for money borrowed (other than the Corporation s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed from time to time outstanding that by its terms ranks pari passu with such securities on a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation),
(B) have an Optional Deferral Provision or a No Payment Provision and (C) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision and (D) either (x) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years and Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure or (y) have no maturity or a
maturity of at least 25 years and are subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant; or      (c) in connection with any repayment, redemption or purchase of Junior Subordinated Debentures at any time after December 15, 2046:   
  (i) securities described under clause (b) of this definition;   
         12   

(ii) preferred stock issued by the Corporation that (A) (x) has no maturity
or a maturity of at least 50 years and (y) is subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure and (B) is Non-Cumulative;      (iii) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) rank pari passu with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation, (B) either (x) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure or (y) have no maturity or a maturity at least 30 years and are subject to a replacement capital covenant
substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant and (C) are Non-Cumulative;      (iv) securities issued
by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) rank pari passu with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (B) have an Optional Deferral Provision, (C) have a Mandatory
Trigger Provision and (D) (x) have no maturity or a maturity at least 30 years and (y) are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure; or      (v) cumulative preferred stock issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that either (A) (x) has no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and (y) are subject to Intent-Based Replacement
Disclosure or (B) has a maturity of at least 40 years and is subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant.       QUALIFYING NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK  means non-cumulative preferred shares of the Corporation that rank pari passu with or junior to all other preferred shares of the
Corporation, are perpetual and (a) are subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or (b) are subject to both (i) mandatory suspension of dividends in the event the Corporation breaches
certain financial metrics specified within the offering documents, and (ii) Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure. Additionally, in both (a) and (b) the transaction documents shall provide for no remedies as a consequence of non-payment of
Distributions other than Permitted Remedies.       REDESIGNATION DATE  means, as to the Covered Debt in effect at any
time, the earliest of (a) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date of such Covered Debt, (b) if the Corporation elects to redeem or repay, or the Corporation or a Subsidiary of the Corporation elects to purchase, such Covered Debt
either in whole or in part with the consequence that after giving effect to such redemption, repayment or purchase the outstanding principal amount of such Covered Debt is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption, repayment or purchase date
and (c) if such Covered Debt is not Eligible Subordinated Debt, the date on which the Corporation issues long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Subordinated Debt.   
   REPLACEMENT CAPITAL COVENANT  has the meaning specified in the introduction to this instrument.   
         13   

REPLACEMENT CAPITAL SECURITIES  means,   
  (a) Common Stock and rights to acquire Common Stock (including Common Stock and rights to acquire Common Stock issued
pursuant to any reinvestment plan and employee benefit plans of the Corporation);      (b) Mandatorily Convertible
Preferred Stock;      (c) Debt Exchangeable for Equity; and   
  (d) Qualifying Capital Securities.       SUBORDINATED INDENTURE  means the indenture, dated June 21, 2005, between the Corporation and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National
Association), as subordinated indenture trustee, as supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture.       SUBSIDIARY  means,
at any time, any Person the shares of stock or other ownership interests of which having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other managers of such Person are at the time owned, or the management or policies of
which are otherwise at the time controlled, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries (including other Subsidiaries) or both, by another Person.       SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE  means the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 21, 2006, between the Corporation and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee.   
   TERMINATION DATE  has the meaning specified in Section 4(a).   
         14   

</EX-4.82>

<EX-10.10>
 11
 d302570dex1010.htm
 LETTER

Letter 

Exhibit 10.10       1095 Avenue of Americas      New York, NY 10036-6796   

March 24, 2011       
    Dear Michel:   
  As you know, the International business has ambitious financial and integration objectives ahead of it over the next few years. Your alignment with these
objectives and continued engagement during this time is of utmost importance.      As your alignment with the 2011 business plan is critical, I am
pleased to offer to you the opportunity to receive a special alignment incentive award for this year in an amount up to $750,000 (US), payable in March 2012 (less applicable and required withholding). You will be eligible for this award upon a
determination that the financial and integration objectives set out in the 2011 International Line of Business plan have been met. Further, in order to receive this award you must remain continuously employed in your current position through the
date of payment in March 2012, and your performance must be satisfactory, as determined by MetLife management.      In additional, I recognize the
need to phase you into MetLife s long term compensation program and therefore we will provide you with a special award payable in two parts: up to $1.0 million (US) for performance year 2011, payable in March 2012 (less applicable and required
withholding); and up to 1.0 million (US) for performance year 2012, payable in March 2013 (less applicable and required withholding). In order to receive the maximum payments you must achieve your business plan for the applicable year. Further
you must remain continuously employed in your current position through the date of payment, and your performance must be satisfactory, as determined by MetLife management.      This letter represents the entire terms of these award opportunities and no other documents or oral statements will govern. All amounts discussed in this letter represent discretionary bonuses and not
salary payments. All amounts described herein will not be considered in determining your retirement, disability, life insurance, or for the purpose of any other employer paid or sponsored benefit or compensation program, including but not limited to
the calculation of statutory or other severance. Furthermore, the amounts referred to herein will only be included in the calculation of severance benefits if MetLife determines that the laws of your locality require it. These amounts are also not
eligible to be deferred.      Your participation in these award opportunities underscores the important role you play in the on-going success of
the International business and the integration of Alico into MetLife. I appreciate your continued hard work, commitment and professionalism.   
  If you have questions, please do not hesitate to contact me.       

Sincerely,   

/s/ Bill Toppeta   
 
  William J. Toppeta   

cc:  
      
  K. Henkel   

</EX-10.10>

<EX-10.11>
 12
 d302570dex1011.htm
 OFFER LETTER

Offer Letter 

Exhibit 10.11    
   
    25 March 2009       STRICTLY PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL        Mr. Michel Khalaf    
  Dear Michel:      This will confirm our offer of
your employment with  ALICO Middle East, Africa and South Asia (MEASA) , subject to the following terms and conditions:       POSITION:
      You will be appointed as  Regional President- ALICO MEASA  effective your transfer date.   
  You will report to the ALICO Chairman and CEO.   
   SALARY:       Your base annual salary will be
US$400,000 (Four Hundred Thousand Dollars only) on a 13-month basis, payable in UAE Dirhams. Your salary shall be reviewed in the first quarter of 2009, and each following year thereafter.       BONUS:       Contingent upon your meeting the Company s performance expectations and being
an active, full-time employee, you will be eligible for a pro-rated performance bonus based on the effective date of this assignment. For 2009 your target bonus will be USD 133,000 (payable in UAE Dirhams).   
    TRANSPORTATION:        You will receive
a transportation allowance of UAE Dirhams 7,000/- per month.        HOUSING ALLOWANCE:     
  You will be entitled to annual housing allowance of UAE Dirhams 475,000. The Company will pay your housing utilities expenses (electricity, water, and
municipality charges).      Your private home telephone is your responsibility. However, the company will reimburse you for approved business
calls made from your home.   

ANNUAL LEAVE:        You will be entitled to 30 Calendar days paid annual leave for each one full year of service. Weekends and Public Holidays will be considered part of your leave entitlement if they fall during your leave
period. Entitlement is due on completion of one year of service. The timing of your leave will be coordinated with and approved by the Regional Chief Agency Officer.       RETURN AIRFARE:       Dubai/Home of record/ Dubai economy class airfare will be provided to you
and your dependents, on assignment with you, on completion of one full year of service and annually thereafter.       SCHOOLING:    
  From Junior Kindergarten or equivalent through Grade 12, the company will cover your children s (on assignment with you) school tuition
fees   directly related charges. Your contribution will be limited to 20% of the cost, with a maximum of US$ 875 ( US$ Eight Hundred Seventy Five) per child per year. The Company will cover the excess up to US$ 10,000 (US$ Ten Thousand
only) per child per year.       CLUB MEMBERSHIP:       You will be entitled to Club Membership for you and your dependents.        INSURANCE:
       You will be entitled to enroll under ALICO MEASA Employees Group Life and Medical Insurance plans per company guideline. You will also
be eligible for other local benefits normally granted to staff, per standing regulations.   

A Member Company of American International Group, Inc   

GROUP PENSION PLAN:       You will be eligible to participate in ALICO MEASA Employees Group Pension Plan.      Employees
contribute 5% of their salaries to this plan, and the company matches this contribution by an equal 5%.      It should be understood that the
governing law is the labor law of DIFU-UAE.      It is also understood and agreed that this offer is contingent upon your obtaining valid work
permits or visa necessary to reside/work in UAE. The Company will assist you with this process.      Please signify your acceptance and
understanding of the above terms by signing and returning the attached copy of this letter.       
    I hereby confirm my acceptance of this offer and agree to the terms and conditions specified therein.   
  Signature   Date      cc: R. Haber   

A Member Company of American International Group, Inc   

</EX-10.11>

<EX-10.35>
 13
 d302570dex1035.htm
 FORM OF MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SHARE AGREEMENT

Form of Management Performance Share Agreement 

Exhibit 10.35        MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SHARE AGREEMENT       MetLife, Inc. confirms that, on
 [grant date]  (the  Grant Date ), it granted you,  [name] ,  [number]  Performance Shares (your  Performance Shares ). Your Performance Shares are subject to the terms and conditions of this Management Performance
Share Agreement (this  Agreement ) and the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ).       

1.   
    Standard Performance Terms .          (a) The terms of this Section 1 shall be referred to as the  Standard Performance Terms  and will apply to your Performance Shares except in so far as Sections 2 (Change of Status) or 3
(Change of Control) apply.      (b) The Performance Period for your Performance Shares will begin on  [date] ,  [year]
 and end on the December 31 immediately preceding the third anniversary of the beginning of the Performance Period. After the conclusion of the Performance Period, the Committee shall certify in writing the number of Performance Shares
payable in accordance with Section 1(c) (your  Final Performance Shares ), and your Final Performance Shares will be due and payable in Shares.      (c) The Committee will determine your Final Performance Shares by multiplying your Performance Shares by the  Performance Factor.  The Performance Factor means a percentage (from zero to 200%)
which is the sum of two other percentages (each from zero to 100%), described in (1) and (2) below.   
  (1) The first percentage will be based on the Company s performance with respect to Change in Annual Net Operating
Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share during the Performance Period relative to the other companies in the Standard and Poor s Insurance Index, determined according to Table 1 of Schedule A to this Agreement. For this purpose,
(a)  Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share  for any period means net income, excluding: (1) after-tax net investment gains and losses, (2) after-tax adjustments related to net investment gains and
losses, (3) after-tax discontinued operations other than discontinued real estate, and (4) preferred stock dividends, in each case determined according to generally accepted accounting principles, divided by the weighted average number of
shares outstanding during such period determined on a diluted basis under generally accepted accounting principles; and (b)  Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share  means Net Operating Income
Available to Common Shareholders Per Share in the final calendar year of the Performance Period divided by Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share in the calendar year immediately preceding the beginning of the Performance
Period.      (2) The second percentage will be based on the Company s performance with respect to
Proportionate Total Shareholder Return during the Performance Period relative to the other companies in the Standard and Poor s Insurance Index, determined according to Table 2 of Schedule A to this Agreement. For this purpose,
(a)  Initial Closing Price  means the average Closing Price (and, in the case of a company other than the Company, the most closely analogous price) in the twenty (20) trading days prior to the first day of the Performance
Period; (b)  Final Closing Price  means the average Closing Price (and, the case of a company other than the Company, the most closely analogous price) in the twenty (20) trading days prior   

to and including the final day of the Performance Period; (c)  Total Shareholder
Return  means the change (plus or minus) from the Initial Closing Price to the Final Closing Price, plus dividends (if any) actually paid on Shares (or, in the case of a company other than the Company, the most closely analogous security) on a
reinvested basis from the first day of the Performance Period to and including the last day of the Performance Period; and (d)  Proportionate Total Shareholder Return  means Total Shareholder Return divided by Initial Closing Price.
     (d) For these purposes, the Standard   Poor s Insurance Index means each company which is described by either
of the following criteria:      (1) the company is included in such index for the entirety of the Performance
Period; or      (2) the company is included in such index on the final day of the Performance Period, and at least
fifty percent (50%) of the securities entitled to vote for the directors of that company were owned, directly or indirectly, immediately after and as the result of a merger, acquisition, or other similar corporate transaction, by a majority of
the shareholders (determined immediately prior to such transaction) of a company that was either: (i) included in such index on the first day of the Performance Period, or (ii) described by this Section 1(d)(2).   
   2.  Change of Status .  For purposes of this Section 2, your transfer between the Company and an Affiliate, or among
Affiliates, will not be a termination of employment. In the event of a Change of Control, any applicable terms of Section 3 (Change of Control) will supersede the terms of this Section 2.   
  (a)  Long-Term Disability . In the event you qualify for long-term disability benefits under a plan or arrangement offered by the
Company or an Affiliate for its Employees, the Standard Performance Terms will continue to apply to your Performance Shares. Once this provision applies, no other change of status described in this Section 2 (except the provision regarding
termination for Cause) will affect your Performance Shares, even if you subsequently return to active service or your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates other than for Cause.   
  (b)  Death . In the event that your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates due to your death, your Performance
Shares will be due and payable in Shares (or cash at a value equal to the Closing Price on the date of your death, if so determined by the Committee).      (c)  Retirement . If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) on after your early retirement date or normal retirement date (in each case determined under
any ERISA qualified pension plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate) ( Retirement ), the Standard Performance Terms will continue to apply to your Performance Shares.   
  (d)  Bridge Eligibility . If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) with bridge
eligibility for retirement-related medical benefits (determined under an ERISA qualified benefit plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate, if any) ( Bridge Eligibility ), and your separation agreement (offered
to you under the severance program offered by the Company or an Affiliate to its Employees) becomes final, the Standard Performance Terms will continue to apply to your Performance Shares.   
         2   

(e)  Termination for Cause . In the event that your employment with the Company or an
Affiliate terminates for Cause, your Performance Shares will be forfeited immediately.      (f)  Other Termination of
Employment . Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if no other provision in this Section 2 regarding change of status applies, including, for example, your voluntary termination of employment, your termination without Retirement or
Bridge Eligibility, or your termination by the Company or an Affiliate without Cause, your Performance Shares will be forfeited immediately. To the extent you are offered a separation agreement by the Company or an Affiliate, the value of your
forfeited Performance Shares may, in the discretion of the Company or Affiliate, be considered in determining the terms of that offer.       3.  Change of Control .        (a) Except as provided in
Section 3(b), and unless otherwise prohibited under law or by applicable rules of a national security exchange, if a Change of Control occurs, your Performance Shares will be due and payable in the form of cash equal to the number of your
Performance Shares multiplied by the Change of Control Price, and such sum shall be paid to you within thirty (30) days of the Change of Control.      (b) The terms of Section 3(a) will not apply to your Performance Shares if the Committee reasonably determines in good faith, prior to the Change of Control, that you have been granted an Alternative
Award for your Performance Shares pursuant to Section 15.2 of the Plan.       4.  Nontransferability of Awards .
 Except as provided in Section 5 or as otherwise permitted by the Committee, you may not sell, transfer, pledge, assign or otherwise alienate or hypothecate any of your Performance Shares, and all rights with respect to your Performance
Shares are exercisable during your lifetime only by you.       5.  Beneficiary Designation .  You may name any
beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) who may then exercise any right under this Agreement in the event of your death. Each beneficiary designation for such purpose will revoke all such prior designations.
Beneficiary designations must be properly completed on a form prescribed by the Committee and must be filed with the Company during your lifetime. If you have not designated a beneficiary, your rights under this Agreement will pass to and may be
exercised by your estate.       6.  Tax Withholding .  The Company will withhold from payment made under this Agreement
an amount sufficient to satisfy the minimum statutory Federal, state, and local tax withholding requirements relating to payment on account of your Performance Shares.       7.  Adjustments .  The Committee may, in its discretion, make adjustments in the terms and conditions of your Performance Shares in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the
Company or its financial statements, or in recognition of changes to applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate to prevent unintended dilution or enlargement of the
potential benefits of your Performance Shares. The Committee s determination in this regard will be conclusive.       8.
 Timing of Payment .  The Company will make payment to you as soon as reasonably practicable after such payment becomes payable under this Agreement, unless you have earlier      deferred such payment in accordance with arrangements offered to you for that purpose. If Shares are to be paid to you, you will receive evidence of ownership of those Shares.   
         3   

9.  Closing Price .  For purpose of this Agreement,  Closing Price 
will mean the closing price of a Share as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system for the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other recognized quotation system on which the trading prices of the Shares are quoted at the
relevant time), or in the event that there are no Share transactions reported on such tape or other system on the applicable date, the closing price on the immediately preceding date on which Share transactions were reported. Closing Price shall
constitute  Fair Market Value  under the Plan for all purposes related to your Performance Shares.       10.  No
Guarantee of Employment .  This Agreement is not a contract of employment and it is not a guarantee of employment for life or any period of time. Nothing in this Agreement interferes with or limits in any way the right of the Company or an
Affiliates to terminate your employment at any time. This Agreement does not give you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or an Affiliate.       11.  Governing Law; Choice of Forum .  This Agreement will be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of the law that might be applied under
principles of conflict of laws. Any action to enforce this Agreement or any action otherwise regarding this Agreement must be brought in a court in the State of New York, to which jurisdiction the Company and you consent.   
   12.  Miscellaneous .  For purposes of this Agreement,  Committee  includes any direct or indirect delegate of the
Committee as defined in the Plan and the word  Section  refers to a Section in this Agreement. Any other capitalized word used in this Agreement and not defined in this Agreement, including each form of that word, is defined in the Plan.
Any determination or interpretation by the Committee pursuant to this Agreement will be final and conclusive. In the event of a conflict between any term of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan control. This Agreement and
the Plan represent the entire agreement between you and the Company, and you and all Affiliates, regarding your Performance Shares. No promises, terms, or agreements of any kind regarding your Performance Shares that are not set forth, or referred
to, in this Agreement or in the Plan are part of this Agreement. In the event any provision of this Agreement is held illegal or invalid, the rest of this Agreement will remain enforceable. If you are an Employee of an Affiliate, your Performance
Shares are being provided to you by the Company on behalf of that Affiliate, and the value of your Performance Shares will be considered a compensation obligation of that Affiliate. Your Performance Shares are not Shares and do not give you the
rights of a holder of Shares. You will not be credited with additional Performance Shares on account of any dividend paid on Shares. The issuance of Shares or payment of cash pursuant to your Performance Shares is subject to all applicable laws,
rules and regulations, and to any approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required. No Shares will be issued or no cash will be paid if that issuance or payment would result in a violation of applicable law,
including the federal securities laws and any applicable state or foreign securities laws.       13.  Amendments .  The
Committee has the exclusive right to amend this Agreement as long as the amendment does not adversely affect any of your previously-granted Awards in any material way (without your written consent) and is otherwise consistent with the Plan. The
Company will give written notice to you (or, in the event of your death, to your beneficiary or estate) of any amendment as promptly as practicable after its adoption.   
         4   

14.  Agreement to Protect Corporate Property .  The grant of your Performance
Shares is subject to your execution of the Agreement to Protect Corporate Property provided to you with this Agreement ( Property Agreement ). If you do not return a signed copy of the Property Agreement, this Agreement and the Performance
Shares granted to you will be void. The Company may in its sole discretion allow an extension of time for you to return your signed Property Agreement.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to execute this Agreement, and you have executed this Agreement.   

METLIFE, INC.  

EMPLOYEE   

By:  
     
  C. Robert Henrikson  

[name]    

Name  

Chairman of the Board,     President and CEO   

Title  

Signature  

Signature   

Date: _____________________________________________   
 
         5   

Schedule A        to Management Performance Share Agreement        

6   

*  
  First percentage and second percentage are added together and the total is multiplied by the number of Performance Shares granted to determine the number of Final
Performance Shares. See Section 1(c) of this Agreement.     
         7   

</EX-10.35>

<EX-10.45>
 14
 d302570dex1045.htm
 AMENDED AND RESTATED 2010-2011 LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN

Amended and Restated 2010-2011 Long Term Incentive Plan 

Exhibit 10.45        AMENDED AND RESTATED        2010-2011 LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN FOR EMPLOYEES OF
ALICO        (effective November 1, 2010)       This 2010-2011 Long Term Incentive Plan for Employees of American Life Insurance Company ( ALICO ) (this  Plan ) is effective as amended and restated as of November 1, 2010, and
was originally effective (under the name,  American International Group, Inc. 2010-2011 Long Term Incentive Plan for Employees of American Life Insurance Company ) as of March 29, 2010. The obligations and liabilities under this Plan
are obligations and liabilities of ALICO and not obligations or liabilities of MetLife, Inc. or any affiliate of MetLife, Inc. other than ALICO.      The purpose of this Plan is to provide certain key employees of ALICO (the  Company ), an affiliate of MetLife, Inc. (together with its affiliates),  MetLife ), with an incentive and
reward for contributions to the growth and profitability of the Company and with recognition of and incentive for their contributions to the sale of ALICO by ALICO Holdings LLC, and the sale of Delaware American Life Insurance Company by American
International Group, Inc. ( AIG ), each to MetLife, Inc. (the  ALICO Transaction ).       

SECTION 1   
   Participation         1.1.
 Participants . Each employee of the Company or one of its affiliates who was selected prior to November 1, 2010 to participate by the Compensation and Management Resources Committee ( the CMRC ) of the Board of Directors of AIG
(including any successor to that committee, or person or persons who were designated by the CMRC to administer the Plan from time to time until November 1, 2010, the  CMRC  or  Committee ), as evidenced by the receipt by
such individual of an award letter detailing an award issued under this Plan (an  Award ) (the  Award Letter ) from the CMRC, will be a  Participant  in this Plan.   

SECTION 2   
   Awards         2.1.
 Performance Awards . A Participant s Award Letter will set forth a cash award opportunity (the  Cash Target ) for the Participant, as was established prior to November 1, 2010 by the CMRC.   
  2.2.  Performance Measures . The prescribed metrics, along with the performance measures and percentages of value attributable to
each such metric, by which award values will be determined, are set forth on the Annex to this Plan (the  Performance Measures ), as well as a threshold level of performance ( Threshold ) and a maximum level of performance
( Maximum ).      2.3.  Measurement Period . The period during which the performance of the Company will be
measured (the  Performance Period ) in respect of the Performance Measurements will be the period beginning on January 1, 2010 and ending on December 31, 2011.   

2.4.  Earned Cash Awards . At the end of the Performance Period, the officer of
MetLife, Inc. in charge of Human Resources or that officer s written designee (the  Administrator ) will measure performance against the Performance Measures and determine the amount of cash earned for the Performance Period (the
 Earned Cash Award ). Subject to the terms and conditions of this Plan and unless determined otherwise by the Administrator, the Earned Cash Award will be determined as follows,  provided that  in no event may the Earned Cash Award
exceed two times the Cash Target:       

Performance   
      
   Percentage of Cash Target Earned   

Performance less than Threshold   

0  
  %    

Performance at Threshold   

50  
  %    

Performance between Threshold and Maximum   

Greater than 50% - Less than 200  
     %    

Performance at or above Maximum   

200  
  %    
    The percentage of the Cash Target that will be awarded if performance is between Threshold and Maximum
will be proportionate to the amount by which performance exceeds Threshold.      2.5.  Vesting of Earned Cash Awards . Except
as provided in Section 3, and subject to the other terms and conditions of this Plan and the applicable Award Letter, Earned Cash Awards shall vest according to the following schedule: 33 1/3% of the Earned Cash Award shall vest on
January 1, 2012, 33 1/3% of the Earned Cash Award shall vest on January 1, 2013 and the remaining 33 1/3% of the Earned Cash Award shall vest on January 1, 2014 (each, a  Scheduled Vesting Date ).   
  2.6.  Payment of Earned Cash Awards . Except as provided in Section 3, Participants will receive payment in respect of any
Earned Cash Award, or part thereof, as promptly as administratively practicable following the applicable Scheduled Vesting Date (each such date of payment, a  Payment Date ),  provided that  any payment following the first Scheduled
Vesting Date shall be made as promptly as administratively practicable following the determination of Earned Cash Awards by the Administrator, but no later than April 30, 2012 and payment following the subsequent Scheduled Vesting Dates shall
be made within 30 days following the applicable Scheduled Vesting Date. Subject to Section 3, a Participant must be an Active Employee (as defined below) on the applicable Scheduled Vesting Date in order to be entitled to receive a payment of a
portion of an Earned Cash Award.       

SECTION 3   
   Employment Requirement; Death         3.1.  Continuous Employment Through Payment Date . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein and in Section 3.2, a Participant will not be entitled to receive payment of an Award, and will
forfeit all rights with respect to any unpaid portion of an Award, if for any reason the Participant is not an Active Employee of MetLife on the relevant Payment Date, other than in cases of death, Disability, or involuntary termination without
Cause. The Administrator however, shall be able, in its sole discretion, to reinstate an Award that has terminated or otherwise been forfeited. Solely for purposes of   
         2   

this Plan, an  Active Employee  shall mean an employee (i) who is actively performing services for MetLife, (ii) who is on an MetLife-approved leave of absence, whether paid
or unpaid, or (iii) is in receipt of long-term disability benefits, in each case while in good standing with MetLife.       

A.  
  In the event that a Participant has been involuntarily terminated by MetLife without Cause or incurs a long-term Disability during the Performance Period, the
Participant shall receive payment of an Award in accordance with Section 3.1.B, unless, in its sole discretion, the Administrator affirmatively determines that an Award shall not be paid to the Participant. For the avoidance of doubt, an
involuntary termination as provided in this clause A shall not include a resignation that a Participant may assert was a constructive dismissal.         

B.  
  If the Administrator determines to pay an Award in the circumstances set forth in Section 3.1.A, the amount will be determined by the Administrator (based on
actual performance through the end of the applicable performance period) on a pro rata basis calculated by multiplying the amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days elapsed in the 2010-2011 Performance Period from 1/1/10
through the last date that the Participant was actively performing services for MetLife or on short-term disability leave (including parental leave), and the denominator of which is the total number of days in the 2010-2011 Performance Period. Such
amount shall be paid to such Participant by the earlier of (i) within two and one-half months after the end of the calendar year in which the Participant is involuntarily terminated by MetLife without Cause or incurs a long-term Disability, as
applicable or (ii) to the extent some amount is payable earlier, the scheduled payment date with respect to such amount.         

C.  
  If the Participant is involuntarily terminated without Cause or incurs a long-term Disability after the completion of the Performance Period, the Earned Cash Award
shall not be prorated but shall be fully paid, and shall immediately vest and be paid as provided in the last sentence of Section 3.1.B.         

D.  
  For these purposes, the term  Cause  will mean (i) a Participant s conviction, whether following trial or by plea of guilty or  nolo
contendere  (or similar plea), in a criminal proceeding (A) on a misdemeanor charge involving fraud, false statements or misleading omissions, wrongful taking, embezzlement, bribery, forgery, counterfeiting or extortion, or (B) on a
felony charge or (C) on an equivalent charge to those in clauses (A) and (B) in jurisdictions which do not use those designations; (ii) a Participant s engaging in any conduct which constitutes an employment disqualification
under applicable law (including statutory disqualification as defined under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934); (iii) a Participant s material failure to perform his or her duties to MetLife; (iv) a Participant s violation of
any securities or commodities laws, any rules or regulations issued pursuant to such laws, or the rules and regulations of any securities or commodities exchange or association of which MetLife is a member; (v) a Participant s violation of
any MetLife policy concerning hedging or confidential or proprietary information, or a Participant s material violation of any other MetLife policy as in effect from time to time; (vi) a Participant s engaging in any act or making any
statement which impairs, impugns, denigrates, disparages or negatively reflects upon the name, reputation or business interests of MetLife; or (vii) a Participant s engaging in any conduct detrimental to MetLife. The determination as to
whether  Cause  has occurred shall be made by the Administrator in the Administrator s sole discretion.     
         3   

For the purposes of the Plan,  Disability  will mean that a Participant, who after
receiving short-term disability income replacement payments for 6 months, (i) is determined to be disabled in accordance with the Company s long-term disability plan in which employees of the Company are generally able to participate, if
one is in effect at such time, or (ii) to the extent such Participant is not participating in the Company long-term disability plan, or no such long-term disability plan exists, is determined to have a medically determinable physical or mental
impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months as determined by, as applicable, the Company s long-term disability insurer or the department or vendor directed by
the Company to determine eligibility for unpaid medical leave.      3.2.  Death . Notwithstanding any other provision of this
Plan, in the event a Participant s employment terminates by reason of his or her death, such Participant will be eligible to receive an Award, unless, in its sole discretion, the Administrator determines that an Award shall not be paid to the
Participant. Any amount that would be payable to such a Participant s estate hereunder will be calculated in the same manner as if the employee had been involuntarily terminated without Cause as is set forth in Sections 3.1A, B and C above
 provided, however,  that the date of death shall be substituted for the date of termination of employment. Such amount shall be paid to such Participant s estate by the earlier of (i) within two and one-half months after the end of
the calendar year in which the Participant dies or (ii) to the extent some amount is payable earlier, the scheduled payment date with respect to such amount.      3.3.  Retirement . If a Participant retires, whether on or after normal retirement age or on or after early retirement age, all unvested Awards will be forfeited.   
  3.4.  Closing of ALICO Transaction . As the closing date of the ALICO Transaction took place during the 2010-2011 Performance
Period, Earned Cash Awards for Participants who were Active Employees as of November 1, 2010 will vest and be paid according to the normal vesting and payment schedule described in Sections 2.5 , 2.6 or 3, as applicable.   

SECTION 4   
   Administration of this Plan         4.1.  General . This Plan will be administered by the Administrator. The Administrator may allocate among its members and delegate to any of the Administrator s administrative responsibilities.
The Administrator will have power to interpret this Plan, to make regulations for carrying out its purpose and to make all other determinations in connection with the Plan and its administration in the Administrator s sole discretion
(including, without limitation, whether Cause exists with respect to any Participant, the amount and extent to which a Performance Measure has been achieved, and the amount of all Awards), all of which will, unless otherwise determined by the
Administrator, be final, binding and conclusive.      4.2.  Non-Uniform Determinations . The Administrator s
determinations under this Plan need not be uniform and may be made by it selectively among Participants (whether or not such Participants are similarly situated). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrator will be entitled,
among other things, to make non-uniform and selective determinations as to the persons to become Participants under this Plan and the amounts of the Cash Target.   
         4   

4.3.  Determination of Employment . The Administrator will have the sole right to
determine the commencement or date of termination of a Participant s employment with MetLife, and whether the Participant is an Active Employee, for the purposes of this Plan, separate and apart from any determinations as may be made by MetLife
with respect to the individual s employment.      4.4.  Amendments . The Administrator will have the power to amend this
Plan in any manner and at any time, including in a manner adverse to the rights of the Participants or any Participant;  provided that , notwithstanding the foregoing, the Administrator may not accelerate or postpone any payment to a
Participant to occur at a time other than the time provided for in this Plan unless permitted by Section 409A for compensation that satisfies the exception for  short-term deferrals.    
  4.5.  No Liability . Neither the Administrator nor any employee of MetLife involved in the operation or administration of this Plan
(each, a  Covered Person ) will have any liability to any person (including any Participant) for any action taken or omitted to be taken or any determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Participant s
participation in it.      4.6.  Adjustments .   The Administrator may, in the Administrator s discretion, adjust
the metrics and/or Performance Measures under this Plan to preserve the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available to Participants under this Plan for any sale, transfer or other disposition of MetLife or the Company to a third
party, including the U.S. government, or conversion of shares of common stock or other securities of MetLife, or for any other reason which the Administrator deems appropriate.   
  4.7.  Release of Claims . In the case of a Participant who is involuntarily terminated by MetLife without Cause or terminates
employment due to Disability, ALICO will require the Participant to execute a release substantially in the form used under the MetLife Plan for Tranisition Assistance, or otherwise determined by the Administrator.   

SECTION 5   
   General Rules         5.1.
 Plan and Awards Subject to Compensation Requirements . [Reserved]      5.2.  No Funding . MetLife will be under no
obligation to fund or set aside amounts to pay obligations under this Plan. Participants will have no rights to the Awards other than as a general unsecured creditor of the Company.   
  5.3.  Tax Withholding . As a condition to the payment of any compensation under this Plan or in connection with any other event that
gives rise to a federal or other governmental tax withholding obligation (i) MetLife may deduct or withhold (or cause to be deducted or withheld) from any payment to a Participant whether or not pursuant to this Plan, or (ii) the
Administrator will be entitled to require that the Participant remit cash to MetLife (through payroll deduction or otherwise), in each case, in an amount sufficient as determined by the MetLife to satisfy such withholding obligation. Participants
shall be solely liable for any applicable taxes (including, without limitation, income and excise taxes) and penalties, and any interest that accrues thereon, that they incur in connection with the receipt of any Award, and MetLife shall have no
liability in respect thereof.   
         5   

5.4.  No Rights to Other Payments . The provisions of this Plan provide no right or
eligibility to a Participant to any other payouts from MetLife under any other alternative plans, schemes, arrangements or contracts MetLife may have with any employees or group of employees of MetLife.   
  5.5.  No Effect on Benefits . Subject to Section 5.1, grants and payments under this Plan will constitute a special
discretionary incentive payment to the Participants and will not be required to be taken into account by MetLife in computing the amount of salary or compensation of the Participants for the purpose of determining any contributions to or any
benefits under any pension, retirement, profit-sharing, bonus, life insurance, severance or other benefit plan of MetLife or under any agreement with the Participant, unless the Company specifically provides otherwise.   
  5.6.  Repayment and Clawback . If the Administrator determines that any Award or payment or delivery made under this Plan was based
on materially inaccurate financial statements (which includes, but is not limited to, statements of earnings, revenues or gains) or any other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria (including the Performance Measures), or if, following
the payment or delivery of an Award under this Plan, a Participant is terminated for Cause, then (i) any unpaid Award shall be forfeited or (ii) following payment or delivery of cash with respect to any Award, the Company shall be entitled
to receive, and the Participant shall be obligated to repay to the Company immediately upon demand therefor, the amount of cash paid with respect to the applicable Payment Date. The repayment to the Company described in clause (ii) of this
Section 5.6 shall be net of any taxes withheld from the original payment to the Participant. Payment of any Award is contingent on the existence of no such material inaccuracies as of the applicable Payment Date.   
  5.7.  Section 409A . Awards under this Plan are intended to provide payments that satisfy the  short-term deferral 
exemption under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time (the  Code ), and therefore Awards are not intended to be  deferred compensation  subject to Section 409A ( Section
409A ). It is the Company s intent that payments under this Plan are exempt from Section 409A, and that the Plan be interpreted and administered accordingly. For this purpose,   Section 409A   means Section 409A of
the Code, including any amendments or successor provisions to that section, and any regulations and other administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they may be from time to time amended or interpreted through further administrative
guidance. The Administrator will have full authority to give effect to the intent of this Section 5.7. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the payment of any Award would be subject to the limitations in Section 409A(a)(2)(b)
of the Code, any such Award shall be delayed until six months after the Participant s separation from service with MetLife (or earlier death) in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A. Each payment or delivery in respect of any
Award will be treated as a separate payment or delivery for purposes of Section 409A.      5.8.  Severability . If any
of the provisions of this Plan is or are finally held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable (whether in whole or in part), such provision will be deemed modified to the extent, but only to the extent, of such invalidity, illegality or
unenforceability and the remaining provisions will not be affected thereby;  provided  that if any of such provisions is finally held to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable because it exceeds the maximum scope determined to be acceptable to
permit such provision to be enforceable, such provision will be deemed to be modified to the minimum extent necessary to modify such scope in order to make such provision enforceable hereunder.   
         6   

5.9.  Entire Agreement . This Plan, along with the Award Letter, contains the entire
agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter thereof and supersedes all prior agreements, promises, covenants, arrangements, communications, representations and warranties between them, whether written or oral, with respect to the
subject matter thereof.      5.10.  Waiver of Claims . Each Participant recognizes and agrees that, prior to the receipt of
any Award under the Plan, he or she has no right to any benefits under this Plan. Accordingly, in consideration of the Participant s receipt of any Award hereunder, he or she expressly waives any right to contest the value of any Award, the
terms of this Plan, any determination, action or omission pursuant to this Plan or the Award Letter by the Administrator or the Company, or any amendment to this Plan.      5.11.  No Third Party Beneficiaries . Except as expressly provided herein, this Plan will not confer on any person other than MetLife and the Participant any rights or remedies hereunder.   
  5.12.  Successor Entity; Company s Assigns . Except as otherwise determined by the Administrator, in the event of a merger,
consolidation, mandatory share exchange or other similar business combination of the Company with or into any other entity ( Successor Entity ) or any transaction in which another person or entity acquires all of the issued and outstanding
voting securities of the Company, or all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, outstanding Awards may be assumed or a substantially equivalent award may be substituted by such Successor Entity or a parent or subsidiary of such Successor
Entity. The terms of this Plan will be binding and inure to the benefit of the Company and its successors and assigns.      5.13.
 Nonassignability . No Award (or any rights and obligations thereunder) granted to any person under the Plan may be sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of or hedged, in any manner (including
through the use of any cash-settled instrument), whether voluntarily or involuntarily and whether by operation of law or otherwise, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, except as may be otherwise determined by the
Administrator. Any sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, or other disposition in violation of the provisions of this Section 5.13 will be null and void and any Award which is hedged in any manner will immediately be
forfeited. All of the terms and conditions of this Plan and the Award Letters will be binding upon any permitted successors and assigns.      5.14.  Right to Discharge . Nothing contained in this Plan or in any Award Letter will confer on any Participant any right to be continued in the employ of MetLife or to be included in any future
plans of a similar nature.      5.15.  Right of Offset . To the extent consistent with law, MetLife will have the right to
offset against its obligation to deliver cash under the Plan any outstanding amounts (including, without limitation, travel and entertainment or advance account balances, loans, repayment obligations under any Awards, or amounts repayable to MetLife
pursuant to tax equalization, housing, automobile or other employee programs) that the Participant then owes to MetLife and any amounts the Administrator otherwise deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement.   
  5.16.  No Liability With Respect to Tax Qualification or Adverse Tax Treatment . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
herein, in no event shall   
         7   

MetLife be liable to a Participant on account of the failure of any Award or amount payable under this Plan to (a) qualify for favorable United States or foreign tax treatment or
(b) avoid adverse tax treatment under United States or foreign law, including, without limitation, Section 409A.       

SECTION 6   
   Disputes         6.1.
 Governing Law . This Plan will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to principles of conflict of laws. The Plan shall also be subject to all applicable non-U.S. laws as to
Participants located outside of the United States. In the event that any provision of this Plan is not permitted by the local laws of a country or jurisdiction in which a Participant performs services, such local law shall supersede that provision
of this Plan with respect to that Participant. The benefits to which a Participant would otherwise be entitled under this Plan may be adjusted or limited to the extent that the Administrator determines is necessary or appropriate in light of
applicable law or local practice.      6.2.  Arbitration . Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, any dispute,
controversy or claim between MetLife, on the one hand, and a Participant, on the other hand, arising out of or relating to or concerning this Plan or any Award, will be finally settled by arbitration in New York City before, and in accordance
with the rules then obtaining of, the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the  NYSE ) or, if the NYSE declines to arbitrate the matter (or if the matter otherwise is not arbitrable by it), the American Arbitration Association (the
 AAA ) in accordance with the commercial arbitration rules of the AAA. Prior to arbitration, all claims maintained by a Participant must first be submitted to the Administrator in accordance with claims procedures determined by the
Administrator.      6.3.  Jurisdiction .  MetLife and each Participant hereby irrevocably submit to the exclusive
jurisdiction of a state or federal court of appropriate jurisdiction located in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York over any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning this Plan or any Award that is not
otherwise arbitrated or resolved according to Section 6.2 . MetLife and each Participant acknowledge that the forum designated by this section has a reasonable relation to this Plan and to such Participant s relationship with MetLife,
that the agreement as to forum is independent of the law that may be applied in the action, suit or proceeding and that such forum shall apply even if the forum may under applicable law choose to apply non-forum law.   
  6.4.  Waiver . MetLife and each Participant waive, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection which MetLife
and such Participant now or hereafter may have to personal jurisdiction or to the laying of venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in any court referred to in Section 6.3. MetLife and each Participant undertake not to commence any action,
suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning this Plan or any Award in any forum other than a forum described in Section 6.3. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall preclude MetLife from bringing any action, suit
or proceeding in any other court for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Section 6. MetLife and each Participant agree that, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, a final and non-appealable judgment in any such suit,
action or proceeding in any such court shall be conclusive and binding upon the Participant and MetLife.   
         8   

6.5.  Service of Process . Each Participant irrevocably appoints the General Counsel of
ALICO (the  General Counsel ) at 600 King Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801, U.S.A. as his or her agent for service of process in connection with any action, suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning this Plan or
any Award that is not otherwise arbitrated or resolved according to Section 6.2. The General Counsel will promptly advise the Participant of any such service of process.      6.6.  Confidentiality . To the extent consistent with law, each Participant must keep confidential any information concerning any grant made under this Plan and any dispute, controversy or claim
relating to this Plan, except that a Participant may disclose information concerning a dispute or claim to the court that is considering such dispute or to such Participant s legal counsel (provided that such counsel agrees not to disclose any
such information other than as necessary to the prosecution or defense of the dispute).       

SECTION 7   
   Term of Plan         This Plan will continue
until suspended or terminated by the Administrator in its sole discretion.       

ADOPTED AS AMENDED AND RESTATED:   

/s/ Kathleen A. Henkel    
 
  Kathleen A. Henkel   
 
  Administrator   
 
         9   

Annex to the      Amended And Restated 2010-2011       Long Term Incentive Plan For Employees Of Alico
        Performance Measures     

2010 Measures and Goals: 50% Weighting *    

Performance Area    
     
     Metric    
     
     Measurement    
     
     Results Target Corridor     

Separation/Integration   
   Milestones           Weight: 30%    
     
  Successful closing of scheduled separation items, Alico Independent items and MetLife cooperation items  
     
  On Time (per the Separation Dashboard) and On Budget (in accordance with the separation budget)  
     
    Separation      
       Threshold: Items in schedules 6.13(a)(i), 6.13 (a)(ii) and 6.08 (e)  
           Target:
6.13(a)(i), 6.13 (a)(ii) and 6.08 (e) items and High Priority Cooperation interdependencies on or before Close      
       Exceeds: Meets Target and closes 90% of the medium and low priority
interdependencies on or before close and 100% by the end of Q12011    

Ensure Day 1 readiness by delivering all Day 1 Must Have Initiatives  
     
  On Time (Prior to or At closing) per the MetLife Day 1 Initiative Project Plan  
     
  Day 1 Readiness: Pass or Fail   

Capital   Liquidity       
   Weight: 30%    
     
  Maintain solvency ratios and manage capital without increasing leverage in line with expectations and without AIG support  
     
  Actual solvency ratios will be calculated and provided by ALICO  
     
    Threshold: Maintain solvency ratios in line with approved budget (RBC of 400%, CAR of 150%, UK at 160%, Japan 1000%)  
      Target: Maintain solvency ratios in line with approved budget and build Home Office
liquidity buffer of $100M    

Build and maintain a Home Office liquidity buffer for ALICO  
     
  Liquidity buffer to be maintained at the ALICO Home Office level  

Profitability Management       
   Weight: 40%    
     
  Alico businesses to achieve 2010 core reforecast earnings of $2.2 billion, GAAP Pre-tax Operating Income prior to MetLife PGAAP and other adjustments  
     
    Pre-tax operating income (GAAP basis);      
   Year-end PTOI to be normalized for the effect of FX and adjusted for lost net income on dividends.    
     
  GAAP PTOI: threshold is 80% of target, target is 100% of target and over achievement represents 120% of target prior to MetLife PGAAP and other adjustments.   

Maintain 2010 unlevered ROE to average of prior two years 2008-2009  
     
  ROE will be calculated by ALICO using after-tax net income divided by average equity (ex-AOCI), excluding IPO costs  
     
  ROE results as of closing: 13% ROE threshold; 13.5% ROE target and 14% ROE considered over achievement   

*  
  All performance results will be determined by the committee or other plan administrator designated under the 2010-2011 Long Term Incentive Plan for Employees of Alico
in its discretion, and those determinations will be final.           

2011 Measures and Goals: 50% Weighting *    

Performance Area    
     
     Metric    
     
     Measurement    
     
     Results Target Corridor     

Integration/Synergy   
   Milestones           Weight: 30%    
     
  Achievement of all post Day 1 through Day 3 Initiatives set out in the joint MetLife/Alico integration Plan  
     
  On Time per the MetLife post Day 1 through Day 3 Initiatives set out in joint MetLife/Alico Integration Plans on budget with achievement of synergy targets  
     
    Day 1 to Day 3      
       Threshold   All TSA s exited as scheduled  
           Target  
TSA s exited as scheduled and all High Priority Initiatives implemented on time and on budget      
       Exceeds   Meets Target plus delivers at least 50% of milestones ahead of
schedule and/or under budget    

Profitability Management       
   Weight: 40%    
     
  Combined Alico/MetLife International business to achieve 2011 PGAAP After-tax Net Earnings of $2,350 million based on plan FX rates with Alico accretive to MetLife s share
price of 50 cents  
     
  Combined after-tax net earnings (PGAAP basis) with Alico accretive to MetLife s share price of 50 cents  
     
  PGAAP After-tax net earnings: threshold is 80% of target, target is 100% of plan target and over achievement represents 120% of target.   

Growth   

PFOI Weight: 15%   
     
  Combined Alico/MetLife International business to achieve 2011 PFOI of $15.7 billion  
     
  Combined Alico/MetLife International PFOI  
     
  Threshold is 80% of target, target is 100% of target and over achievement represents 120% of target.   

Sales Weight: 15%   
     
  Combined Alico/MetLife International business to achieve 2011 Sales of $6.0 billion  
     
  Combined Alico/MetLife International Sales under common definition (i.e. ANP)  
     
  Threshold is 75% of target, target is 100% of target and over achievement represents 125% of target.   

*  
  All performance results will be determined by the committee or other plan administrator designated under the 2010-2011 Long Term Incentive Plan for Employees of Alico
in its discretion, and those determinations will be final.           

</EX-10.45>

<EX-10.46>
 15
 d302570dex1046.htm
 METLIFE INTERNATIONAL PERFORMANCE UNIT INCENTIVE PLAN

MetLife International Performance Unit Incentive Plan 

Exhibit 10.46        METLIFE INTERNATIONAL PERFORMANCE UNIT INCENTIVE PLAN        (as amended and
restated effective February 23, 2011)       ARTICLE I.   
  PURPOSE      The
purpose of the  METLIFE INTERNATIONAL PERFORMANCE UNIT INCENTIVE PLAN  as it may be amended from time to time (the  Plan ) is to foster and promote the long-term financial success of each Affiliate and materially increase the
value of each Affiliate by (a) motivating superior performance, and (b) enabling each Affiliate to attract and retain the services of an outstanding management team upon whose judgment, interest, and special effort the successful conduct
of its operations is largely dependent.      ARTICLE II.      DEFINITIONS      2.1.  Definitions . Whenever used herein, the following terms
shall have the respective meanings set forth below:      (a)  Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended.      (b)    Administrator  means the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, or
such individual(s) as he shall designate in writing for such purpose from time to time.      (c)
 Affiliate  includes each corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, or other entity (not including the Company):      (i) that is within the meaning of that term in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations of the Act, with reference to the Company;   
  (ii) in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, at least twenty percent (20%) of the total combined Voting
Power of such corporation or of the capital interest or profits interest of such partnership or other entity; or   
  (ii) which is a partner in a partnership with the Company or any Affiliate as defined in parts (i) or (ii) of
this definition.      (d)  Alternative Award  means new rights that:   
  (i) are based on stock which is traded on an established securities market, or that the Administrator reasonably believes
will be so traded within 60 days after the Change of Control;      (ii) provide such Participant with rights and
entitlements substantially equivalent to or better than the rights, terms and conditions applicable under the Performance Unit with regard to which it is granted, including, but not limited to, an identical or better exercise, eligibility, or
vesting schedule and identical or better timing and methods of payment;   

(iii) have substantially equivalent economic value to the Performance Unit
with regard to which it is granted (determined at the time of the Change of Control);      (iv) have terms and
conditions which provide that in the event that of the Participant s involuntary Termination or is Constructively Terminated, any conditions on a Participant s rights under, or any restrictions on transfer or exercisability applicable to,
the rights shall be waived or shall lapse, as the case may be; and      (v) do not accelerate the timing of payment
or otherwise violate Code Section 409A.      (e)  Approved Retirement  means a Participant s
Termination:      (i) on or after any of the dates indicated below, with credit for purposes of reaching any such
date to include credit for service: (x) with any Affiliate; and (y) with American Life Insurance Company and any of its affiliates as of October 31, 2010 (collectively,  Alico ) (to the extent the Participant was an employee
of Alico as of October 31, 2010 and to the extent such service was recognized by Alico for any of its retirement plan purposes as of October 31, 2010):       
    (ii) at times and under such circumstances as determined by the Administrator in its sole
discretion; or      (ii) on or after any date as of which the Participant s Termination is required under
applicable law or employer policy (excluding agreements or contractual obligations in either case applicable solely to an individual employee) in either case due to the Participant attaining a particular age, so long as the Participant has service
(as defined in Section 2.1(e)(i)) of at least one year;       provided that,  in each case, the Administrator may
require, as a condition to a Participant s retirement being an  Approved Retirement  for purpose of the   
         2   

Plan, that the Participant enter into a general release of claims, non-solicitation and/or non-competition agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator.   
  (f)  Board  means the Board of Directors of the Company.   
  (g)  Cause  means ( i ) the willful failure by the Participant to perform substantially his duties as
an Employee (or, should the Participant s employment transfer to the Company, as an employee of the Company)), other than due to physical or mental illness, after reasonable notice to the Participant of such failure, ( ii ) the
Participant s engaging in serious misconduct that is injurious to the Company or any Affiliate in any way, including, but not limited to, by way of damage to their respective reputations or standings in their respective industries,
( iii ) the Participant s having been convicted of, or having entered a plea of  nolo   contendere  to, a crime that constitutes a felony or ( iv ) the breach by the Participant of any written covenant or agreement
with the Company or any Affiliate not to disclose or misuse any information pertaining to, or misuse any property of, the Company or any Affiliate or not to compete or interfere with the Company or any Affiliate.   
  (h)  Change of Control  shall be deemed to have occurred if:   
  (i) any person (within the meaning of Section 3(a)(9) of the Act), including any group (within the meaning of
Rule 13d-5(b) under the Act), but excluding the MetLife Policyholder Trust (and any person(s) who would otherwise be described herein solely by reason of having the power to control the voting of the shares held by such Trust) and any employee
benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Affiliate thereof, acquires  beneficial ownership  (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company
representing 25% or more of the combined Voting Power of the Company s securities; or      (ii) within any
24-month period, the persons who were directors of the Company at the beginning of such period (the  Incumbent Directors ) shall cease to constitute at least a majority of the Board or the board of directors of any successor to the
Company;  provided ,  however , that any director elected to the Board, or nominated for election, by a majority of the Incumbent Directors then still in office shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director for purposes of this subclause
(ii); or      (iii) upon the consummation of a merger, consolidation, share exchange, division, sale or other
disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company which has been approved by the shareholders of the Company (a  Corporate Event ), and immediately following the consummation of which the stockholders of the Company
immediately prior to such Corporate Event do not hold, directly or indirectly, a majority of the Voting Power of (x) in the case of a merger or consolidation, the surviving or resulting corporation, (y) in the case of a share exchange, the
acquiring corporation or (z) in the case of a   
         3   

division or a sale or other disposition of assets, each surviving, resulting or acquiring corporation which, immediately following the relevant Corporate Event, holds more than 25% of the
consolidated assets of the Company immediately prior to such Corporate Event; or      (iv) any other event occurs
which the Board declares to be a Change of Control.      (i)  Change of Control Price  means the highest
price per share of Common Stock offered in conjunction with any transaction resulting in a Change of Control (as determined in good faith by the Administrator if any part of the offered price is payable other than in cash) or, in the case of a
Change of Control occurring solely by reason of a change in the composition of the Board, the highest Closing Price of Common Stock on any of the 30 trading days immediately preceding the date on which a Change of Control occurs.   
  (j)  Closing Price  means, on any date, the closing price of Common Stock as reported in the principal consolidated transaction
reporting system for the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other recognized quotation system on which the trading prices of Common Stock are quoted at the relevant time) on such date. In the event that there are no Common Stock transactions
reported on such tape (or such other system) on such date, Closing Price shall mean the closing price on the immediately preceding date on which Common Stock transactions were so reported.   
  (k)  Code  means the United States Internal Revenue Code.   
  (l)  Committee  means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, or the successor
committee to such committee, or any other duly authorized committee of such Board of Directors of the Company appointed by the Board of Directors of the Company to administer the Plan, or the Board of Directors of the Company, and the
Committee s designee or delegate.      (m)  Common Stock  means the common stock of the Company, par
value United Stated Dollars $0.01 per share.      (n)  Company  means MetLife, Inc., a Delaware
corporation, and any successor thereto.      (o)  Constructively Termination  means a voluntary
Termination by an Employee within ten (10) business days after any of the following actions by the Company, Affiliate, or person acting on behalf of either:   
  (i) requiring the Employee to be based as his/her regular or customary place employment at any office or location more
than fifty (50) miles from the location at which the Employee performed his/her duties immediately prior to the Change of Control, except for travel reasonably required in the performance of the individual s responsibilities;   
         4   

(ii) reducing the Employee s base salary below the rate in effect at
the time of a Change of Control; or      (iii) failing to pay the Employee s base salary, other wages, or
employment-related benefits as required by law.      (p)  Disability  has the meaning given in such
long-term disability plan, program, or arrangement maintained by the Company or an Affiliate in which the Participant participates, or in such other long-term disability plan, program, or arrangement in which the Participant participates designated
for purposes of this definition at any time, and from time to time, by the Administrator.      (q)
 Employee  means any employee of any Affiliate, as determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Administrator may revise the definition of Employee so as to conform to the laws of any
jurisdiction in accordance with Section 4.3(c) below. For greater clarity, no employee of the Company shall be an Employee.      (r)  Final Performance Units  will have the meaning ascribed to that term in the applicable Performance Unit Agreement.   
  (s)  Participant  means any Employee designated by the Committee or the Administrator to participate in the
Plan.      (t)  Performance Factor  will have the meaning ascribed to that term in the applicable
Performance Unit Agreement.      (u)  Performance Period  will have the meaning ascribed to that term in
the applicable Performance Unit Agreement.      (v)  Performance Unit  means a conditional right to
payment granted pursuant to and subject to the terms of this Plan, denominated in units.      (w)  Performance
Unit Agreement  means a written agreement between the Participant and one or more Affiliates that specifies the number of Performance Units granted to the Participant, the Performance Factor, the Performance Period, how the number of Final
Performance Units will be determined, the effect of any Termination on Performance Units, and any other conditions of any payment related to Performance Units, and such other terms and conditions as the Administrator shall determine which are not
inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan.      (x)  Termination  means the termination of employment,
except that no transfer of employment between an Affiliate and the Company, or between an Affiliate and any other Affiliate will be considered a Termination.      (y)  Voting Power  means such number of Voting Securities as shall enable the holders thereof to cast all the votes which could be cast in an annual election of directors of a company, and
 Voting Securities  shall mean all securities entitling the holders thereof to vote in an annual election of directors of a company.   
         5   

2.2  Gender and Number . Except when otherwise indicated by the context, words in the
masculine gender used in the Plan shall include the feminine gender, the singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the singular.      ARTICLE III.      ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION   
  Participants in the Plan shall be those Employees selected by the Committee or the Administrator to be granted Performance Units pursuant
to the Plan.      ARTICLE IV.      POWERS OF THE COMMITTEE AND THE ADMINISTRATOR      4.1.  Power to Grant .
     (a) The Committee and the Administrator shall determine the Employees to whom Performance Units shall be granted. The number
of Performance Units the Committee may grant shall be unlimited. The number of Performance Units the Administrator may grant to any individual Participant shall be limited to 15,000 in any 12-month period. The Administrator may not grant any
Performance Units to any individual who is (x) subject to Section 16 of the Act; (y) an executive officer of the Company; or (z) subject to Section 4230 of the New York Insurance Law, in each case unless the Committee
approves or ratifies such a grant.      (b) The Administrator shall determine the terms and conditions of any and all such
Performance Units, including the terms of any Performance Unit Agreements. The Administrator may establish different terms and conditions for different Participants and for the same Participant for each Performance Unit such Participant may receive,
whether or not granted at different times. Notwithstanding any other terms of this Plan, no grant of Performance Units shall be effective unless an one or more Affiliates approves or ratifies the grant. The Committee s or Administrator s
grant of Performance Units to an employee of MetLife Group, Inc. shall constitute approval of the grant by MetLife Group, Inc.   
  4.2.  Administration .      (a)  Rules, Interpretations and Determinations . The Plan shall be administered by the Administrator. The Administrator shall have full authority to interpret and administer the Plan, to establish,
amend, and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, to provide for conditions deemed necessary or advisable to protect the interests of any Affiliate, to construe Performance Unit Agreements and to make all other determinations it
determines necessary or advisable for the administration and interpretation of the Plan in order to carry out its provisions and purposes. Determinations, interpretations, or other actions made or taken by the Administrator shall be final, binding,
and conclusive for all purposes and upon all persons.   
         6   

(b)  Agents and Expenses . The Administrator may appoint agents (who may be officers or
employees of the Company or any Affiliate) to assist in the administration of the Plan and may grant authority to such persons to execute agreements or other documents on the Administrator s behalf. The Administrator may employ such legal
counsel, consultants and agents as it may deem desirable for the administration of the Plan and may rely upon any opinion received from any such counsel or consultant and any computation received from any such consultant or agent. All expenses
incurred in the administration of the Plan, including, without limitation, for the engagement of any counsel, consultant or agent, shall be paid by the Company or an Affiliate.   
  (c)  Adjustments to Conform With Law . Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, the Administrator may, in its sole
discretion, amend or vary the terms of the Plan in order to conform such terms with the requirements of local law or to meet the goals and objectives of the Plan, and may, in its sole discretion, establish administrative rules and procedures to
facilitate the operation of the Plan. The Administrator may, where it deems appropriate in its sole discretion, establish one or more sub-plans of the Plan for these purposes.      ARTICLE V.      ADJUSTMENTS TO PERFORMANCE UNITS   
  The Administrator will make appropriate adjustments in the terms and conditions of Performance Units in recognition of unusual or
nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements (such as a Common Stock dividend, Common Stock split, recapitalization, payment of an extraordinary dividend, merger, consolidation, combination, spin-off, distribution of assets
to stockholders other than ordinary cash dividends, exchange of shares, or other similar corporate change), or in recognition of changes to applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, to prevent unintended dilution or enlargement of the
potential benefits of Performance Units. The Administrator s determinations in this regard will be conclusive.      ARTICLE
VI.      PERFORMANCE UNITS      6.1.  Grant of Performance Units . Performance Units may be granted to Employees at such time or times as shall be determined by the Committee or the Administrator. Except as otherwise provided
herein, the Committee or the Administrator shall have complete discretion in determining the number of Performance Units, if any, to be granted to an Employee. The Committee or the Administrator may grant Performance Units before, at the same time
as, or after the beginning of the Performance Period applicable to those Performance Units. Notwithstanding any other terms of this Plan, no grant of Performance Units shall be effective unless one ore more Affiliates approves or ratifies the grant
and the terms thereof. The Committee s or the Administrator s grant of   
         7   

Performance Units to an employee of MetLife Group, Inc. shall constitute approval of the grant by MetLife Group, Inc. Each Performance Unit shall be evidenced by a Performance Unit Agreement. Any
Affiliate that approves or ratifies a grant of Performance Units shall execute the applicable Performance Unit Agreement through a representative.      6.2.  Payment . Subject to the terms of Articles VII and VIII of this Plan, a cash payment equal to the number of Final Performance Units multiplied by the Closing Price on the date designated by the
Plan Administrator (such date shall follow the last day of the Performance Period), less minimum withholding for applicable taxes and other legally-required items, shall be due and payable to the Participant (or another individual in lieu of the
Participant pursuant to Section 10.2 of the Plan). The timing of payment shall be determined under the applicable Performance Unit Agreement.      6.3  Substitution . The Administrator may, at any time prior to payment for Performance Units, in its sole discretion, may:      (a) find that the Company or an Affiliate has made an award to the Participant intended to substitute for the Performance Units, including but not limited to a contingent right to acquire Common Stock
(whether restricted or unrestricted, subject to Common Stock-price appreciation or other performance terms, in the form of options, or otherwise);      (b) find that such substitute award is subject to such material terms and conditions that: (i) are no less favorable than the terms and conditions governing the Performance Units; and (ii) that
provide for the same terms for timing of payment as do the Performance Units; and      (c) in light of such findings, cancel the
Performance Units without additional compensation to the Participant.      ARTICLE VII.   
  CHANGES OF STATUS   
  The applicable Performance Unit Agreement will specify the effect of changes of status including Disability, Termination (including
Termination for Cause or Approved Retirement) on Performance Units.   
         8   

ARTICLE VIII.      CHANGE OF CONTROL      Notwithstanding any other terms of this Plan, in the event of
a Change of Control, unless the Administrator reasonable determines in good faith prior to the occurrence of a Change of Control that an Alternative Award has been granted with regard to a Performance Unit, the Performance Units (without being
transformed into Final Performance Units) will be valued at the Change of Control Price and be immediately payable in cash. The timing of payment shall be determined under the applicable Performance Unit Agreement.   
  ARTICLE IX.   
  AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION, AND TERMINATION OF PLAN      The Administrator may amend or terminate the Plan at any time in its sole discretion. No amendment or termination of the Plan shall in any manner adversely affect any Performance Unit theretofore granted
under the Plan without the consent of the Participant.      SECTION X.   
  MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS      10.1.  Nature and Transferability of Performance Units . No Performance Unit shall be considered a property interest of any Participant, and such Performance Unit shall have no value except as a
means of determining, in part, the amount of payments, if any, under the Plan. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, no Performance Unit may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by
will or by the laws of descent and distribution.      10.2.  No Guarantee of Employment or Participation . Nothing in the
Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of any Affiliate to terminate any Participant s employment or service at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue in the employ of any Affiliate. No Employee shall
have a right to be selected as a Participant, or, having been so selected, to receive any future Performance Units.      103.
 Tax Withholding and Currency . Each Affiliate shall have the power to withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Affiliate, an amount sufficient to satisfy any applicable withholding tax requirements imposed by any competent authority
on any Performance Unit under the Plan, and the Affiliate may defer any payment until such requirements are satisfied. Any Affiliate may make any payment under this Plan in any currency chosen by the Affiliate in its discretion.   
  10.4.  No Limitation on Compensation . Nothing in the Plan shall be construed to limit the right of the Company or any Affiliate to
establish other plans, programs, agreements, or arrangements.   
         9   

10.5.  Requirements of Law . The granting of Performance Units and all payments under
this Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies as may be required.      10.6.  Term of Plan . The Plan shall be effective upon its execution by the Administrator. The Plan shall continue in effect until terminated pursuant to Article IX.   
  10.7.  Governing Law . The Plan and all Performance Unit Agreements hereunder shall be construed in accordance with and governed by
the laws of the State of Delaware of the United States of America, without regard to principles of conflict of laws.      10.8.
 No Impact on Benefits . Except as may otherwise be specifically stated under any employee benefit plan, policy or program, Performance Units shall not be treated as compensation for purposes of calculating an Employee s right under any
such plan, policy or program.      10.9.  No Constraint on Corporate Action . Nothing in this Plan shall be construed
( i ) to limit, impair or otherwise affect the Company s or any Affiliate s right or power to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or consolidate, or
dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its business or assets or ( ii ) except as provided in Article IX, to limit the right or power of the Company or any Affiliate to take any action which such entity deems to be
necessary or appropriate.      10.10.  Unfunded Plan . This Plan shall be unfunded and shall not create (or be construed to
create) a trust or separate fund. Likewise, this Plan shall not establish any fiduciary relationship between the Company or any Affiliate or the Administrator and the Participant. To the extent that any Participant holds any rights by virtue of
being granted Performance Units under this Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of any Affiliate that approves or ratifies the grant of Performance Units to such Participant.   
         10   

10.11.  Obligor . The obligation to make payments due under each Performance Unit
Agreement, if any, shall be the sole obligation of the Affiliate (or Affiliates, as the case may be) that enters into such Performance Unit Agreement. Payment due from any Affiliate in relation to any Performance Units may be made on behalf of that
Affiliate by any other Affiliate. In no event shall the Company be obligated to make payments due under this Plan pursuant to any Performance Unit Agreement.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Plan Administrator has adopted this MetLife International Performance Unit Incentive Plan, effective as amended and restated effective February 23, 2011.   

PLAN ADMINISTRATOR  

/s/ Dennis J. Shiel    
 
    Dennis J. Shiel   

Date:  
     
    7/21/11   

11   

</EX-10.46>

<EX-10.47>
 16
 d302570dex1047.htm
 FORM OF PERFORMANCE UNIT AGREEMENT

Form of Performance Unit Agreement 

Exhibit 10.47        PERFORMANCE UNIT AGREEMENT        [Company]  (the  Global
Affiliate ) confirms that, on  [date], [year]  (the  Grant Date ), you were granted  [amount in words]  ( [number] ) Performance Units under the MetLife International Performance Unit Incentive Plan (the
 Plan ), and approves and ratifies such grant. Your Performance Units are subject to the terms and conditions of this Performance Unit Agreement (this  Agreement ) and of the Plan (which is incorporated in this Agreement by
reference). Any payment due under this Agreement may be made on behalf of the Global Affiliate by any one or more Affiliates (each such Affiliate(s) making any such payment will be known as a  Paying Affiliate ). Unless otherwise
specified, the word  Section  refers to a Section in this Agreement. Any other capitalized word used in this Agreement but not defined here is defined in the Plan.       1.  Standard Performance Terms ..       (a) The terms of this
Section 1 shall be referred to as the  Standard Performance Terms  and will apply to your Performance Units except in so far as Sections 2 (Change of Status) or 3 (Change of Control) apply.   
  (b) The Performance Period for your Performance Units will begin on  [date] ,  [year]  and end on the December 31
immediately preceding the third anniversary of the beginning of the Performance Period. The Administrator will determine your Final Performance Units in accordance with this Section 1 (your  Final Performance Units ). Each Final
Performance Unit will be paid in cash equal to the Closing Price of Common Stock on the date designated by the Administrator following the last day of the Performance Period. Your Final Performance Units will be due and payable in cash at the time
specified in Section 16.      (c) If the Committee determines in writing that the Company met one or more of the
Section 162(m) Goals, then you will be eligible for a payment of up to 200% of your Performance Units. The  Section 162(m) Goals  shall be the following:   
  (1) Positive Company income from continuing operations before provision for income tax, excluding net investment gains
(losses) (defined in accordance with Section 3(a) of Article 7.04 of United States Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-X ), which includes total net investment gains (losses) and net derivatives gains (losses), as presented in the
financial statements in the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the calendar year preceding the beginning of the Performance Period ( Adjusted Income ), for the Performance Period.   
  (2) Positive Adjusted Income for the third calendar year of the Performance Period.   
  (3) Positive Company Proportionate Total Shareholder Return for the Performance Period, as defined for the Company in
Section 1(d)(2).      (4) Positive Company Proportionate Total Shareholder Return for the third calendar year
of the Performance Period, as defined for the Company in Section 1(d)(2) with respect to the third calendar year of the Performance Period.   

(d) If, under Section 1(c), you are eligible for a payment, the Administrator will
determine your Final Performance Units by multiplying your Performance Units by the  Performance Factor.  The Performance Factor means a percentage (from zero to 200%) which is the sum of two other percentages (each from zero to 100%),
described in (1) and (2) below, multiplied by the factor determined by (3) below, if applicable.   
  (1) The first percentage will be based on the Company s average percentile performance with respect to Change in
Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share during the Performance Period relative to the other companies in the Index, determined in the following manner:   
  (a) First, the Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share will be determined for the Company and for
each of the other companies in the Index, for each calendar year of the Performance Period and the calendar immediately preceding the first calendar year of the Performance Period. For this purpose,  Net Operating Income Available to Common
Shareholders Per Share  for each calendar year will have the meaning of that term, or its substantial equivalent, defined in or derived from the Company s quarterly financial supplement for the fourth quarter of the prior year filed with
or furnished to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.      (b) Second, the Change in Annual Net
Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share will be determined for the Company and for each of the other companies in the Index for each calendar year of the Performance Period. For this purpose,  Change in Annual Net Operating
Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share  means Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share for each calendar year of the Performance Period divided by Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share
in the immediately preceding calendar year.      (c) Third, the Company s Change in Annual Net Operating
Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share for each calendar year of the Performance Period will be compared to the Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share for each of the other companies in the Index
for the same calendar year to determine the percentage of the other companies in the Index whose performance was less than that of the Company, rounded down to the nearest whole number percentile appearing on the left-hand column of Table 1 of
Schedule A to this Agreement (Company performance greater than every other company in the Index being deemed to be performance in the ninety-ninth percentile), producing the Company s percentile performance relative to the other companies in
the Index.      (d) Fourth, a percentage for each calendar year of the Performance Period will be determined using
the percentile determined under Section 1(d)(1)(c) and the corresponding percentage on the right-hand column of Table 1 of Schedule A to this Agreement.   
         2   

(e) Finally, the three percentages referenced in Section
(1)(d)(1)(d) will be averaged.      (2) The second percentage will be based on the Company s performance
with respect to Proportionate Total Shareholder Return during the Performance Period as a percentage of that of the Index, determined according to Table 2 of Schedule A to this Agreement, determined in the following manner:   
  (a) First, the Initial Closing Price of the Company and the Index will each be determined. For this purpose,  Initial
Closing Price  means, in the case of the Company the average Closing Price, and in the case of the Index the value of the Index, in each case for the twenty (20) trading days prior to the first day of the Performance Period.   
  (b) Second, the Final Closing Price of the Company and the Index will each be determined. For this purpose,  Final
Closing Price  means, in the case of the Company the average Closing Price, and in the case of the Index the value of the Index, in each case for the twenty (20) trading days prior to and including the final day of the Performance Period.
     (c) Third, the Total Shareholder Return of the Company and the Index will each be determined. For this
purpose,  Total Shareholder Return  means the change (plus or minus) from the Initial Closing Price to the Final Closing Price, plus (in the case of the Company) dividends (if any) actually paid on Common Stock on a reinvested basis from
the first day of the Performance Period to and including the last day of the Performance Period.      (d) Fourth,
the Proportionate Total Shareholder Return of the Company and the Index will each be determined. For this purpose,  Proportionate Total Shareholder Return  means Total Shareholder Return divided by Initial Closing Price.   
  (e) Fifth, the Proportionate Total Shareholder Return of the Index will be subtracted from the Company s
Proportionate Total Shareholder Return, and the result rounded up or down to the nearest percentage appearing on the left-hand column of Table 2 of Schedule A to this Agreement (any result precisely halfway between two percentages being rounded up
to the next highest percentage).      (f) Finally, a percentage will be determined using the result produced under
Section 1(d)(2)(e) and the corresponding percentage on the right-hand column of Table 2 of Schedule A to this Agreement.      (3) If the Total Shareholder Return of the Company, as determined under Section (1)(d)(2)(c), is zero percent or less, then the sum of the percentages described under Sections (1)(d)(1) and
(1)(d)(2) will be multiplied by a factor of seventy-five hundredths (0.75) and rounded up or down to the nearest whole percentage (any result precisely halfway between two percentages being rounded up to the next highest percentage) to
determine the Performance Factor.   
         3   

(e) For purposes of Section 1(d)(1), the companies in the Index refers to each
company, other than the Company and other than Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (and any company that the Committee determines in its discretion is a successor to Berkshire Hathaway Inc.), that:   
  (1) does not adopt International Financial Reporting Standards with respect to a reporting period earlier than the
reporting period with respect to which the Company does so;      (2) has publicly reported its earnings in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for each of the two calendar years being compared under Section 1(d)(1)(b); and   
  (3) is included in the Standard   Poor s Insurance Index derived from Fortune 500 companies for the entirety
of the second of the two calendar years being compared under Section 1(d)(1)(b).      (f) For purposes of
Section 1(d)(2), the Index refers to the Standard   Poor s Insurance Index derived from Fortune 500 companies, excluding Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (and any company that the Committee determines in its discretion is a successor to
Berkshire Hathaway Inc.), including any weighting of the stock of the companies included in that Index that is applied by Standard   Poor s, from time to time.       2.  Changes of Status .  For purposes of this Section 2, your transfer between the Company and an Affiliate, or among Affiliates, will not be a termination of employment. In the event of a
Change of Control, any applicable terms of Section 3 (Change of Control) will supersede the terms of this Section 2.   
  (a)  Disability . In the event of your qualification for Disability benefits, Section 1 will continue to apply to your
Performance Units. Notwithstanding any other terms of this Section 2, if you qualify for Disability benefits no subsequent Termination, other than a Termination for Cause, shall affect your Performance Units.   
  (b)  Death . In the event of your Termination due to your death, each of your Performance Units (without being transformed into
Final Performance Units) will be valued at the Closing Price on the date of death and due and payable in cash. Any payment will be made at the time specified in Section 16.   
    (c)  Approved Retirement . In the event of your Termination by reason of an Approved Retirement, Section 1 will continue
to apply to your Performance Units. Subject to Section 2.1(e) of the Plan, you do not need special approval from the Administrator for an Approved Retirement.         (d)  Termination for Cause . Notwithstanding any other terms of this Section 2, in the event of your Termination for Cause, all of your Performance Units will be forfeited immediately.
     (e)  Other Terminations . Unless the Administrator determines otherwise, if no other provision of this Section 2
applies (including, for example, your voluntary Termination other than due to Approved Retirement or your involuntary Termination other than for Cause or due to   
         4   

Approved Retirement), all of your Performance Units will be forfeited immediately unless you are offered a separation agreement by the Company or an Affiliate under a severance program. To the
extent you are offered a separation agreement by the Company or an Affiliate, and your separation agreement becomes final, your Prorated Performance Units will be due and payable to you. Any payment will be made at the time specified in
Section 16. The number of your  Prorated Performance Units  will be determined by dividing the number of calendar months in the Performance Period that have ended as of the end of the month of the termination of your employment by
thirty-six (36), multiplying the result by the number of your Performance Units, and rounding to the nearest whole number, and, if you were subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16 of the United States Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended from time to time, or any successor act thereto (the  Exchange Act ), or were an  executive officer  of the Company under the Exchange Act and the rules promulgated thereunder, at any time during the Performance
Period, further multiplying the result by the lesser of 100% or the Performance Factor;  provided, however , that if the date of the termination of your employment is prior to the first anniversary of the beginning of the Performance Period,
then the number of your Prorated Performance Units shall be zero (0). Payment for each of your Prorated Performance Units will be made in cash at a value equal to the Closing Price on the Grant Date and shall be rounded to the nearest US one-hundred
dollars (US$100.00) in value;  provided, however , that if you were subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16 of the Exchange Act, or were an  executive officer  of the Company under the Exchange Act and the rules
promulgated thereunder, at any time during the Performance Period, payment for each of your Performance Units will be made in cash at a value equal to the lesser of the Closing Price on the Grant Date or the Closing Price on the date the Performance
Factor is determined, and shall be rounded to the nearest US one-hundred dollars (US$100.00) in value. If your separation agreement does not become final, your Performance Units will be forfeited.   
   3.  Change of Control .  Notwithstanding any other terms of this Plan, in the event of a Change of Control, unless the
Administrator reasonably determines in good faith prior to the occurrence of a Change of Control that an Alternative Award has been granted to you with regard to a Performance Unit, your Performance Units will be valued at the Change of Control
Price and be immediately due and payable in cash. Any payment will be made at the time specified in Section 16.       4.
 Nontransferability of Awards .  You may not sell, transfer, pledge, assign or otherwise alienate or hypothecate any of your Performance Units, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.   
   5.  Estate .  Benefits remaining unpaid at your death will be paid to your estate, except as otherwise required by law.
      6.  Tax Withholding .  The Paying Affiliate may withhold, or require you to remit, an amount sufficient to satisfy
any applicable withholding tax requirements relating to the payment on account of your Performance Units, and the Paying Affiliate may defer payment until this requirement is satisfied. Regardless of any action any Affiliate takes with respect to
any or all tax withholding (including social insurance contributions and payment on account obligations, if any), you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all such taxes is and remains your responsibility (or that of your estate) and that no
Affiliate makes any representations or   
         5   

undertakings regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with any aspect of any of your Performance Units, including the grant or payment on account of the Performance Units, and
that neither the Administrator nor any Affiliate commits to structure the terms of the grant of or any aspect of any Performance Unit to reduce or eliminate your (or you estate s or any heir s) liability for such tax.   
   7.  Adjustment of the Number of Performance Units .  The Administrator will make appropriate adjustments in the terms and
conditions of your Performance Units in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements as provided in the Plan. The Administrator s determinations in this regard will be conclusive. No additional
Performance Units will be credited to you on the occasion of the payment of any cash dividend on Common Stock or any other payment in connection with such Common Stock.       8.  Governing Law; Choice of Forum .  This Agreement will be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware of the United States of America, regardless of the
law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws. Any action to enforce this Agreement or any other action regarding this Agreement must be brought in a court in the State of New York of the United States of America, to which
jurisdiction the Administrator, the Global Affiliate, and you consent, to the maximum extent consistent with law.       9.
 Interpretation; Construction .  Any determination or interpretation by the Administrator pursuant to this Agreement will be final and conclusive. In the event of a conflict between any term of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the
terms of the Plan control.       10.  Entire Agreement .  This Agreement and the Plan represent the entire agreement
between you and the Global Affiliate regarding your Performance Units. No promises, terms, or agreements of any kind regarding your Performance Units that are not set forth in this Agreement or in the Plan, or to which there is no reference in this
Agreement or the Plan, are part of this Agreement.       11.  Amendments .  The Administrator has the exclusive right to
amend this Agreement as long as the amendment is consistent with the Plan. The Administrator will give written notice to you (or, in the event of your death, to your estate) of any amendment as promptly as practicable after its adoption.   
   12.  No Right to Future Grants; No Right of Employment .  This Agreement is not a contract of employment and it is not a
guarantee of employment for life or any period of time. Nothing in this Agreement interferes with or limits in any way the right of any Affiliate to terminate your employment at any time. This Agreement does not give you any right to continue in the
employ of any Affiliate. In accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that: (a) the Plan is established voluntarily, and this Agreement is established voluntarily by the Global Affiliate, and that each is discretionary in nature and may be
modified, suspended or terminated by the Administrator at any time, as provided in the Plan and this Agreement, respectively; (b) the grant of your Performance Units is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right
to receive future grants of Performance Units, or benefits in lieu of Performance Units, even if Performance Units have been granted repeatedly in the past; (c) all decisions with respect to future Performance Unit grants, if any, will be at
the sole discretion of the   
         6   

Administrator, including, but not limited to, the timing of any grants, the number of Performance Units and vesting provisions; (d) your participation in the Plan is voluntary; (e) the
Performance Units are an extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company, and which is outside the scope of your employment contract, if any; (f) the Performance Units are
not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, Termination, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement
benefits or similar payments; (g) the Performance Unit grant will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with any Affiliate or the Company; (h) the future Closing Price of Common Stock and the applicable
Performance Factor applicable to your Performance Units are unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty; (i) your Performance Units will have no value unless the applicable Performance Factor is greater than zero; (j) to the fullest
extent permitted by law, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from termination of the Performance Units or diminution in value of the Performance Units and you irrevocably release the Administrator, the Company, and each
Affiliate from any such claim that may arise; and (k) in the event of your Termination, neither your eligibility, nor any right to receive Performance Units, nor any period within which payment may be made on account of your Performance Units,
if any, will be extended beyond the period specified under this Agreement by any notice period mandated under law ( e.g. , active employment would not include a period of  garden leave  or similar period pursuant to local law);
furthermore, in the event of your Termination, your right to payment on account of your Performance Units, if any, will not be extended by any notice period mandated under law.   
   13.    Employee Data Privacy  . You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in
electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this document by the Administrator, any Affiliate, or the Company, for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand
that the Administrator, Affiliates, and the Company hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number,
salary, nationality, job title, or shares of stock or directorships held in Affiliates, and the Company, details of all Performance Units awarded, forfeited, on which payment has been made, and/or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of
implementing, administering and managing the Plan ( Data ). You understand that the Administrator, Affiliates, or the Company will transfer Data amongst themselves as necessary for the implementation, administration and management of the
Plan, that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, and that the recipient s country may have
different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the
recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be
required to a broker or other third party. You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan, including but not limited to any applicable retention period necessary
for effective or lawful administration of the Plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of   
         7   

Data, require any amendments to Data that are required by applicable law or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing your local human resources
representative. You are not obligated to consent to the collection, use, processing and transfer of Data. However, you understand that if you refuse to grant consent under this Section 13 by failing to accept this Agreement you will not receive
any Performance Units pursuant to this Agreement, and that if you subsequently withdraw your consent under this Section 13 you will forfeit all of your Performance Units. You understand that you may contact your local human resources
representative for more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent.       14.
 Severability .  The provisions of this Agreement are severable and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and
enforceable.       15.  Nature of Obligation .  You acknowledge that, subject to the terms of Section 19 of this
Agreement, the obligation to make payments due under this Agreement, if any, shall be the sole obligation of the Global Affiliate, but may be satisfied by any Affiliate on behalf of the Global Affiliate, and shall be unfunded and unsecured. In no
event shall the Company be obligated to make payments due under this Agreement. The Global Affiliate and you agree and acknowledge that, to the extent consistent with applicable law, neither the Performance Units, this Agreement, the Plan nor any
rights, obligations, terms and conditions set forth therein or in connection therewith, constitute securities, negotiable instruments, or derivatives instruments or transactions.   
   16.  Timing of Payment .       (a) This Agreement is intended to comply with Code Section 409A and shall be interpreted accordingly.      (b) If payment is due and payable under Section 2(b), it will be made upon your death.      (c) If payment is due and payable under Section 2(e), it will be made six (6) months after the termination of your employment (or six (6) months after your  separation from
service  under Code Section 409A, if that is a different date); provided, however, that if you were subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16 of the Exchange Act, or were an  executive officer  of the Company under
the Exchange Act and the rules promulgated thereunder, at any time during the Performance Period, payment will be made in the calendar year after the end of the Performance Period but in no event earlier than six (6) months after the
termination of your employment (or six (6) months after your  separation from service  under Code Section 409A, if that is a different date).      (d) If payment is due and payable under Section 3, and the Change of Control that causes payment to be due and payable is a  change of control  as defined under Code Section 409A, such
sum shall be paid to you within thirty (30) days of the Change of Control. If payment is due and payable under Section 3, and the Change of Control that causes payment to be due and payable is not a  change of control  as defined
under Code Section 409A, such sum shall be paid to you at the time determined under Section 16(e).   
         8   

(e) If payment is due and payable under the Standard Performance Terms (and you have not
been offered or chosen to defer payment under an applicable deferred compensation plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate), payment will be made in the calendar year after the end of the Performance Period.   
   17.  Currency; Exchange Rate .  Payments pursuant to Section 3 will be made in your then-current payroll currency (or
another currency of your choosing) at a reasonable US currency exchange rate chosen in good faith by the Paying Affiliate. Otherwise, any payment due to you will be made in your then-current payroll currency (or other currency of the Paying
Affiliate s choosing) at a United States currency exchange rate determined by the Paying Affiliate in its discretion.   
   18.  Consideration .  To the extent any separate or additional consideration is necessary under applicable law to effectuate
the parties  intentions to be bound by the terms of this Agreement, you agree to pay US$1.00 (One Dollar 00/100 currency of the United States of America) to the Global Affiliate, which shall not be refundable to you.   
   19.  Substitution of Award  . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the Administrator may, at any time
prior to payment for your Performance Units, in its sole discretion, find that the Company or an Affiliate has made an award to you intended to substitute for the Performance Units (including but not limited to a contingent right to acquire Common
Stock), and that such substitute award is subject to such material terms and conditions that are no less favorable than the material terms and conditions governing your Performance Units and that provide for the same timing for payment as apply to
your Performance Units. Upon such a finding, the Administrator may, in its sole discretion, cancel your Performance Units in light of that substitute award without additional compensation to you.   
   20.  Miscellaneous Terms .  Your Performance Units are not Common Stock and do not give you the rights of a holder of Common
Stock.   Any payment attributable to your Performance Units is subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and to any approvals by any governmental agencies as may be required, and to any Company policy on insider trading. No payment
will be made on account of your Performance Units if that payment would result in a violation of applicable law. Your Performance Units are subject to the Company s performance-based compensation recoupment policy (which currently covers only
officers or officer-equivalent employees of the Company and its Affiliates) in effect from time to time. As a condition of the grant confirmed in this Agreement, you agree to take any and all actions, and consent to any and all actions taken by the
Administrator, Company, Global Affiliate, or any Affiliate as may be required to comply with any laws, rules and regulations. In addition, you agree to take any and all actions as may be required to comply with your personal legal and tax
obligations under laws, rules and regulations. Any or all documents related to awards granted to you under the Plan may be delivered to you by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to engage
in any transaction under the Plan through any on-line or electronic system as may be established and maintained for that purpose. You acknowledge and agree that it is your express intent that this Agreement, the Plan and all other documents, notices
and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant to the award, be drawn up in English. If you have received this Agreement, the Plan or any other documents related to the award translated into a language other than English, and if
the meaning   
         9   

of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control except as otherwise required by law. The Administrator and the Global Affiliate reserve the right
to impose other requirements on awards granted to you under the Plan to the extent that either the Administrator or the Global Affiliate determines, in their respective sole discretion, that such other requirements are necessary or advisable in
order to comply with law or to facilitate the administration of the Plan.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Global Affiliate has caused
its duly authorized officer to execute, and you have executed, this Agreement effective on the Grant Date.       

[COMPANY   

EMPLOYEE  

By:  

Signature  

Signature  

Name  

Date  

Title  

10   

Schedule A        to Performance Unit Agreement        

*  
  First percentage is determined for each calendar year of the Performance Period and averaged, and added to second percentage. The total is multiplied by the number of
Performance Units granted to determine the number of Final Performance Units. See Section 1 of this Agreement.     

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Administrator has approved this form of Performance Unit Agreement pursuant to the
MetLife International Performance Unit Incentive Plan, effective February 23, 2011.       

</EX-10.47>

<EX-10.48>
 17
 d302570dex1048.htm
 METLIFE INTERNATIONAL UNIT OPTION INCENTIVE PLAN

MetLife International Unit Option Incentive Plan 

Exhibit 10.48        METLIFE INTERNATIONAL UNIT OPTION INCENTIVE PLAN        (as amended and
restated effective February 23, 2011       ARTICLE I.   
  PURPOSE      The
purpose of the MetLife International Unit Option Incentive Plan, as it may be amended from time to time (the  Plan ), is to foster and promote the long-term financial success of each Affiliate and materially increase the value of each
Affiliate by (a) motivating superior performance, and (b) enabling each Affiliate to attract and retain the services of an outstanding management team upon whose judgment, interest, and special effort the successful conduct of its
operations is largely dependent.      ARTICLE II.      DEFINITIONS      2.1.  Definitions . Whenever used herein, the following terms
shall have the respective meanings set forth below:      (a)  Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended.      (b)  Administrator  means the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, or such
individual(s) as he shall designate in writing for such purpose from time to time.      (c)  Affiliate 
includes each corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, or other entity (not including the Company):      (i) that is within the meaning of that term in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations of the Act, with reference to the Company;   
  (ii) in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, at least twenty percent (20%) of the total combined Voting
Power of such corporation or of the capital interest or profits interest of such partnership or other entity; or   
  (ii) which is a partner in a partnership with the Company or any Affiliate as defined in parts (i) or (ii) of
this definition.      (d)  Alternative Award  means new rights that:   
  (i) are based on stock which is traded on an established securities market, or that the Administrator reasonably believes
will be so traded within 60 days after the Change of Control;      (ii) provide such Participant with rights and
entitlements substantially equivalent to or better than the rights, terms and conditions applicable under the Unit Option with regard to which it is granted, including, but not limited to, an identical or better exercise, eligibility, or vesting
schedule and identical or better timing and methods of payment;   

(iii) have substantially equivalent economic value to the Unit Options with
regard to which it is granted (determined at the time of the Change of Control); and      (iv) have terms and
conditions which provide that in the event that of the Participant s involuntary Termination or is Constructively Terminated, any conditions on a Participant s rights under, or any restrictions on transfer or exercisability applicable to,
the rights shall be waived or shall lapse, as the case may be.      (e)  Approved Retirement  means
Termination:      (i) on or after any of the dates indicated below, with credit for purposes of reaching any such
date to include credit for service: (x) with any Affiliate; and (y) with American Life Insurance Company and any of its affiliates as of October 31, 2010 (collectively,  Alico ) (to the extent the Participant was an employee
of Alico as of October 31, 2010 and to the extent such service was recognized by Alico for any of its retirement plan purposes as of October 31, 2010):       
    (ii) on or after any date as of which the Participant s Termination is required
under applicable law or employer policy (excluding agreements or contractual obligations in either case applicable solely to an individual employee) in either case due to the Participant attaining a particular age, so long as the Participant has
service (as defined in Section 2.1(e)(i)) of at least one year; or      (iii) at times and under such
circumstances as determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion;       provided that,  in each case, the Administrator
may require, as a condition to a Participant s retirement being an  Approved Retirement  for purpose of the Plan, that the Participant enter into a general release of claims, non-solicitation and/or non-competition agreement in form
and substance satisfactory to the Administrator.   
         2   

(f)  Board  means the Board of Directors of the Company.
     (g)  Cause  means ( i ) the willful failure by the Participant to perform substantially
his duties as an Employee (or, should the Participant s employment transfer to the Company, as an employee of the Company)), other than due to physical or mental illness, after reasonable notice to the Participant of such failure,
( ii ) the Participant s engaging in serious misconduct that is injurious to the Company or any Affiliate in any way, including, but not limited to, by way of damage to their respective reputations or standings in their respective
industries, ( iii ) the Participant s having been convicted of, or having entered a plea of  nolo   contendere  to, a crime that constitutes a felony or ( iv ) the breach by the Participant of any written covenant
or agreement with the Company or any Affiliate not to disclose or misuse any information pertaining to, or misuse any property of, the Company or any Affiliate or not to compete or interfere with the Company or any Affiliate.   
  (h)  Change of Control  shall be deemed to have occurred if:   
  (i) any person (within the meaning of Section 3(a)(9) of the Act), including any group (within the meaning of
Rule 13d-5(b) under the Act), but excluding the MetLife Policyholder Trust (and any person(s) who would otherwise be described herein solely by reason of having the power to control the voting of the shares held by such Trust) and any employee
benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Affiliate thereof, acquires  beneficial ownership  (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company
representing 25% or more of the combined Voting Power of the Company s securities; or      (ii) within any
24-month period, the persons who were directors of the Company at the beginning of such period (the  Incumbent Directors ) shall cease to constitute at least a majority of the Board or the board of directors of any successor to the
Company;  provided ,  however , that any director elected to the Board, or nominated for election, by a majority of the Incumbent Directors then still in office shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director for purposes of this subclause
(ii); or      (iii) upon the consummation of a merger, consolidation, share exchange, division, sale or other
disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company which has been approved by the shareholders of the Company (a  Corporate Event ), and immediately following the consummation of which the stockholders of the Company
immediately prior to such Corporate Event do not hold, directly or indirectly, a majority of the Voting Power of ( x ) in the case of a merger or consolidation, the surviving or resulting corporation, ( y ) in the case of a share
exchange, the acquiring corporation or ( z ) in the case of a division or a sale or other disposition of assets, each surviving, resulting or acquiring corporation which, immediately following the relevant Corporate Event, holds more than
25% of the consolidated assets of the Company immediately prior to such Corporate Event; or   
         3   

(iv) any other event occurs which the Board declares to be a Change of
Control.      (i)  Change of Control Price  means the highest price per share of Common Stock offered in
conjunction with any transaction resulting in a Change of Control (as determined in good faith by the Administrator if any part of the offered price is payable other than in cash) or, in the case of a Change of Control occurring solely by reason of
a change in the composition of the Board, the highest Closing Price of the Common Stock on any of the 30 trading days immediately preceding the date on which a Change of Control occurs.   
  (j)  Closing Price  means, on any date, the closing price of Common Stock as reported in the principal
consolidated transaction reporting system for the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other recognized quotation system on which the trading prices of the Common Stock are quoted at the relevant time) on such date. In the event that there are no
Common Stock transactions reported on such tape (or such other system) on such date, Closing Price shall mean the closing price on the immediately preceding date on which Common Stock transactions were so reported.   
  (k)  Code  means the United States Internal Revenue Code.   
  (l)  Committee  means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, or the successor
committee to such committee, or any other duly authorized committee of such Board of Directors of the Company appointed by the Board of Directors of the Company to administer the Plan, or the Board of Directors of the Company, and the
Committee s designee or delegate.      (m)  Common Stock  means the common stock of the Company, par
value United States Dollars $0.01 per share.      (n)  Company  means MetLife, Inc., a Delaware
corporation, and any successor thereto.      (o)  Constructively Terminated  means a voluntary
Termination by an Employee within ten (10) business days after any of the following actions by the Company, Affiliate, or person acting on behalf of either:   
  (i) Requiring the Employee to be based as his/her regular or customary place employment at any office or location more
than fifty (50) miles from the location at which the Employee performed his/her duties immediately prior to the Change of Control, except for travel reasonably required in the performance of the individual s responsibilities;   
  (ii) reducing the Employee s base salary below the rate in effect at the time of a Change of Control; or   
  (iii) failing to pay the Employee s base salary, other wages, or employment-related benefits as required by law.
  
         4   

(p)  Disability  has the meaning given in such long-term
disability plan, program, or arrangement maintained by the Company or an Affiliate in which the Participant participates, or in such other long-term disability plan, program, or arrangement in which the Participant participates designated for
purposes of this definition at any time, and from time to time, by the Administrator.      (q)  Employee 
means any employee of any Affiliate, as determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Administrator may revise the definition of Employee so as to conform to the laws of any jurisdiction in accordance
with Section 4.3(c) below. For greater clarity, no employee of the Company shall be an Employee.      (r)
 Family Member  means, as to a Participant, any ( i ) child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law
(including adoptive relationships), of such Participant, ( ii ) trust for the exclusive benefit of such persons and ( iii ) other entity owned solely by such persons.   
  (s)  Participant  means any Employee designated by the Administrator or the Committee to participate in the
Plan.      (t)  Surrender  means a request in writing by the Participant (or another individual in lieu
of the Participant pursuant to Section 10.2 of the Plan) to receive payment pursuant to Section 6.4 of the Plan, made consistent with such procedures or rules regarding the form of such a request established from time to time by the
Administrator and received by the Plan Administrator or his designee.      (u)  Surrender Date  means the
next business day in New York City, New York after the date of actual receipt by the Plan Administrator or his designee of a notice of Surrender consistent with the terms of the Plan.   
  (v)  Grant Value  means a number determined for each Unit Option by the Administrator at the time of the grant
of such Unit Option under this Plan, consistent with Section 6.2 of this Plan.      (w)
 Termination  means the termination of employment, except that no transfer of employment between an Affiliate and the Company, or between an Affiliate and any other Affiliate will be considered a Termination.   
  (x)  Unit Option  means the conditional right to receive a cash payment equal to the difference between the
Closing Price of one share of Common Stock on the Surrender Date and the Grant Value, if such difference is greater than zero.      (y)  Unit Option Agreement  means an agreement in writing between the Participant and one or more Affiliates that shall specify the Grant Value of each Unit Option, the duration of each Unit
Option, the number of Unit Options granted, the effect of any Termination on Restricted Units, and such other terms and conditions as the Administrator shall determine which are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan.   
         5   

(z)  Voting Power  means such number of Voting Securities as shall
enable the holders thereof to cast all the votes which could be cast in an annual election of directors of a company, and  Voting Securities  shall mean all securities entitling the holders thereof to vote in an annual election of
directors of a company.      2.2.  Gender and Number . Except when otherwise indicated by the context, words in the masculine
gender used in the Plan shall include the feminine gender, the singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the singular.      ARTICLE III.      ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION   
  Participants in the Plan shall be those Employees selected by the Committee or the Administrator to be granted Units Options pursuant to
the Plan.      ARTICLE IV.      POWERS OF THE COMMITTEE AND THE ADMINISTRATOR      4.1.  Power to Grant .
     (a) The Committee and the Administrator shall determine the Employees to whom Unit Options shall be granted. The number of
Unit Options the Committee may grant shall be unlimited. The number of Unit Options the Administrator may grant to any individual Participant shall be limited to 50,000 in any 12-month period. The Administrator may not grant any Unit Options to any
individual who is (x) subject to Section 16 of the Act; (y) an executive officer of the Company; or (z) subject to Section 4230 of the New York Insurance Law, in each case unless the Committee approves or ratifies such a
grant.      (b) The Administrator shall determine the terms and conditions of any and all such Unit Options, including the terms
of any Unit Option Agreements. The Administrator may establish different terms and conditions for different Participants and for the same Participant for each Unit Option such Participant may receive, whether or not granted at different times.
Notwithstanding any other terms of this Plan, no grant of Unit Options shall be effective unless one or more Affiliates approves or ratifies the grant. The Committee s or Administrator s grant of Unit Options to an employee of MetLife
Group, Inc. shall constitute approval of the grant by MetLife Group, Inc.      4.2.  Repricing or Substitution of Unit
Options . The Administrator shall not have the right to reprice or otherwise change the Grant Value of any outstanding Unit Options or to grant new Unit Options under the Plan in substitution for or upon the cancellation of Unit Options
previously granted.   
         6   

4.3.  Administration .   
  (a)  Rules, Interpretations and Determinations . The Plan shall be administered by the Administrator. The Administrator shall have
full authority to interpret and administer the Plan, to establish, amend, and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, to provide for conditions deemed necessary or advisable to protect the interests of any Affiliate, to construe Unit
Option Agreements and to make all other determinations it determines necessary or advisable for the administration and interpretation of the Plan in order to carry out its provisions and purposes. Determinations, interpretations, or other actions
made or taken by the Administrator shall be final, binding, and conclusive for all purposes and upon all persons.      (b)
 Agents and Expenses . The Administrator may appoint agents (who may be officers or employees of the Company or any Affiliate) to assist in the administration of the Plan and may grant authority to such persons to execute agreements or other
documents on the Administrator s behalf. The Administrator may employ such legal counsel, consultants and agents as it may deem desirable for the administration of the Plan and may rely upon any opinion received from any such counsel or
consultant and any computation received from any such consultant or agent. All expenses incurred in the administration of the Plan, including, without limitation, for the engagement of any counsel, consultant or agent, shall be paid by the Company
or an Affiliate.      (c)  Adjustments to Conform With Law . Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, the
Administrator may, in its sole discretion, amend or vary the terms of the Plan in order to conform such terms with the requirements of local law or to meet the goals and objectives of the Plan, and may, in its sole discretion, establish
administrative rules and procedures to facilitate the operation of the Plan. The Administrator may, where it deems appropriate in its sole discretion, establish one or more sub-plans of the Plan for these purposes.   
  ARTICLE V.   
  ADJUSTMENTS TO UNIT OPTIONS      The Administrator will make appropriate adjustments in the terms and conditions of Units Options in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements (such as
a Common Stock dividend, Common Stock split, recapitalization, payment of an extraordinary dividend, merger, consolidation, combination, spin-off, distribution of assets to stockholders other than ordinary cash dividends, exchange of shares, or
other similar corporate change), or in recognition of changes to applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, to prevent unintended dilution or enlargement of the potential benefits of Unit Options. The Administrator s determinations
in this regard will be conclusive.   
         7   

ARTICLE VI.      UNIT OPTIONS      6.1.  Grant of Unit Options . Unit Options may be granted to
Participants at such time or times as shall be determined by the Committee or the Administrator. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Committee or the Administrator shall have complete discretion in determining the number of Unit Options, if
any, to be granted to a Participant. Notwithstanding any other terms of this Plan, no grant of Unit Options shall be effective unless one or more Affiliates approves or ratifies the grant and the terms thereof. The Committee s or the
Administrator s grant of Unit Options to an employee of MetLife Group, Inc. shall constitute approval of the grant by MetLife Group, Inc. Each Unit Option shall be evidenced by a Unit Option Agreement. Any Affiliate that approves or ratifies a
grant of Unit Option shall execute the applicable Unit Option Agreement through a representative.      6.2.  Grant Value .
Each Unit Option granted pursuant to the Plan shall have a Grant Value no less than the Closing Price of one share of Common Stock on the date the Unit Option is granted.      6.3.  Surrender of Unit Options . One-third of each grant of Unit Options made pursuant to the Plan shall become eligible for Surrender on each of the first three anniversaries of the date such Unit
Options were granted;  provided ,  further , that the Administrator may at the time of grant establish longer periods of service for Unit Options to become eligible for Surrender and may establish performance-based criteria for eligibility
for Surrender. Subject to the provisions of Article VII, once any Unit Option has become eligible for Surrender it shall remain eligible for Surrender for its full term. The Administrator shall determine the term of each Unit Option granted, but in
no event shall any such Unit Option remain eligible for Surrender for more than 10 years after the date on which it is granted.   
  6.4.  Payment . Following Surrender of a Unit Option, a cash payment equal to the Closing Price of one share of Common Stock on the
Surrender Date less the Grant Value of the Unit Option, if the result is greater than zero, shall be made to the Participant (or another individual in lieu of the Participant pursuant to Section 10.2 of the Plan). The Affiliate making payment
may make such payment in any currency chosen by it in its discretion.      6.3  Substitution . The Administrator may, at any
time prior to payment for Unit Options, in its sole discretion, may:      (a) find that the Company or an Affiliate has made an
award to the Participant, intended to substitute for Unit Options; that is in substantially the same form as the Unit Options and on the same material terms, but with payment due in Common Stock rather than cash (i.e., stock-payable share
appreciation rights); and      (c) in light of such findings, cancel the Unit Options without additional compensation to the
Participant.   
         8   

ARTICLE VII.      CHANGES OF STATUS      The applicable Unit Option Agreement will specify the effect
of changes of status including Disability, Termination (including Termination for Cause or Approved Retirement) on Units Options.      ARTICLE VIII.      CHANGE OF CONTROL   
  8.1.  Accelerated Vesting and Payment . Subject to the provisions of Section 8.2, in the event of a Change of Control each Unit
Option shall be fully eligible for Surrender regardless of the Surrender eligibility schedule otherwise applicable to such Unit Option and, in the even of the Participant s involuntarily Termination for any reason other than Cause within twelve
(12) months of such Change of Control, the Participant shall have until the earlier of (i) twelve (12) months following such termination date, or (ii) the term of the Unit Option, to exercise the Unit Option. In connection with
such a Change of Control, the Administrator may, in exercise of discretion, provide that each Unit Option shall, upon the occurrence of such Change of Control, be canceled in exchange for a payment in an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the
Change of Control Price over the Grant Value for such Unit Option.      8.2.  Alternative Awards . Notwithstanding
Section 8.1, no cancellation, acceleration of eligibility for Surrender, vesting, cash settlement or other payment shall occur with respect to any Unit Option if the Administrator reasonably determines in good faith prior to the occurrence of a
Change of Control that such Unit Option shall be honored or assumed, or an Alternative Award substituted therefor, by a Participant s employer (or the parent or an affiliate of such employer) immediately following the Change of Control.
     ARTICLE IX.      AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION, AND TERMINATION OF PLAN      The Administrator may amend or
terminate the Plan at any time in its sole discretion. No amendment or termination of the Plan shall in any manner adversely affect any Unit Option theretofore granted under the Plan without the consent of the Participant.   
         9   

SECTION X.      MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS      10.1.  Nature and Transferability of Unit
Options . No Unit Option shall be considered a property interest of any Participant, and such Unit Option shall have no value except as a means of determining, in part, the amount of payments, if any, under the Plan. Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, no Unit Option may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution;  provided  that the Administrator may, in the Unit
Option Agreement or otherwise, permit transfers of rights regarding Unit Options by gift or a domestic relations order to Family Members.      10.2.  No Guarantee of Employment or Participation . Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of any Affiliate to terminate any Participant s employment or service
at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue in the employ of any Affiliate. No Employee shall have a right to be selected as a Participant, or, having been so selected, to receive any future Unit Options.   
  10.3  Tax Withholding and Currency . Each Affiliate shall have the power to withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the
Affiliate, an amount sufficient to satisfy any applicable withholding tax requirements imposed by any competent authority on any Unit Option under the Plan, and the Affiliate may defer any payment until such requirements are satisfied. Any Affiliate
may make any payment under this Plan in any currency chosen by the Affiliate in its discretion.      10.4.  No Limitation on
Compensation . Nothing in the Plan shall be construed to limit the right of the Company or any Affiliate to establish other plans, programs, agreements, or arrangements.      10.5.  Requirements of Law . The granting of Unit Options and payments upon Surrender thereof shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, to such approvals by any governmental
agencies as may be required, and to any Company policy on insider trading.      10.6.  Term of Plan . The Plan as amended and
restated shall be effective upon its execution by the Administrator. The Plan shall continue in effect until terminated pursuant to Article IX.      10.7.  Governing Law . The Plan and all Unit Option Agreements hereunder shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware of the United States of America,
without regard to principles of conflict of laws.      10.8.  No Impact on Benefits . Except as may otherwise be specifically
stated under any employee benefit plan, policy or program, Unit Options shall not be treated as compensation for purposes of calculating an Employee s right under any such plan, policy or program.   
         10   

10.9.  No Constraint on Corporate Action . Nothing in this Plan shall be construed
( i ) to limit, impair or otherwise affect the Company s or any Affiliate s right or power to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or consolidate, or
dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its business or assets or ( ii ) except as provided in Article IX, to limit the right or power of the Company or any Affiliate to take any action which such entity deems to be
necessary or appropriate.      10.10.  Unfunded Plan . This Plan shall be unfunded and shall not create (or be construed to
create) a trust or separate fund. Likewise, this Plan shall not establish any fiduciary relationship between the Company or any Affiliate or the Administrator and the Participant. To the extent that any Participant holds any rights by virtue of
being granted a Unit Option under this Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of any Affiliate that approves or ratifies the grant of Unit Options to such Participant.   
  10.11.  Obligor . The obligation to make payments due under each Unit Option Agreement, if any, shall be the sole obligation of the
Affiliate that enters into such Unit Option Agreement. In no event shall the Company be obligated to make payments due under this Plan pursuant to any Unit Option Agreement. Payment due from any Affiliate in relation to any Performance Units may be
made on behalf of that Affiliate by any other Affiliate.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Plan Administrator has adopted this Plan, as amended and
restated effective February 23, 2010.       

PLAN ADMINISTRATOR  

/s/ Dennis J. Shiel    
 
  Dennis J. Shiel  

Date:  
     
    7/21/11   

11   

</EX-10.48>

<EX-10.49>
 18
 d302570dex1049.htm
 FORM OF UNIT OPTION AGREEMENT

Form of Unit Option Agreement 

Exhibit 10.49        UNIT OPTION AGREEMENT        [Company]  (the  Global Affiliate )
confirms that, on               , 20      , (the  Grant Date ) you were granted
                  ,        Unit Options, and approves or ratifies such grant. Each Unit Option entitles you to receive a cash payment equal
to the Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock on the Surrender Date less $      .       (the  Grant Value ), if the difference is greater than zero. Your Unit Options are subject to
the terms and conditions of this Agreement and of the MetLife International Unit Option Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). Any payment due under this Agreement may be made on behalf of the Global Affiliate by any one or more Affiliates (each
such Affiliate(s) making any such payment will be known as a  Paying Affiliate ). Unless otherwise specified, the word  Section  refers to a Section in this Agreement. Any other capitalized word used in this Agreement but not
defined here is defined in the Plan.       1.  Normal Term of Your Options .  Except as provided in Sections 3 and 4:

(a)  
  one-third of your Unit Options granted hereunder will become eligible for Surrender on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of the Grant Date;

(b)  
    you may Surrender your Unit Options which are eligible for Surrender until the close of business in New York City on
              , 20       [day bef 10   th    anniv of Grant Date] (the  Expiration Date ), and      

(c)  
  you need not Surrender all of your Unit Options at one time.         2.  Method of Surrender; Form of Payment .  You may Surrender any of your Unit Options that have become eligible for Surrender by notifying the Administrator in writing, using procedures that
will be established for this purpose. (As defined in the Plan, the Surrender Date for a Unit Option is the next business date in New York City, New York, United States, after your Surrender of that Unit Option.) Payment will be made in a currency
chosen by the Paying Affiliate.       3.  Changes of Status .  For purposes of this Section 3, your transfer
between an Affiliate and any other Affiliate or the Company will not be a termination of employment.      (a)  Disability .
In the event of your Disability, your Unit Options will become eligible for Surrender just as they would have if you remained in active service and, once your Unit Options are eligible for Surrender, they may be Surrendered at any time until the
close of business on the Expiration Date. Any of your Unit Options that are not Surrendered within that period will be forfeited. Once this Section 3(a) applies, Sections 3(b), (c), (e) and (f) will not apply to your Unit Options,
even if you subsequently return to active service or terminate employment with the any Affiliate or the Company for any reason.   
  (b)  Death . In the event that your employment with the any Affiliate or the Company terminates due to your death, all of your Unit
Options will become fully eligible for Surrender as of the date of your death and will remain so until the close of business on the Expiration Date. Any of your Unit Options that are not Surrendered within that period will be forfeited.   

(c)  Approved Retirement . If your employment with any Affiliate or the Company
terminates due to your Approved Retirement, your Unit Options will become eligible for Surrender just as if you had not retired, and you may Surrender your Unit Options which are eligible for Surrender at any time until the close of business on the
Expiration Date. Any of your Unit Options that are not Surrendered within that period will be forfeited. Subject to Section 2.1(c) of the Plan, you do not need special approval from the Administrator for an Approved Retirement.   
  (d)  Termination for Cause . Notwithstanding any other terms of this Section 3, in the event that your employment with any
Affiliate or the Company is terminated for Cause, all of your Unit Options not yet Surrendered will be forfeited immediately.   
  (e)  Other Termination of Employment . Unless the Administrator determines otherwise, if your employment with any Affiliate or the
Company terminates for any reason other than those listed in paragraphs (b), (c), (d) or (e) of this Section 3, including, for example, your voluntary termination of employment or your termination by the any Affiliate or the Company
without Cause, your Unit Options that are eligible for Surrender as of the date of termination will remain eligible for Surrender for a period of 30 days or until the close of business on the Expiration Date, whichever period is shorter. All of your
Unit Options that are not eligible for Surrender at the date of termination will be forfeited immediately, as will any Unit Option that is not Surrendered within that period.       4.  Change of Control .       (a)  Accelerated Exercisability and
Payment . Except as provided in Section 4(b), if a Change of Control occurs, all of your outstanding Unit Options not yet eligible for Surrender will become eligible for Surrender immediately, regardless of the applicable Surrender
eligibility schedule, and, if your employment is involuntarily terminated for any reason other than Cause within twelve (12) months of such Change of Control, you will have until the earlier of (i) twelve (12) months following such
termination date, or (ii) the Expiration Date, to exercise your Unit Options. However, the Administrator may elect to redeem your Unit Options for a cash payment equal to the Change of Control Price less the Grant Value, multiplied by the
number of exercisable Unit Options that you have not yet Surrendered.      (b)  Alternative Award . Notwithstanding
Section 4(a), your Unit Options will not become eligible for Surrender immediately, and they will not be subject to being redeemed with a cash payment to you, if the Administrator reasonably determines in good faith, prior to the Change of
Control, that your Unit Options will be honored or assumed, or new rights substituted for the outstanding Unit Options (referred to as an  Alternative Award ) by your employer or an affiliate immediately after the Change of Control. Any
Alternative Award must:       

(1)  
  be based on stock which is traded on an established securities market, or that the Administrator reasonably believes will be traded on an established securities market
within 60 days after the Change of Control;     
         2   

(2)  
  provide you with rights substantially equivalent to or better than the rights applicable to your Unit Options (including, but not limited to, an identical or better
exercise or surrender eligibility schedule, and identical or better timing and methods of payment);         

(3)  
  have substantially equivalent economic value to your Unit Options (determined at the time of the Change of Control); and     

(4)  
  provide that, in the event that your employment is involuntarily or Constructively Terminated after a Change of Control, any conditions imposed on your rights under an
Alternative Award, including any restrictions on transfer, surrender eligibility, or exercisability of any Alternative Award, will be waived or will lapse.         5.  Nontransferability of Awards .  You may not sell, transfer, pledge, assign or otherwise alienate or hypothecate any of your Unit Options, other than by will or by the laws of descent and
distribution. All rights with respect to your Unit Options are exercisable or eligible for Surrender during your lifetime only by you.       6.  Estate .  Your rights under this Agreement will pass to and may be exercised or Surrendered after your death by your estate, except as otherwise required by law. Any payments due you under
this Agreement not paid to you as of your death will be paid to your estate, except as otherwise required by law.     
   7.  Tax Withholding .  The Paying Affiliate may withhold, or require you to remit, an amount sufficient to satisfy any
applicable withholding tax requirements relating to the Surrender of your Unit Options, and the Paying Affiliate may defer payment until this requirement is satisfied. Regardless of any action the Paying Affiliate takes with respect to any or all
tax withholding (including social insurance contributions and payment on account obligations, if any), you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all such taxes is and remains your responsibility (or that of your estate) and that no Affiliate
makes any representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with any aspect of any Unit Option, including the grant, eligibility for Surrender, or Surrender of the Unit Option, and that neither the
Administrator nor any Affiliate commits to structure the terms of the grant of or any aspect of any Unit Option to reduce or eliminate your (or you estate s or any heir s) liability for such tax.   
   8.  Adjustment of Unit Options .  The Administrator will make appropriate adjustments in the terms and conditions of your
Units Options in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements as provided in the Plan. The Administrator s determination in this regard will be conclusive.   
   9.  Governing Law; Choice of Forum .  This Agreement will be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the
State of Delaware of the United States of America, regardless of the law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws. Any action to enforce this Agreement or any action otherwise regarding this Agreement must be brought in a court in
the State of New York of the United States of America, to which jurisdiction the Administrator, the Global Affiliate, and you consent, to the maximum extent consistent with law.   
         3   

10.  Interpretation; Construction .  Any determination or interpretation by the
Administrator pursuant to this Agreement will be final and conclusive. In the event of a conflict between any term of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan control.   
   11.  Entire Agreement.   This Agreement and the Plan represent the entire agreement between you and the Global Affiliate
regarding your Unit Options. No promises, terms, or agreements of any kind regarding your Unit Options that are not set forth in this Agreement or in the Plan, or to which there is no reference in this Agreement or the Plan, are part of this
Agreement.       12.  Amendments .  The Administrator has the exclusive right to amend this Agreement as long as the
amendment is consistent with the Plan. The Administrator will give written notice to you (or, in the event of your death, to your estate) of any amendment as promptly as practicable after its adoption.   
   13.  No Right to Future Grants; No Right of Employment .  This Agreement is not a contract of employment and it is not a
guarantee of employment for life or any period of time. Nothing in this Agreement interferes with or limits in any way the right of any Affiliate to terminate your employment at any time. This Agreement does not give you any right to continue in the
employ of any Affiliate. In accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that: (a) the Plan is established voluntarily, and this Unit Option Agreement is established voluntarily by the Global Affiliate, and that each is discretionary in nature and
may be modified, suspended or terminated by the Administrator at any time, as provided in the Plan and this Agreement, respectively; (b) the grant of the Unit Options is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other
right to receive future grants of Unit Options, or benefits in lieu of Unit Options, even if Unit Options have been granted repeatedly in the past; (c) all decisions with respect to future Unit Option grants, if any, will be at the sole
discretion of the Administrator, including, but not limited to, the timing of any grants, the number of Unit Options and vesting provisions; (d) your participation in the Plan is voluntary; (e) the Unit Option is an extraordinary item that
does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company, and which is outside the scope of your employment contract, if any; (f) the Unit Options are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary
for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments; (g) the Unit Option
grant will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with any Affiliate or the Company; (h) the future Fair Market Value of Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty; (i) if the Fair Market
Value of Common Stock does not increase during the term of your Unit Options, your Unit Options will have no value; (j) to the fullest extent permitted by law, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from termination of the
Unit Options or diminution in value of the Unit Options and you irrevocably release the Administrator, the Company, and each Affiliate from any such claim that may arise; and (k) in the event of the termination of your employment, neither your
eligibility, nor any right to receive Unit Options, nor any period within which your Unit Options may become eligible for Surrender, if any, will not be extended beyond the period   
         4   

specified under this Agreement by any notice period mandated under law ( e.g. , active employment would not include a period of  garden leave  or similar period pursuant to local
law); furthermore, in the event of termination of employment, your right to Surrender the Unit Options, if any, will not be extended by any notice period mandated under law.       14.    Employee Data Privacy  . You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this
document by the Administrator, any Affiliate, or the Company, for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Administrator, any Affiliate, and the Company hold certain
personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, or shares of stock or directorships
held in Affiliates, and the Company, details of all Unit Options awarded, canceled, Surrendered, eligible for surrender, and/or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ( Data ). You
understand that the Administrator, Affiliates, or the Company will transfer Data amongst themselves as necessary for the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the
implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, and that the recipient s country may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You
understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data,
in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party. You understand that Data
will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan, including but not limited to any applicable retention period necessary for effective or lawful administration of the Plan. You understand
that you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any amendments to Data that are required by applicable law or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by
contacting in writing your local human resources representative. You are not obligated to consent to the collection, use, processing and transfer of Data. However, you understand that if you refuse to grant consent under this Section 14 by
failing to accept this Agreement you will not receive any Unit Options pursuant to this Agreement, and that if you subsequently withdraw your consent under this Section 14 you will forfeit any of your Unit Options you have not yet Surrendered.
You understand that you may contact your local human resources representative for more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent.       15.  Severability .  The provisions of this Agreement are severable and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining
provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable.       16.  Nature of Obligation .  You acknowledge that,
subject to the terms of Section 19 of this Agreement, the obligation to make payments due under this Unit Option agreement, if any, shall be the sole obligation of the Global Affiliate, but may be satisfied by any Affiliate on behalf of the
Global Affiliate, and shall be unfunded and unsecured. In no event shall the Company be   
         5   

obligated to make payments due under this Unit Option Agreement. The Global Affiliate and you agree and acknowledge that, to the extent consistent with applicable law, neither the Unit Options,
this Agreement, the Plan nor any rights, obligations, terms and conditions set forth therein or in connection therewith, constitute securities, negotiable instruments, or derivatives instruments or transactions.   
   17.  Currency; Exchange Rate .  Payments pursuant to Section 4 of this Agreement will be made in your then-current
payroll currency (or another currency of your choosing) at a reasonable US currency exchange rate chosen in good faith by the Paying Affiliate. Otherwise, any payment due to you will be made in your then-current payroll currency (or other currency
of the Paying Affiliate s choosing) at a US currency exchange rate determined by the Paying Affiliate in its discretion.   
   18.  Consideration .  To the extent any separate or additional consideration is necessary under applicable law to effectuate
the parties  intentions to be bound by the terms of this Agreement, you agree to pay US$1.00 (One Dollar 00/100 currency of the United States of America) to the Global Affiliate, which shall not be refundable to you.   
   19.  Substitution of Stock-Based Award  . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the Administrator may,
at any time prior to payment for your Unit Options, in its sole discretion, find that the Company or an Affiliate has made an award to you, intended to substitute for your Unit Options, that is in substantially the same form as your Unit Options and
on the same material terms, but with payment due in Common Stock rather than cash (i.e., stock-payable share appreciation rights). Upon such a finding, the Administrator may, in its sole discretion, cancel your Unit Options in light of that
substitute award without additional compensation to you.       20.  Miscellaneous Terms .  Your Unit Options are not
Common Stock or the right to acquire Common Stock and do not give you the rights of a holder of Common Stock. Payment pursuant to Surrender of your Unit Options is subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations, to any approvals by any
governmental agencies as may be required, and to any Company policy on insider trading. No payment will be made upon Surrender of any of your Unit Options if that payment or Surrender would result in a violation of such law, rule, regulation,
approval, or policy. Your Unit Options are subject to the Company s performance-based compensation recoupment policy (which currently covers only officers or officer-equivalent employees of the Company and its Affiliates) in effect from time to
time. As a condition of the grant confirmed in this Agreement, you agree to take any and all actions, and consent to any and all actions taken by the Administrator, Company, Global Affiliate, or any Affiliate as may be required to comply with any
laws, rules and regulations. In addition, you agree to take any and all actions as may be required to comply with your personal legal and tax obligations under laws, rules and regulations. Any or all documents related to awards granted to you under
the Plan may be delivered to you by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to engage in any transaction under the Plan through any on-line or electronic system as may be established and
maintained for that purpose. You acknowledge and agree that it is your express intent that this Agreement, the Plan and all other documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant to the award, be drawn up in
English. If you have received this Agreement, the Plan or any other   
         6   

documents related to the award translated into a language other than English, and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control
except as otherwise required by law. The Administrator and the Global Affiliate reserve the right to impose other requirements on awards granted to you under the Plan to the extent that the Administrator or the Global Affiliate determines, in its
sole discretion, that such other requirements are necessary or advisable in order to comply with law or to facilitate the administration of the Plan.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Global Affiliate has caused their duly authorized officers to execute, and you have executed, this Agreement effective on the Grant Date.   

[Company]   

EMPLOYEE   

By:  

Signature  

Signature   

Name  

Name   

Title  

7   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Plan Administrator has approved this form of Unit Option Agreement pursuant to the
MetLife International Unit Option Incentive Plan effective February 23, 2011.       
 
         8   

</EX-10.49>

<EX-10.58>
 19
 d302570dex1058.htm
 RESOLUTIONS OF THE METLIFE, INC.

Resolutions of the MetLife, Inc. 

Exhibit 10.58    

MetLife, Inc.   

Board of Directors  

December 13, 2011      ON MOTION, it was RESOLVED that the Board of Directors approved the following resolution:       

(1)  
  That the Annual Variable Incentive Plan ( AVIP ) awards for 2012 performance shall constitute Cash-Based Awards under the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and
Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Stock and Incentive Plan          

(2)  
  That the measures to be used to determine performance results for establishing the amount to be available for payment of awards under AVIP for 2012 performance (the
 2012 Available Amount ) are approved in all respects substantially in the form described in the memorandum presented to the Board and filed with the records of the meeting, subject to Committee discretion to increase or decrease the 2012
Available Amount;         

(a)  
  Positive Company income from continuing operations before provision for income tax, excluding net investment gains (losses) (determined in accordance with
Section 3(a) of Article 7.04 of SEC Regulation S-X), which includes total net investment gains (losses) and net derivatives gains (losses), as presented in the financial statements in the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2010, for
2012.         

(b)  
  Positive MetLife, Inc. Proportionate Total Shareholder Return, as defined for MetLife, Inc. in Section 1(d)(2) of the form of Management Performance Share
Agreement used for awards for the 2011-2013 Performance Period (the  Performance Share Agreement ), for 2012.         

(4)  
  That the Chief Executive Officer of the Company ( CEO ) and each other member of the Company s Executive Group shall be eligible for an AVIP award for
2012 of $10 million if any one or more of the 2012 Section 162(m) Goals is met;  provided, however , that the Committee shall retain the ability, in its discretion, to reduce the amount of the award payable (including reducing the amount
payable to zero) based on such factors or considerations that the Committee shall deem appropriate, including but not limited to the amounts that would have been payable to the CEO or other member of the Company s Executive Group, respectively,
under the methodology applicable to other employees under AVIP;     

(5)  
  That if the Company does not meet any of the 2012 Section 162(m) Goals, neither the CEO nor any of the other members of the Company s Executive Group shall be
eligible for any AVIP award for 2012, with the exception of any AVIP award that has been guaranteed in writing with the previous approval of the Committee or Board of Directors; and     

(6)  
  That the Officers of the Company be and hereby are authorized, in the name and on behalf of the Company, to (a) take or cause to be taken any and all such further
actions and to prepare, execute and deliver or cause to be prepared, executed and delivered, and where necessary or appropriate, file or cause to be filed with the appropriate governmental authorities, all such other instruments and documents,
including but not limited to all certificates, contracts, bonds, agreements, documents, instruments, receipts or other papers, (b) incur and pay or cause to be paid all fees and expenses and (c) engage such persons, in each case as such
Officer shall in that Officer s judgment determine to be necessary or appropriate to carry out fully the intent and purposes of the foregoing resolutions and each of the transactions contemplated thereby.     

</EX-10.58>

<EX-10.66>
 20
 d302570dex1066.htm
 AMENDMENT NUMBER THREE TO THE METLIFE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR OFFICERS

Amendment Number Three to the MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for Officers 

Exhibit 10.66        Amendment Number Three to        The MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for
Officers        (as amended and restated as of November 1, 2003) (the  Plan )    
  The Plan is hereby amended in the manner set forth below, to the extent consistent with legal requirements to maintain the deferred
status of compensation credited under the Plan, including the grandfathered status of such deferrals precluding the applicability of United States Internal Revenue Code Section 409A:   
  1. Section 6 is amended and restated to read as follows:   

6.  
   Investment Tracking Funds . The methods of Investment Tracking described in or determined under this Section 6 shall be available for Deferral Elections and
Reallocation Elections. To the extent the methods of Investment Tracking are changed, or otherwise as the Plan Administrator determines in its discretion, the Plan Administrator may require the Participant to make an appropriate change in the
Participant s Investment Tracking or may unilaterally impose a method of Investment Tracking.         

6.1.  
  MetLife Deferred Shares Fund. Value tracked in the MetLife Deferred Shares Fund shall be accounted in number of tracking shares equal to the number of shares of MetLife
Stock deferred and adjusted to simulate the effect of each and any of the following on the Stock Compensation had it been paid in MetLife Stock: (a) dividend; (b) stock dividend; (c) stock split; (d) MetLife, Inc.
recapitalization (including, but not limited, to the payment of an extraordinary dividend), (e) merger, consolidation, combination, or spin-off affecting MetLife, Inc. capitalization; (f) distribution of MetLife, Inc. assets to holders of
MetLife Stock (other than ordinary cash dividends); (g) exchange of shares, or (h) other similar corporate change. Unless otherwise determined by the Plan Administrator, only the value of a Participant s Deferred Stock Compensation
Account may be tracked in the MetLife Deferred Shares Fund.         

6.2.  
  Other Investment Tracking Funds. Except as provided in Section 6.1, and to the extent consistent with legal requirements to maintain the deferred status of
compensation credited under the Plan, including the grandfathered status of such deferrals precluding the applicability of United States Internal Revenue Code Section 409A, the Plan Administrator shall determine in its discretion any method(s)
of Investment Tracking that will be available from time to time.        2. This Amendment will be effective
immediately upon execution.   

3. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the Plan (including any amendments
thereto) shall continue in full force and effect without amendment.       

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this amendment is approved.   

PLAN ADMINISTRATOR   

/s/ Andrew J. Bernstein for Margery Brittain    
 
  Date: 2-26-07   
 
  Witness:  /s/ Joo Young
Kang                                      

</EX-10.66>

<EX-10.67>
 21
 d302570dex1067.htm
 METLIFE LEADERSHIP DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

MetLife Leadership Deferred Compensation Plan 

Exhibit 10.67      THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS      COVERING SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN
REGISTERED      UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED.   
  MetLife Leadership Deferred Compensation Plan      (as amended and restated effective with respect to      salary and Cash Incentive
Compensation January 1, 2005,      and with respect to Stock Compensation April 15, 2005)   

1.  
  PURPOSE. The purpose of the Plan is to provide an opportunity for Participants, a select group of highly compensated employees within the meaning of Sections 201(2) and
301(a)(3) of ERISA, to delay receipt of certain compensation until a later date, at which time payment of the compensation will be made after adjustment for the simulated investment experience of such compensation from the date of deferral. The Plan
is intended to be maintained in compliance with Legal Deferral Requirements and requirements for the registration of debt incurred by MetLife, Inc. under the Plan with the Securities and Exchange Commission on a form S-8.     

2.  
  PLAN ADMINISTRATION.         

2.1.  
  The Plan Administrator shall administer the Plan.         

2.2.  
  The Plan Administrator may establish, amend, and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, provide for conditions necessary or advisable to protect the
interest of the Affiliates, construe all communications related to the Plan, and make all other determinations it deems necessary or advisable for the administration and interpretation of the Plan. The Plan Administrator may conform any provision of
this Plan to the extent such provision is inconsistent with Legal Deferral Requirements.         

2.3.  
  Determinations, interpretations, and other actions made by the Plan Administrator shall be final, binding, and conclusive for all purposes and upon all individuals.

2.4.  
  The Plan Administrator may prescribe forms as the sole and exclusive means for Participants to take actions authorized or allowed under the Plan. The Plan Administrator
may issue communications to Eligible Associates and Participants as it deems necessary or appropriate in connection with the Plan (including but not limited to communications explaining the risks and potential benefits of the Investment Tracking
Funds). Subject to the provisions of Section 19 of this Plan, the Plan Administrator may, in its discretion, adjust the value of Deferred Compensation Accounts on a basis other than as prescribed in Deferral Elections or Reallocation Elections,
including but not limited to the use of Investment Tracking Funds other than those selected by the Participant.         

2.5.  
  Except to the extent prohibited by law, communication by the Plan Administrator (and by an Eligible Associate or Participant to the extent authorized by the Plan
Administrator) of any document or writing, including any document or writing that must be executed by a party, may be in an electronic form of communication.     

2.6.  
  The Plan Administrator may appoint such agents, who may be officers or employees of an Affiliate, as it deems necessary or appropriate to assist it in administering the
Plan and may grant authority to such agents to execute documents and take action on its behalf. The Plan Administrator may consult such legal counsel, consultants, or other professional as it deems desirable and may rely on any opinion received from
any such professional or from its agent. All expenses incurred in the administration of the Plan shall be paid by one or more of the Affiliates.         

3.  
  ELIGIBILITY TO PARTICIPATE. Each Eligible Associate shall be eligible to participate in this Plan; provided, however, that unless the Plan Administrator determines
otherwise, no otherwise Eligible Associate who, at the individual s election or request, receives an accelerated payment pursuant to the terms of any non-qualified deferred compensation plan in which the individual participated by virtue of
employment with any MetLife Company shall be eligible to participate in this Plan with regard to Compensation payable in any calendar year prior to the calendar year next beginning after the third anniversary of such payment is made.

4.  
  DEFERRAL ELECTIONS.         

4.1.  
  At such times as are determined by the Plan Administrator, each Eligible Associate may complete and submit to the Plan Administrator a Deferral Election applicable to
the Eligible Associate s Compensation payable for services performed in such periods on and after January 1, 2005 and following the date of the Deferral Election (or other such periods consistent with Legal Deferral Requirements) determined by
the Plan Administrator. Within thirty (30) days after attaining the status of Eligible Associate in his or her first calendar year as an Officer or 090 Employee, such Eligible Associate may complete and submit to the Plan Administrator a Deferral
Election applicable to the Eligible Associate s Compensation payable for services in the current calendar year or other periods following the date of the Deferral Election (or other such periods consistent with Legal Deferral Requirements)
determined by the Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator shall prescribe the form(s) of Deferral Election.         

4.2.  
    The Plan Administrator may offer an Eligible Participant the opportunity to indicate each or any of the following, either separately or in combination,
in a Deferral Election: (a) the percentage, in increments of 5%, or maximum dollar amount of salary (which, for greater clarity, shall not include any payments under any such plans contingent on a separation agreement, release, or similar agreement)
that would otherwise be paid the receipt of which the Eligible Associate wishes to defer into a Deferred Cash Compensation Account, which shall be no greater than 75% of salary; (b) the percentage, in increments of 5%, or (except for payments under
the Long Term Performance Compensation Plan, International Long Term Performance Compensation Plan, or payments to an 090 Employee) maximum dollar amount of Cash Incentive Compensation, by plan under which such Compensation may be payable, that
would otherwise be paid the receipt of which the Eligible Associate wishes to defer into a Deferred Cash Compensation Account (PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that if the Participant expresses a maximum dollar amount of Cash Incentive Compensation for deferral
and the amount of Cash Incentive Compensation actually payable to the Participant is less than the maximum dollar amount specified, the Deferral Election shall be deemed to apply to the full amount of the Cash Incentive Compensation); (c) the
percentage, in      
         2   

increments of 5%, of Stock Compensation that would otherwise be paid the receipt of which the Eligible Associate wishes to defer into a Deferred Stock Compensation Account; (d) the percentage, in
increments of 5%, of cash payments under the Long Term Performance Compensation Plan which the Eligible Associate wishes to defer into a Deferred Stock Compensation Account; (e) the Investment Tracking Fund(s) which the Eligible Participant selects
to adjust the value of the Deferred Cash Compensation Account and the value of the Matching Contribution Account, in increments of 5%; (f) the date on which the Eligible Participant wishes the payment of the Deferred Stock Compensation Account to
begin; (g) the date on which the Eligible Participant wishes the payment of the Deferred Cash Compensation Account and Matching Contribution Account to begin; (h) whether the Deferred Compensation Accounts are to be paid in a single lump sum or
annual installments; and (i) if the Deferred Compensation Accounts are to be paid in annual installments, the number (not to exceed fifteen (15)) of such installments. If, upon Employment Discontinuance, the Participant is Retirement Eligible or
will be deemed to be Retirement Eligible upon attaining age 55, the Participant s elections regarding Cash Incentive Compensation and/or Deferred Stock Compensation shall be applied to any such compensation otherwise payable after the
Participant s Employment Discontinuance.         

4.3.  
  Each Deferral Election that specifies any deferral of salary in terms of a maximum dollar amount rather than in percentage terms must specify deferral of at least two
hundred dollars ($200) of salary per pay period. Each Deferral Election that specifies any deferral of Cash Incentive Compensation in terms of a maximum dollar amount rather than in percentage terms must specify deferral of at least five thousand
dollars ($5,000) of Cash Incentive Compensation per year.         

4.4.  
  Each Deferral Election shall indicate the date(s) on which the Eligible Associate wishes the payment of a Deferred Compensation Account to begin by indicating either:
(a) a single date certain that is no earlier than January 1 of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the third anniversary of the latest date any Compensation subject to the Deferral Election would have otherwise been paid; or (b)
the date of the Eligible Associate s termination of employment when Retirement Eligible.         

4.5.  
  The Plan Administrator may, in its discretion, reject and/or reform any Deferral Election, in whole or in part, due to (a) inconsistency of the Deferral Election with
this Plan; (b) inconsistency of the Deferral Election with employer compliance with legal requirements (including those regarding sufficient tax withholding and those regarding payroll taxation for FICA or otherwise); (c) inconsistency of the
Deferral Election with requirements for employee contributions or premium payments from compensation under the terms of any plan; (d) inconsistency of the Deferral Election with Legal Deferral Requirements; or (e) any other lawful basis.

4.6.  
  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Plan, no Compensation payable to a Participant less than one-hundred eighty (180) days after the first day of the second
calendar month following a hardship payment to the Participant under SIP or other qualified deferred compensation plan in which the individual participates by virtue of employment with any Affiliate shall be deferred under this Plan.
    
         3   

4.7.  
  No election by an Eligible Associate of the percentage of cash payments under the Long Term Performance Compensation Plan which the Eligible Associate wishes to defer
into a Deferred Stock Compensation Account under Section 4.2(d) of this Plan shall be made in violation of the Insider Trading Policy promulgated by MetLife, Inc. or an Affiliate. To the extent such an election is in violation of that policy, the
amount of cash payments under the Long Term Performance Compensation Plan which the Eligible Associate specified for deferral into a Deferred Stock Compensation Account shall instead be deferred as Cash Incentive Compensation into a Deferred Cash
Compensation Account.         

4.8.  
  For purposes of applicable determinations pursuant to Legal Deferral Requirements, to the extent any Deferred Compensation Account is to be paid in annual installments,
such payments shall constitute a single payment.         

5.  
  INVESTMENT TRACKING.         

5.1.  
  Except as provided in Sections 2.4 and 5.2 of this Plan, the value of each Participant s Deferred Cash Compensation Account and Matching Contribution Account shall
be adjusted to reflect the simulated investment performance on a Total Return Basis using the Investment Tracking Funds described in Section 6 of this Plan, on the same basis as if the value of such Deferred Compensation Accounts had been invested
in such Investment Tracking Funds, for such period(s) of time determined under the Plan until they are paid. To the extent permitted by the Plan Administrator, each Participant may select from among the Investment Tracking Funds for purposes of such
valuation in the Participant s Deferral Election and Reallocation Elections.         

5.2.  
  Except as provided in Section 2.4 of this Plan, the value of a Participant s Deferred Stock Compensation Account, and only the value of such Deferred Stock
Compensation Account, shall be adjusted using the MetLife Deferred Shares Fund as provided in Section 6.1 of this Plan, on the same basis as if the Participant had invested in the number of shares of MetLife Stock constituting such deferred Stock
Compensation (on a Total Return Basis) for such period(s) of time determined by the Deferral Election until it is paid.         

5.3.  
  The number of shares of MetLife Stock represented by cash payments under the Long Term Performance Compensation Plan deferred into a Deferred Stock Compensation Account
pursuant to the terms of Section 4.2(d) of this Plan shall be initially determined by dividing the amount of the cash payment deferred by the Fair Market Value of the MetLife Stock on the date such payment was granted to the Participant under the
terms of the Long Term Performance Compensation Plan, and shall thereafter be subject to Investment Tracking on the same terms as the balance of the Deferred Stock Compensation Account under Section 5.2 of this Plan.     

6.  
  INVESTMENT TRACKING FUNDS. The methods of Investment Tracking described in or determined under this Section 6 shall be available for Deferral Elections and Reallocation
Elections. To the extent the methods of Investment Tracking are changed, or otherwise as the Plan Administrator determines in its discretion, the Plan Administrator may require the Participant to make an appropriate change in the Participant s
Investment Tracking or may unilaterally impose a method of Investment Tracking.     
         4   

6.1.  
  MetLife Deferred Shares Fund. Value tracked in the MetLife Deferred Shares Fund shall be accounted in number of tracking shares equal to the number of shares of MetLife
Stock deferred and adjusted to simulate the effect of each and any of the following on the Stock Compensation had it been paid in MetLife Stock: (a) dividend; (b) stock dividend; (c) stock split; (d) MetLife, Inc. recapitalization (including, but
not limited, to the payment of an extraordinary dividend), (e) merger, consolidation, combination, or spin-off affecting MetLife, Inc. capitalization; (f) distribution of MetLife, Inc. assets to holders of MetLife Stock (other than ordinary cash
dividends); (g) exchange of shares, or (h) other similar corporate change. Unless otherwise determined by the Plan Administrator, only the value of a Participant s Deferred Stock Compensation Account may be tracked in the MetLife Deferred
Shares Fund.         

6.2.  
  Other Investment Tracking Funds. Except as provided in Section 6.1, the Plan Administrator shall determine in its discretion any method(s) of Investment Tracking that
will be available from time to time.         

7.  
  REALLOCATION ELECTIONS.         

7.1.  
  The Participant may change the Investment Tracking Funds used to adjust either (a) the value of new contributions to his/her Deferred Cash Compensation Account and
credits to his/her Matching Contribution Account, from the date(s) Compensation is deferred rather than paid and any Matching Contributions are credited, as the case may be; and/or (b) the value of the Participant s existing Deferred Cash
Compensation Account and Matching Contribution Account.         

7.2.  
  Unless otherwise determined by the Plan Administrator, a Reallocation Election shall be effective on the date it is received by the Plan Administrator, or on the
following business day if it is received by the Plan Adminstrator at a time when the Plan Administrator determines it is not practicable or convenient to the operation of the Plan to apply such Reallocation Election on the date it is received. The
number of Reallocation Elections by a Participant regarding each of items (a) and (b) of Section 7.1 of this Plan, respectively, shall not exceed six (6) in any calendar year; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the number of such Reallocation Elections
submitted by a Participant on a single day shall be aggregated as a single election for purposes of the limit expressed in this sentence.         

8.  
  MATCHING CONTRIBUTION. If a Participant makes contributions to SIP throughout a calendar year, the Participant s Matching Contribution Account shall be credited
with the amount of matching contributions (if any) with which the Participant s SIP account would have been credited under the terms and provisions of such plan, in each case with relation to deferred Compensation in that calendar year had the
Compensation not been deferred. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Matching Contributions shall be credited in favor of a Participant during the suspension of such Participant s deferrals pursuant to Section 4.6 of this Plan.

9.  
  BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION. The Plan Administrator shall prescribe the form by which each Eligible Associate and Participant may designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries
(who may be named contingently, and among whom payments received under this Plan may be split as indicated by the individual) for purposes of receiving payment of Deferred Compensation     
         5   

Accounts under this Plan after the death of such individual. Each designation will be effective only upon its receipt by the Plan Administrator during the life of the individual making the
designation and shall revoke all prior beneficiary designations by that individual related to this Plan. Beneficiary designations submitted by an Eligible Associate or Participant pursuant to the terms of the MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for
Officers or MetLife Individual Business Special Deferred Compensation Plan during or prior to 2004 shall be effective for purposes of this Plan.         

10.  
  PAYMENT OF DEFERRED COMPENSATION ACCOUNTS.         

10.1.  
  Amount. Except as provided in Section 2.4 of this Plan, the amount of payment(s) of each Deferred Compensation Account shall reflect the value of those Deferred
Compensation Accounts through the date each payment of Deferred Compensation Accounts is payable, as adjusted for Investment Tracking. If payment of Deferred Compensation Accounts is to be made in installments, then (a) the amount of each
installment payment from either a Deferred Cash Compensation Account and Matching Contribution Account will be determined by dividing the value of each of the Deferred Compensation Accounts at the time the payment is due by the remaining number of
installments in which the Deferred Cash Compensation Account or Matching Contribution Account, respectively, is to be paid, and (b) the amount of each installment payment from a Deferred Stock Compensation Account will be determined by dividing the
number of tracking shares (each equal to a share of MetLife Stock) in the Deferred Compensation Accounts at the time the payment is due by the remaining installments in which the Deferred Stock Compensation Account is to be paid, and disregarding
any fraction of a tracking share remaining until the last such installment payment.         

10.2.  
  Medium. Payment of a Participant s Deferred Stock Compensation Account shall be made in the form of shares of MetLife Stock. The form of payment of all other
Deferred Compensation Accounts shall be cash.         

10.3.1.  
  If a Participant dies on any date prior to completion of all payments from a Participant s Deferred Compensation Accounts, the unpaid portions of the
Participant s Deferred Compensation Accounts shall become immediately payable in a lump sum.         

10.3.2.  
  If the date on which payment of any of a Participant s Deferred Compensation Accounts is to begin, as specified in the Participant s Deferral Election, occurs
prior to the Participant s Employment Discontinuance, then the Participant s Deferred Compensation Accounts shall be payable beginning on the date determined by the Participant s Deferral Election and in the number of payments
determined by the Participant s Deferral Election; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that if the Participant s Employment Discontinuance occurs prior to the completion of all such payments, then all amounts remaining in the Participant s Deferred
Compensation Accounts shall be immediately payable in a lump sum (except that, in the case of a Key Employee, all remaining amounts in the Deferred Compensation Account shall be payable six (6) months following Employment Discontinuance).
    
         6   

10.3.3.  
  If the date on which payment of any of a Participant s Deferred Compensation Accounts is to begin, as specified in the Participant s Deferral Election, has
not occurred prior to the Participant s Employment Discontinuance, and Participant is Retirement Eligible upon Employment Discontinuance , then the Participant s Deferred Compensation Accounts shall be payable beginning on the date
determined by the Participant s Deferral Election and in the number of payments determined by the Participant s Deferral Election (except that, in the case of a Key Employee who specified payment upon termination of employment when
Retirement Eligible, payment of the Deferred Compensation Account shall be payable six (6) months following Employment Discontinuance).         

10.3.4.  
  If the date on which payment of any of a Participant s Deferred Compensation Accounts is to begin, as specified in the Participant s Deferral Election, has
not yet occurred prior to the Participant s Employment Discontinuance, and the Participant (a) is not Retirement Eligible upon Employment Discontinuance; (b) is, at Employment Discontinuance, eligible to participate in a severance plan offered
by an Affiliate; and (c) either will be deemed to be Retirement Eligible upon attaining age 55 after Employment Discontinuance or whose benefit under the Retirement Plan is otherwise determined with reference to the reduction factors for commencing
benefit payments prior to normal retirement age applicable to Retirement Plan participants with twenty (20) or more years of service, then the Participant s Deferred Compensation Account shall be payable and in the number of payments determined
by the Participant s Deferral Election beginning on the date determined by the Participant s Deferral Election; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that if the Participant s Deferral Election specified payment upon termination of employment when
Retirement Eligible then the Participant s Deferred Compensation Account shall be payable upon the Participant s Employment Discontinuance (except that, in the case of a Key Employee, all remaining amounts in the Deferred Compensation
Account shall be payable six (6) months following Employment Discontinuance).         

10.3.5.  
  If the date on which payment of a any of a Participant s Deferred Compensation Account is to begin, as specified in the Participant s Deferral Election, has
not occurred prior to the Participant s Employment Discontinuance, and neither Sections 10.3.3 nor 10.3.4 of this Plan applies to the Participant, then the Participant s Deferred Compensation Account shall be payable in a lump sum upon the
Participant s Employment Discontinuance, notwithstanding the Participant s Deferral Election (except that, in the case of a Key Employee, all remaining amounts in the Deferred Compensation Account shall be payable six (6) months following
Employment Discontinuance).         

10.3.6.  
  If, consistent with the terms of this Section 10, other than this Section 10.3.6 of this Plan, the Participant s Deferral Election applies to Cash Incentive
Compensation or Stock Compensation payable after the Participant s Employment Discontinuance, then the Participant s applicable Deferred Compensation Account shall be payable beginning on the date determined by the Participant s
Deferral Election and in the number of payments determined by the Participant s Deferral Election.     
         7   

10.3.7.  
  Notwithstanding any of the other terms of this Section 10.3. distribution of amounts from a Participant s Matching Contribution Account shall not be made beginning
on any date earlier than the date on which payments of Matching Contributions could have been payable under the terms of SIP. To the extent that the Participant s Matching Contribution Account is not payable on the earliest date(s) that the
Participant s other Deferred Compensation Accounts become payable, in each case by virtue of this Section 10.3.7. the Matching Contribution Account shall be paid in a lump sum.     

10.3.8.  
  Notwithstanding any of the other terms of this Section 10.3. except Section 10.3.7 of this Plan, to the extent any of the Participant s Deferred Compensation
Accounts are payable pursuant to Sections 12 or 13 of this Plan, payment shall be made in a single lump sum.         

10.3.9.  
  Payment(s) of a Participant s Deferred Compensation Account shall be made on the earlier of the date payable or after any delays in payment required under Legal
Deferral Requirements have passed as determined by the Plan Administrator in its discretion. In no event shall MetLife, Inc., any Affiliate, or the Plan have any liability to anyone on account of payment being made later than the date payable due to
administrative considerations or otherwise.         

10.3.10.  
  Notwithstanding any other terms of this Plan, no payment of any Deferred Compensation Account shall be made at a time inconsistent with Legal Deferral Requirements.

10.4.  
  To Whom Paid. Except as otherwise provided in this Section 10.4 of this Plan, all payments of a Participant s Deferred Compensation Accounts will be made to the
Participant. If a Participant dies on any date prior to the date of the completion of all such payments, all unpaid value in the Participant s Deferred Compensation Accounts shall be paid to the beneficiary designated for that purpose by the
Participant. If the Participant s designated beneficiary has not survived the Participant, or the Participant has designated no beneficiary for purposes of this Plan, such payment will be made to the Participant s estate.

10.5.  
  Withholding and Effect of Taxes. Payments under this Plan will be made after the withholding of any Federal, state, or local income, employment or other taxes legally
obligated to be withheld, as determined by the Plan Administrator in its discretion. All tax liabilities arising out of deferrals under this Plan shall be the sole obligation of the Participant or his/her beneficiary, including but not limited to
any tax liabilities arising out of Legal Deferral Requirements. Withholding of any taxes or other items required by law may be made from each payment of a Participant s Deferred Compensation Account or from other payments due to the Participant
from any Affiliate to the extent consistent with law.         

11.  
    NO LOANS AND ASSIGNMENTS. The Plan shall make no loan, including any loan on account of any Deferred Compensation Account, to any Participant or any
other person nor permit any Deferred Compensation Account to serve as the basis or security for any loan to any      
         8   

Participant or any other person. Except as provided in Section 20 of this Plan, no Participant or any other person may sell, assign, transfer, pledge, commute, or encumber any Deferred
Compensation Account or any other rights under this Plan.         

12.  
  HARDSHIP ACCOMMODATIONS.         

12.1.  
  Upon the written request of an Eligible Associate or Participant, the Plan Administrator may, in its discretion and in light of any facts or considerations it deems
appropriate, find that the Eligible Associate or Participant has suffered an Unforeseeable Emergency. In light of such a finding, the Plan Administrator may, to the extent the Plan Administrator determines necessary for the Eligible Associate or
Participant to address the Unforeseeable Emergency, (a) suspend the deferral of receipt of Compensation by the Eligible Associate or Participant pursuant to a Deferral Election; and/or (b) to the extent the Plan Administrator finds, in its
discretion, that such a suspension of deferral is insufficient to address the Participant s Unforeseeable Emergency, make payment of all or a portion of the Participant s Deferred Compensation Accounts. The Plan Administrator shall provide
the Eligible Associate or Participant with written notice of its determinations in response to the Eligible Associate s or Participant s request.     

12.2.  
  The total amount of deferrals suspended or payment advanced shall not exceed the amount necessary to satisfy the financial consequences of the Unforeseeable Emergency
and amounts equal to the withholding required by Section 10.5 of this Plan, and shall not exceed the total value of the Deferred Compensation Accounts under the Plan. No accommodation pursuant to this Section 12 shall be implemented in manner or at
a time when prohibited or punishable by any applicable Affiliate policy or law, including but not limited to law regarding trading of securities on inside information and the exemptions therefrom.     

12.3.  
  If the Eligible Associate or Participant participates in any other deferred compensation plan by virtue of employment with any Affiliate, the Plan Administrator may
coordinate the operation of this Section 12 with the operation or similar provisions of any such other plan, including but not limited to reducing the value of deferrals in ascending order of the value of deferrals in each plan beginning with the
plan in which the individual s deferrals have the lowest value.         

12.4.  
  In the event that a payment from the Participant s Deferred Compensation Accounts is made pursuant to this Section 12, (a) the value of the Participant s
Deferred Cash Compensation Account shall be reduced, and (b) if the reduction in the value of the Participant s Deferred Cash Compensation Account is less than the payment made, the Plan Administrator may in its discretion reduce the value of
the Participant s Matching Contribution Account and/or Deferred Stock Compensation Account, in amounts determined by the Plan Administrator in its discretion, equal to a total reduction equal to the difference between the payments made and the
value by which the Participant s Deferred Cash Compensation Account was reduced.     
         9   

12.5.  
  To the extent that the value of the Participant s Deferred Cash Compensation Account or Matching Contribution Account is reduced, the value tracked according to
each Investment Tracking Fund shall be reduced proportionate to the total value of the Deferred Cash Compensation Account or Matching Contribution Account, respectively, being tracked in that Investment Tracking Fund.     

13.  
  UNILATERAL PAYMENT CONSISTENT WITH LAW. In those circumstances permitted by law consistent with Legal Deferral Requirements, the Plan Administrator may, in its
discretion, and regardless of the Participant s wishes, pay a Participant the value of the Participant s Deferred Compensation Accounts in whole or in part. No payment pursuant to this Section 13 shall be made in manner or at a time when
prohibited or punishable by any applicable Affiliate policy or law, including but not limited to law regarding trading of securities on inside information and the exemptions therefrom.     

14.  
  NATURE OF LIABILITY. All Deferred Compensation Accounts accrued under this Plan are unsecured obligations of MetLife, Inc. and any successor thereto, and are neither
obligations, debts, nor liabilities of any other entity or party. This Plan and the liabilities created hereunder are unfunded. Investment Tracking, any other means for adjusting or communicating the value of Deferred Compensation Accounts, and any
communication or documentation regarding this Plan or any Participant s Deferred Compensation Accounts are for recordkeeping purposes only and do not create any right, property, security, or interest in any assets of MetLife, Inc. or any other
party. All Deferred Compensation Accounts accrued under this Plan are subject to the claims of general creditors of MetLife, Inc. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Affiliate employing a Participant ceases to be an Affiliate, the Plan
Administrator may determine on or before the date of the transaction in which the Affiliate ceased to be an Affiliate (or afterward, with the consent of an officer of MetLife, Inc.), that the liabilities associated with some or all of the employees
of that Affiliate who are Participants shall transfer from MetLife, Inc. to that MetLife Company as of the date that Affiliate ceases or ceased to be an Affiliate. Although the Plan is intended to be designed and administered in complete accordance
with Legal Deferral Requirements, in no event shall MetLife, Inc., any Affiliate, or the Plan have any liability to anyone for any taxes, penalties, or other losses on account of the Plan or its administration failing to comply with Legal Deferral
Requirements.         

15.  
  NO GUARANTEE OF EMPLOYMENT; NO LIMITATION ON EMPLOYER ACTION. Nothing in this Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of any employer to establish the
terms and conditions of employment of any individual, including but not limited to compensation and benefits, or to terminate the employment of any individual, nor confer on any individual the right to continue in the employ of any employer. Nothing
in this Plan shall limit the right of any employer to establish any other compensation or benefit plan. No Deferred Compensation Account shall be treated as compensation for purposes of a Participant s right under any other plan, policy, or
program, except as stated or provided in such plan, policy, or program. Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to limit, impair, or otherwise affect the right of any entity to make adjustments, reorganizations, or changes to its capital or business
structure, or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.     
         10   

16.  
  TERM OF PLAN. This Plan shall be effective with regard to salary and Cash Incentive Compensation payable on and after January 1, 2005 and with regard to Stock
Compensation payable on and after April 15, 2005, and shall continue in effect unless and until it is terminated pursuant to its terms. The Plan Administrator may solicit and receive Deferral Elections prior to the dates this Plan and any amended
and restated terms and any amendment to the Plan are effective.         

17.  
  GOVERNING LAW. The Plan shall be construed in accordance with and governed by New York law, without regard to principles of conflict of laws.     

18.  
  ENTIRE PLAN; THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES. This Plan document is the entire expression of the Plan, and no other oral or written communication, other than documents
authorized under this Plan and fulfilling its express terms, shall determine the terms of the Plan or the terms of any agreement between an Eligible Associate or Participant and an Affiliate with regard to the Plan or Deferred Compensation Accounts.
There are no third party beneficiaries to this Plan, other than Participants  respective beneficiaries designated under the terms of this Plan.         

19.  
  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION CONSISTENT WITH LAW. To the extent permissible under law, including Legal Deferral Requirements, the Plan Administrator may amend, modify,
suspend, or terminate this Plan at any time. Any such amendment or termination will not reduce the amount in Deferred Compensation Accounts accrued under this Plan prior to the execution of such amendment or termination. For further clarification,
except as otherwise provided in this Section 19, amendments may otherwise be made to any and all provisions of the Plan, including but not limited to amendments affecting the time of distribution of Deferred Compensation Accounts, affecting forms of
distribution of Deferred Compensation Accounts, or affecting any of the Investment Tracking Funds or any other means for adjusting the value of Deferred Compensation Accounts.     

20.  
  QUALIFIED DOMESTIC RELATIONS ORDERS. The Plan Administrator will distribute, designate, or otherwise recognize the attachment of any portion of a Participant s
Deferred Compensation Accounts in favor of the Participant s spouse, former spouse or dependents to the extent such action is mandated by the terms of a qualified domestic relations order as defined in Section 414(p) of the Code, and otherwise
as determined by this Plan.         

21.  
  CLAIMS. Claims for benefits and appeals of denied claims under the Plan shall be administered in accordance with Section 503 of ERISA, regulations thereunder (and any
other law that amends, supplements, or supersedes said section of ERISA), and any procedures adopted by the Plan Administrator. The claims procedures referenced above are incorporated in this Plan by this reference.     

22.  
  DEFINITIONS. Capitalized terms in this Plan, and their forms, shall have the following meanings:     

22.1.  
   Affiliate  shall mean any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust or other entity which directly, or indirectly through one or more
intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, MetLife, Inc.     
         11   

22.2.  
   Cash Incentive Compensation  shall mean compensation payable in the form of cash under the MetLife Annual Variable Incentive Compensation Plan, the
Institutional Regional Executive Plan, the International Long Term Performance Compensation Plan, the Long Term Performance Compensation Plan (and, in the case of each incentive compensation plan, any successor plan(s)), or payments of the nature of
incentive compensation to an 090 Employee, but (for greater clarity) shall not include any payments in lieu of compensation payable under any such plans contingent on a separation agreement, release, or similar agreement.     

22.3.  
   Code  shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of the United States.     

22.4.  
   Compensation  shall mean salary, Cash Incentive Compensation, and Stock Compensation payable by MetLife, Inc. or a MetLife Company.     

22.5.  
   Deferral Election  shall mean a written document executed by the Eligible Associate specifying the Eligible Associate s instructions regarding the
matters addressed by Section 4 of this Plan.         

22.6.  
   Deferred Cash Compensation Account  shall mean a record-keeping account established for the benefit of a Participant in which is credited Compensation
otherwise payable in cash to a Participant, but accounted for to the credit of the Participant under the terms of this Plan rather than paid to the Participant as and when originally earned.     

22.7.  
   Deferred Compensation Account  shall mean a Deferred Cash Compensation Account, Deferred Stock Compensation Account, or Matching Contribution Account (and,
when used in the plural, all such Deferred Compensation Accounts to the credit of a Participant under the terms of this Plan). The value of each Deferred Compensation Account shall be adjusted as provided in this Plan.     

22.8.  
   Deferred Stock Compensation Account  shall mean a record-keeping account established for the benefit of a Participant in which is credited Compensation
either (a) otherwise payable in MetLife Stock to a Participant, or (b) otherwise payable in cash as an award under the Long Term Performance Compensation Plan, but which the Participant has elected to defer in a Deferred Stock Compensation Account
under Section 4.2(d) of this Plan, but accounted for to the credit of the Participant under the terms of this Plan rather than paid to the Participant as and when originally earned.     

22.9.  
   Eligible Associate  shall mean (a) an individual to whom an offer of employment as an Officer or 090 Employee has been made, who is selected by the Plan
Administrator for eligibility and has been so notified; (b) an individual in his or her first calendar year as an Officer or 090 Employee who is selected by the Plan Administrator for eligibility and has been so notified; and (c) an individual in
his or her second or later calendar year as an Office or 090 Employee, at such times that Officer or 090 Employee is eligible to participate in this Plan as provided in Section 3 of this Plan.     

22.10.  
   Employment Discontinuance  shall mean the termination of employment with an Affiliate, other than in connection with the transfer of employment to another
Affiliate, or such other date as required to comply with Legal Deferral Requirements.     
         12   

22.11.  
   ERISA  shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.     

22.12.  
   Fair Market Value  shall mean, on any date, the closing price of MetLife Stock as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system for the
New York Stock Exchange (or on such other recognized quotation system on which the trading prices of MetLife Stock are quoted at the relevant time) on such date. In the event that there are no MetLife Stock transactions reported on such tape (or
such other system) on such date, Fair Market Value shall mean the closing price on the immediately preceding date on which MetLife Stock transactions were so reported.     

22.13.  
   Investment Tracking  shall mean the adjustment of value to reflect simulated investment performance.     

22.14.  
   Investment Tracking Funds  shall mean those funds and vehicles described in Section 6 of this Plan.     

22.15.  
   Key Employee  shall mean at any given time, an employee subject to Code Section 416(i) as of August 31 of the prior calendar year as determined by the Plan
Administrator.         

22.16.  
   Legal Deferral Requirements  shall mean requirements under law to achieve deferral of income taxation, including but not limited to Code Section 409A and any
regulations promulgated thereunder.         

22.17.  
   Matching Contributions  shall mean the matching contributions described in Section 8 of this Plan.     

22.18.  
   Matching Contribution Account  shall mean a record-keeping account established for the benefit of a Participant in which is credited Matching Contributions
and Pre-2005 Unvested Matching Contributions.         

22.19.  
   MetLife Common Stock Fund  shall mean Fair Market Value, plus the value of reinvested dividends payable on MetLife Stock.     

22.20.  
   MetLife Companies  shall mean MetLife Group, Inc.; Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company; and MetLife Bank, National Association.

22.21.  
   MetLife Stock  shall mean shares of common stock of MetLife, Inc.     

22.22.  
   Officer  shall mean each individual who is employed by a MetLife Company paid from the United States in United States currency and whose compensation is in
an officer or officer-equivalent grade level, each as determined by the Plan Administrator in its discretion.         

22.23.  
   Participant  shall mean each Eligible Associate who has had compensation deferred by operation of a Deferral Election under this Plan, and each individual
credited with Pre-2005 Unvested Matching Contributions under this Plan.         

22.24.  
   Plan  shall mean this MetLife Leadership Deferred Compensation Plan.     

22.25.  
   Plan Administrator  shall mean the Plan Administrator of the Retirement Plan, including any person to whom such office has been delegated consistent with the
Retirement Plan.     
         13   

22.26.  
   Pre-2005 Unvested Matching Contributions  shall mean those amounts of  Matching Contributions  (as defined in the MetLife Deferred Compensation
Plan for Officers) that are not credited in favor of the Participant under the MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for Officers by virtue of the fact that such amounts would not have been vested under SIP as of December 31, 2004.

22.27.  
   Reallocation Election  shall mean a written document executed by the Participant specifying the Participant s instructions regarding the matters
addressed by Section 7 of this Plan.         

22.28.  
   Retirement Eligible  shall mean: (a) if the Participant participates in the Retirement Plan, the Participant has met the age and service criteria necessary
to begin receiving pension payments under the  traditional formula  in the Retirement Plan immediately upon terminating service (regardless of whether the Participant is actually eligible to receive  traditional formula  pension
payments), and (b) if the Participant participates in any other retirement plan offered by a MetLife Company or any Affiliate, the Participant has met the age and service criteria necessary to begin receiving pension payments immediately upon
terminating service.         

22.29.  
   Retirement Plan  shall mean the Metropolitan Life Retirement Plan for United States Employees.     

22.30.  
   SIP  shall mean each and all of the Savings and Investment Plan for Employees of Metropolitan Life and Participating Affiliates, the Metropolitan Life
Auxiliary Savings and Investment Plan, and the Metropolitan Life Supplemental Auxiliary Savings and Investment Plan (and/or any successor plan(s)).         

22.31.  
   Stock Compensation  shall mean compensation payable in the form of shares of MetLife Stock, including awards in that form under the Long Term Performance
Compensation Plan or the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan.         

22.32.  
   Total Return  shall mean the change (plus or minus) in price or value, plus dividends (if any) on a reinvested basis, during the applicable period, less any
management fees or other expenses applicable to the fund or investment serving as the basis for Investment Tracking Fund, as determined by the Plan Administrator in its discretion.     

22.33.  
   Unforeseeable Emergency  shall mean severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from a sudden and unexpected illness or accident of the
Participant or a dependent of the Participant, loss of the Participant s property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant, in any case
that is not or can not be relieved by the Participant through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, liquidation of the Participant s assets (to the extent such liquidation would not itself cause severe financial hardship),
and in any case solely to the extent consistent with the grounds for action by the Plan Administrator under Section 12 of this Plan consistent with Legal Deferral Requirements.     
         14   

22.34.  
   090 Employee  shall mean each individual who is employed by a MetLife Company paid from the United States in United States currency, who is either (a)
classified by the individual s employer in compensation grade 090 and earned two-hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) in annual total cash compensation benefitable under the terms of SIP for the twelve (12) months immediately preceding October 1
of the year prior to the year subject to the Deferral Election or in such twelve (12) month period otherwise designated by the Plan Administrator; (b) serving in the first calendar year in compensation grade 090, and found by the Plan Administrator
in its discretion to have earned two-hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) in compensation from any or all employers or principals in the prior calendar year (or in the second prior calendar year, should the Plan Administrator anticipate or determine
that information on the individual s earnings in the prior calendar year that the Plan Administrator would find sufficiently reliable is not available); (c) an employee of any MetLife Company who was formerly a participant in the GenAmerica
Executive Deferred Savings Plan, deferred compensation under that plan, and has submitted a Deferral Election under this Plan for each year the individual was otherwise eligible to do so under this Plan; or (d) deemed to be an 090 Employee by the
Plan Administrator in its discretion.     
         15   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this MetLife Leadership Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective
January 1, 2005, is approved.      PLAN ADMINISTRATOR       
 
         16   

</EX-10.67>

<EX-10.74>
 22
 d302570dex1074.htm
 AMENDMENT NUMBER ONE TO THE METLIFE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

Amendment Number One to the MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan 

Exhibit 10.74        Amendment Number One to        The MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for
Outside Directors        (as amended and restated as of December, 2003) (the  Plan )    
  The Plan is hereby amended in the manner set forth below, to the extent consistent with legal requirements to maintain the deferred
status of compensation credited under the Plan, including the grandfathered status of such deferrals precluding the applicability of United States Internal Revenue Code Section 409A:   

1.  
  The third paragraph of the section entitled  Investment Tracking Funds  is amended and restated to read as follows:     
  The Plan Administrator may eliminate or replace any investment tracking fund or index at any time. When the Plan Administrator has
determined to make a change, you will be informed and you will be given an opportunity to change your investment tracking selections to the extent they are affected by the change. Changes to investment tracking fund or index may be made without
amending the Plan document, but will be reflected in any amended and restated Plan document.      Any changes to investment
tracking funds or indices will be made only to the extent consistent with legal requirements to maintain the deferred status of compensation credited under the Plan, including the grandfathered status of such deferrals precluding the applicability
of United States Internal Revenue Code Section 409A       

2.  
  This Amendment will be effective immediately upon execution.         

3.  
  Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the Plan (including any amendments thereto) shall continue in full force and effect without amendment.
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this amendment is approved.      PLAN ADMINISTRATOR       

/s/ Andrew J. Bernstein for Margery Brittain   
 
  Date: 2-26-07   
 
  Witness:  /s/ Joo Young
Kang                                      

</EX-10.74>

<EX-10.75>
 23
 d302570dex1075.htm
 METLIFE NON-MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

MetLife Non-Management Director Deferred Compensation Plan 

Exhibit 10.75      THE METLIFE NON-MANAGEMENT      DIRECTOR DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN   
  December 2006   

IMPORTANT NOTICES      This Program Description provides an overview of the MetLife Non-Management Director Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Plan ). It is also the official plan document that legally governs the Plan.
This Plan document will govern in every respect and instance, and replaces and supersedes prior Plan documents.      This Program Description may
be updated from time to time to implement changes in the Plan. Fund performance data will be updated periodically. These updates will constitute part of the Prospectus distributed with respect to the Plan.   
  The Plan Administrator may amend, alter or terminate the Plan in accordance with its terms at any time and for any reason. The Plan was effective on
January 1, 2005, and the Plan will continue in effect until it is amended, suspended, or terminated according to its terms. This Plan was designed to replace the MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors and Article VII of the
MetLife, Inc. 2000 Directors Stock Plan, respectively, beginning with 2005 compensation deferrals; earlier deferrals will remain governed by the earlier plans.      MetLife, Inc. will have the obligation to pay amounts deferred under the Plan. MetLife, Inc. s obligations are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Since this is an unfunded plan,
your rights or claims against assets or property are no greater than those of a general unsecured creditor of MetLife, Inc. Your deferrals may gain or lose value over time; see  Investment Tracking For Your Deferred Cash Accounts  and
 MetLife Deferred Stock Accounts  below. Shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock paid under the Plan may be shares of treasury common stock or authorized but unissued common stock.   
  This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities      that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.      The date
of this Prospectus is December 2006.   
         Page 2

PLAN AT-A-GLANCE       

PURPOSE  
      
  To provide eligible directors with the opportunity to defer their cash and MetLife Stock compensation, thereby deferring payment of federal and most state income taxes on such
compensation.   

ELIGIBILITY  
      
  Directors of MetLife, Inc. who are not employees of MetLife, Inc. or any of its affiliates.   

ELECTION OPTIONS  
      
           Deferral amount  
   
         Investment tracking funds (for cash deferrals)  
   
         Distribution date  
   
         Number of distribution payments    

ANNUAL ENROLLMENT PERIOD  
      
  The 2007 annual enrollment will be open December 1, 2006 - December 29, 2006.   

ENROLLMENT PERIOD FOR NEW DIRECTORS  
      
  Newly-appointed directors may make a deferral election for fees payable in the calendar year in which they are elected, but must do so by the earlier of the next Directors meeting
attended for which they earn fees or the 30th day after appointment.   

INVESTMENT TRACKING  
      
  Your deferred cash compensation accounts will be credited with gains and losses reflecting the performance of the investment tracking funds and indices you select.   

INVESTMENT TRACKING FUND CHANGES  
      
  Limited to a total of six times per year for future deferrals and existing account balances.   

CHANGES IN AMOUNTS DEFERRED  
      
  None allowed, except for hardship.   

FORM OF DISTRIBUTION  
      
  Your deferred cash compensation will be paid in cash at the end of the deferral period. Your deferred awards of MetLife Stock will be paid in the form of such stock, with imputed
reinvested dividends, at the end of the deferral period.   

DISTRIBUTION:  

NUMBER   
      
  Lump-sum payment or up to 15 annual installments.   

TIMING   
      
  Beginning upon earlier of 60 days after termination of service as a director or on a designated future date.   

HARDSHIP   
      
  Immediate lump-sum payment (availability strictly limited).   

CHANGES TO DISTRIBUTION DATE AND/OR NUMBER OF PAYMENTS  
      
  You may change the distribution date to a date at least five years later than the date you originally selected, and/or change the number of payments. Your change will only be
effective if you submit your request no later than one year before the earlier of the end of your service as a director or the date of payment you originally selected.   

TAXES  
      
  Deferred compensation is taxable as ordinary income at the time of distribution. Rollover to an IRA, qualified plan or non-qualified plan is not permitted.   

BENEFICIARY  
      
  Upon your death, any existing account balances will be paid to your designated beneficiary or beneficiaries in a lump sum.   

PLAN FUNDING  
      
  The Plan is a non-qualified, unfunded plan. Your accounts are maintained for record-keeping purposes only.   
 
         Page 3

METLIFE NON-MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN   
  The MetLife Non-Management Director Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) allows eligible directors to defer receiving a portion of their
annual retainer, committee chair fees, and meeting fees, if any, payable in cash or shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock ( MetLife Stock ) for services in 2005 and thereafter, thereby deferring payment of federal and most state income
taxes until a later date when the deferred payments are received. Participation in the Plan is completely voluntary.      ELIGIBILITY   
  Members of the Board of Directors of MetLife, Inc. (the  Board ) who are not employees of MetLife, Inc. or any of its affiliates
( Non-Management Directors ) are eligible to participate. In this Program Description,  you  refers to a director who is eligible to participate in the Plan.      MAKING A DEFERRAL ELECTION      Prior to each year in which you will provide services as a
Non-Management Director, you may defer all or a portion of fees payable as compensation for such services. Deferrals begin with the first fees payable for such services during a calendar year and end with the last fees payable during the calendar
year. Designations do not carry over from year to year; you must make a new designation each year.      When you are elected to the Board, you may
defer all or a portion of your fees payable in that calendar year by submitting a deferral election before the earlier of (1) the first meeting that you attend for which you earn fees; or (2) the thirtieth day after you become eligible to
participate in the Plan.      The MetLife Non-Management Director Deferred Compensation Plan is a non-qualified plan that is unfunded and subject
to the risks described in this document. Amounts credited to an account are solely for record-keeping purposes. The Plan is not subject to full protection under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA).   
  To defer your cash compensation, you need to complete a deferral election form specifying:   

The percentage of your cash fees you want deferred into a Deferred Cash Account (if you choose to defer any of your cash fees, your deferral must equal
at least $10,000.00);          

The investment tracking funds that will be used to adjust the value of that Deferred Cash Account; and      

A future distribution date and number of payments for that Deferred Cash Account (paid in cash).      
         Page 4

To defer your MetLife Stock compensation, you need to complete a deferral election form specifying:

The percentage of your MetLife Stock fees you want deferred into a MetLife Deferred Stock Account; and      

The future distribution date and number of payments for your MetLife Deferred Stock Account.      
  Your deferral election form must be submitted during the enrollment period. If you submit an election form that does not specify when payment is to be
made, payment will be made upon the termination of your service as a Non-Management Director. If you submit an election form that does not specify the number of installments in which payment should be made, payment will be made in a single lump sum.
     Before making your elections, you may wish to consult a tax or personal financial advisor regarding all of the ramifications of deferral of
compensation under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and all other requirements under law for deferral of income taxation ( Legal Deferral Requirements ).      All deferrals are subject to the terms of this Plan.      INCOME TAXES   
  Compensation is not subject to current taxation under federal and most state income tax laws at the time it is deferred. Deferred compensation to
Non-Management Directors is not subject to Social Security or Medicare taxes, but it is subject to tax under the Self-Employment Contributions Act (SECA) when the amounts are includible in your income. You should consult with a tax or personal
financial advisor to determine whether you must pay SECA on these amounts when received.      DEFERRAL AMOUNTS   
  During the annual enrollment period, you may elect to defer all or a portion of your fees payable in the following year for services as a director of
MetLife, Inc. If you choose to defer any of your cash fees, you must defer at least $10,000.      Once you elect your deferral amount, you may not
change it. You may, however, suspend deferrals in cases of extreme hardship as provided in the Plan. See  Hardship Exceptions,  below.      DEFERRED COMPENSATION ACCOUNTS      If you defer any or all of your cash compensation, a Deferred Cash
Account in your name for that year s deferrals will be established for record-keeping purposes. If you defer any of your MetLife Stock compensation, a MetLife Deferred Stock Account in your name for that year s deferrals will be
established for record-keeping purposes. You will receive account statements annually.      Your accounts will be credited effective on the date
on which your fees would have been payable had you not elected to defer receipt of such fees.   
         Page 5

INVESTMENT TRACKING FOR YOUR DEFERRED CASH ACCOUNTS      Investment tracking is used as a device for adjusting the value of your Deferred Cash Accounts, based on performance of the actual fund or index. Gains or losses, measured on a daily basis, will be
reflected in your account, in effect  mirroring  the performance of the specified fund(s) or index(ices) you select. Your deferred cash will not actually be invested in the funds or indices.   
  The Plan may be amended by the Plan Administrator to eliminate or replace any investment tracking fund or index at any time. See  Plan
Administrator  below.      You currently may select one or more of 13 investment tracking funds and indices, each of which mirrors the
performance of the actual fund or index.       

ACTIVELY MANAGED FUNDS   
      
    MARKET INDICES    

MetLife SIP Fixed Income Fund  
      
  S P 500(R) Index   
 
  Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Fund  
      
  Russell 2000(R) Index   
 
  Oakmark Fund(R)  
      
  Nasdaq Composite(R) Index   
 
  MetLife SIP Small Company Stock Fund  
      
  MSCI EAFE(R) Index   
 
  Oakmark International Fund  
      
  Lehman Brothers(R) Aggregate Bond Index   

Merrill Lynch US High Yield Master II Index   

MSCI Emerging Markets Index(SM)   
     SINGLE-STOCK FUND       MetLife Common Stock Fund*      Fund and index allocations must be made in multiples of 5%.
     You may change your allocation among investment tracking funds and indices - either with regard to future deferrals or your existing account
at any time during the year by accessing the website www.benefitplanservices.com/metlife, (click on Change Allocations) or by calling Benefit Plan Services, Inc. (BPSI) at 1-800-340-8151, however, you may make no more than six changes per year.
For this purpose, all changes submitted on the same day will count as a single change. You will receive confirmations of your changes shortly after they are made. Allocations into and out of the MetLife Common Stock Fund must be pre-cleared with the
Corporate Secretary in accordance with the MetLife Insider Trading Policy.      See below for information about the investment tracking funds and
indices.       

*  
  This investment tracking fund may be used to adjust the value of any or all of your Deferred Cash Compensation Account. Values are tracked in this investment tracking
fund using the value and performance of MetLife Stock, but payment is made in cash. Your MetLife Deferred Stock Account, which consists of deferred MetLife Stock payments, is paid out in the form of MetLife Stock.     
         Page 6

METLIFE DEFERRED STOCK ACCOUNTS      Your MetLife Deferred Stock Accounts will reflect the number of shares of MetLife Stock you deferred, plus imputed reinvested dividends (on the same basis as such dividends are paid on actual shares of
MetLife Stock).      The value of your MetLife Deferred Stock Account will depend on the price of MetLife Stock, which is affected by market
conditions and other factors, such as declared dividends. As a result, the value of your MetLife Deferred Stock Account is anticipated to have a relatively high risk profile.      Your MetLife Deferred Stock Accounts will be appropriately adjusted (as determined by the Governance Committee of the Board, or its successor) in the event of any MetLife Stock dividend, MetLife Stock
split, recapitalization (including, but not limited, to the payment of an extraordinary dividend), merger, consolidation, combination, or spin-off affecting MetLife, Inc. capitalization, distribution of MetLife, Inc. assets to holders of MetLife
Stock (other than ordinary cash dividends), exchange of shares, or other similar corporate change.      The performance of MetLife Deferred Stock
Awards will be identical to that of the MetLife Common Stock Fund, and is labeled the  MetLife Deferred Shares Fund  in the  Total Return Historic Fund   Index Performance by Calendar Year  chart.   
  THE DISTRIBUTION DATES      For each of your
Deferred Cash Accounts and your MetLife Deferred Stock Accounts separately, you may choose to have your distributions begin either (1) on a specific date no less than three years after the year of deferral (for example: for payments
attributable to services performed in 2007, the date you may choose may not be earlier than 2011), or (2) upon the termination of your service as a Non-Management Director of MetLife, Inc. (the date of your termination of service will be
determined in accordance with Legal Deferral Requirements). If you choose to receive your account on a specific date, your account will be paid to you on the earlier of (a) the date you selected, or (b) on the date of the termination of
your service as a director.      Once you have designated a distribution date, you cannot change it except as described below under  Changing
the Distribution Date And/Or Number of Payments.       NUMBER OF PAYMENTS      You may elect to receive each of your account balances in either a lump-sum payment or up to 15 annual installments. For each of your Deferred Cash Accounts, each annual installment will be a fraction of
the account s cash value with one being the numerator and the number of payments remaining being the denominator. For each of your MetLife Deferred Stock Accounts, each annual installment will be a fraction of the number of shares of MetLife
Stock represented in the account, with one being the numerator and the number of payments remaining being the denominator and disregarding any fraction of a share until the last installment. For example, if you elect to receive 10 annual payments,
  
         Page 7

the first payment is equal to 1/10th of the account; the second payment is equal to 1/9th of the account; and so on until final payment is made. For purposes of Legal Deferral Rules, any payment
option selected under this plan will be considered to be a single payment form of benefit.      FORM OF PAYMENTS   
  All payments from your Deferred Cash Accounts (including portions invested in the MetLife Common Stock Fund) will be made in cash. All payments from your
MetLife Deferred Stock Account will be made in MetLife Stock, except that fractional shares will be paid in cash at the Closing Price of MetLife Stock on the date of payment.*      TAXATION OF PAYMENTS      Generally, payments are subject to federal, state and local tax income taxes
in the year you receive the amounts. Rollover to an IRA, qualified plan or non-qualified plan is not permitted.      CHANGING THE DISTRIBUTION
DATE AND/OR NUMBER OF PAYMENTS      For each of your Deferred Cash Account and your MetLife Deferred Stock Account for a given year, you may make
changes only once, at which time you may change either or both: (1) the date you have selected to receive payment of your deferred compensation to a date at least five (5) years later than your original selection; and/or (2) the
number of payments you have chosen to receive (your change may increase or decrease the number of payments). You must make all changes to any particular account at the same time; provided, however, that your changes are effective if you submit them
no later than one year before the earlier of the original date you had selected for payment or the date your service as a Non-Management Director ends, and otherwise will not be effective. All changes will be effective to the extent consistent with
Legal Deferral Requirements.      PAYMENT TO BENEFICIARIES      If you die before your distributions begin or are completed, the balance in your accounts will be paid as a single lump sum to your beneficiary. If you have not designated a beneficiary, or your
beneficiary (or beneficiaries) die(s) before you do, the balance in your accounts will be paid to your estate.      You may designate an
individual, entity, trustee, or your estate as your beneficiary, and you may change your beneficiary at any time. Each beneficiary designation will apply to all of your deferrals under the Plan, and will supersede your previous beneficiary
designations. Unless or until you submit a new beneficiary designation form, your last beneficiary designation (if any) under the MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for   

*  
   Closing Price  means the closing price of a share of MetLife Stock as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system for the New York
Stock Exchange (or on such other recognized quotation system on which the trading prices of shares of MetLife Stock are quoted at the relevant time) on such date. In the event that there are no transactions of MetLife Stock reported on such tape (or
such other system) on such date, Closing Price shall mean the closing price on the immediately preceding date on which MetLife Stock transactions were so reported.     
         Page 8

Outside Directors (or, if you have not designated a beneficiary under that plan, the beneficiary you have designated under the MetLife, Inc. 2000 Directors Stock Plan, if any) will apply under
this Plan.      You may designate your beneficiary(ies) during each annual enrollment period. If you wish to change your beneficiary designations
during the year you may access the website www/benefitplanservices.com/metlife (by clicking on Beneficiary Detail) or contact BPSI at 1-800-340-8151 and they will send you a form on which you can make your new beneficiary elections.   
  LOANS      No loans may be taken from your
accounts.      HARDSHIP EXCEPTIONS      In
cases of extreme hardship, and consistent with legal requirements for deferral of income taxation, the Plan Administrator may suspend deferrals or make payments to you, reducing the value of your account. However, the total amount suspended and paid
cannot exceed the amount required to satisfy the financial consequences of the hardship and tax withholding requirements.      UNFUNDED, UNSECURED
OBLIGATIONS OF METLIFE, INC.      Deferrals under the Plan are unfunded and unsecured obligations of MetLife, Inc. Your rights are those of a
general unsecured creditor of MetLife, Inc. The Plan is intended to be designed and administered in complete accordance with Legal Deferral Requirements, but in no event will MetLife, Inc., any affiliate, or the Plan be liable for any taxes,
penalties, or other losses on account of the Plan or its administration failing to comply with Legal Deferral Requirements.      ASSIGNMENT
     No assignment or pledge of the right to receive the payment of amounts deferred or any other rights under the Plan may be made.   
  QUALIFIED DOMESTIC RELATIONS ORDERS ( QDROs )      Deferred compensation will be distributed or attached to the extent required by a QDRO.      PLAN
ADMINISTRATOR      The Plan is administered by a Plan Administrator who may establish, amend or rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan.
The Plan Administrator of this Plan is also the Plan Administrator of the Metropolitan Life Retirement Plan for U.S. Employees. The Employee Benefits Committee of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company appoints the Plan Administrator of the
Retirement Plan, who serves until such time as the Committee appoints a new Plan Administrator.   
         Page 9

To the extent consistent with law, including Legal Deferral Requirements, the Plan Administrator may amend,
modify, suspend, or terminate the Plan at any time and for any reason. The Plan Administrator may not amend, modify or terminate the Plan in a way that will reduce the amount that has been accrued in your deferred compensation account prior to the
effective date of the amendment, modification or termination.      The determinations and interpretations of the Plan made by the Plan
Administrator shall be final, binding, and conclusive for all purposes under the Plan. The Plan Administrator may prescribe forms for participants to take action authorized or allowed under the Plan and may appoint agents and consult legal counsel
and other professionals to assist in administration of the Plan. The Plan Administrator may, in his or her discretion, adjust the value of a deferred compensation account on a basis other than as prescribed in deferral or reallocation elections,
including but not limited to the use of investment tracking funds other than those selected by the participant. The Plan Administrator will administer any claims under the Plan by following Section 503 of ERISA, any applicable regulations, and
any other procedures the Plan Administrator adopts.      The Plan Administrator may reject or reform a deferral election on any lawful basis, and
may conform any provision of the Plan to Legal Deferral Requirements. Where consistent with such requirements, the Plan Administrator may pay deferred compensation regardless of the participant s election for payment at another time.
     INVESTMENT TRACKING FUNDS AND INDICES - ADDITIONAL INFORMATION      Each investment tracking fund and index mirrors the performance of the actual fund or index to which it refers. Following are descriptions and historic performance data for the actual funds and indices,
determined on a Total Return basis. Total Return means the change in price or value, plus dividends (if any) on a reinvested basis, less any management fees or expenses that apply under the actual fund.   
  There is no guarantee that any of the funds will achieve its objectives or increase in value. Except to the extent you choose the investment tracking
fund for the MetLife SIP Fixed Income Fund, your deferrals may lose value. Each actively managed fund has investment management fees and/or other expenses associated with it. The descriptions below are derived from information provided by the funds
and other sources deemed to be reliable by the Plan Administrator.      ACTIVELY MANAGED FUNDS   
  METLIFE SIP FIXED INCOME FUND: The fund seeks to generate a predictable return through a specified interest rate, with preservation of original principle
invested. The fund is reviewed periodically and may be changed, up or down as appropriate based on a number of factors, including investment market conditions and the performance of the fund managers. The fund invests in several MetLife issued GIC
(Guaranteed Investment Contracts) alternatives, which consist of bonds, international securities, public utilities and similar corporate issues.      LORD ABBETT BOND DEBENTURE FUND: This fund (the Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Portfolio of the Met Investor Series Trust) is a mutual fund investment choice available   
         Page 10

under various variable insurance contracts issued by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and its affiliates. The fund seeks to provide high current income and the opportunity for capital
appreciation to produce a high total return. Under normal circumstances, the fund invests substantially all (at least 80%) of its net assets in debt securities of various types. The fund normally invests substantially all of its assets in high yield
and investment-grade debt securities. It may invest in convertible securities. Up to 80% of the fund s total assets may be invested in high-yield/high-risk debt securities ( junk bonds ). At least 20% of the fund s assets must be
invested in any combination of investment-grade debt securities, U.S. Government securities, and cash equivalents. The fund may also invest up to 20% of its net assets in equity securities including common stocks, preferred stocks, convertible
preferred stocks, warrants and similar instruments. The fund may invest up to 15% of its assets in credit default swaps. The fund may also invest up to 20% of its net assets in debt and equity securities primarily traded in foreign countries. The
fund attempts to invest in securities selling at reasonable prices in relation to the adviser s assessment of its potential value. (1, 2, 3)      OAKMARK FUND(R): This fund is a mutual fund and seeks to achieve long-term capital appreciation following a value style by investing primarily in the common stocks of U.S. companies. (4)   
  METLIFE SIP SMALL COMPANY STOCK FUND: This fund is an individually managed fund that seeks to generate long-term growth of capital by investing in the
stocks of small U.S. companies with strong growth potential. The fund seeks to outperform the Russell 2000(R) Growth Index, which measures the performance of small company stocks with lower market capitalization. (5)   
  OAKMARK INTERNATIONAL FUND: This fund is a mutual fund and seeks to achieve long-term capital appreciation following a value style by investing primarily
in the common stocks of non-U.S. companies. The fund may invest in mature markets (e.g., Japan, Canada, United Kingdom) and in less developed markets (e.g., Mexico, Brazil, South Korea). Ordinarily, the fund will invest in the securities of at least
five countries outside the U.S. There are no geographic limits on the fund s foreign investments, but the fund does not expect to invest more than 35% of its assets in securities of companies based in emerging markets. (3, 4)   
  MARKET INDEXES      S P 500(R) INDEX: This
index includes some of the 500 largest capitalized stocks in the U.S. and is one of the most widely recognized and used benchmarks of U.S. equity performance.      RUSSELL 2000(R) INDEX: This index measures stock performance of 2,000 smaller U.S. companies with market capitalization under $2 billion as of May 31, 2006. (5)   
  NASDAQ COMPOSITE(R) INDEX: The Nasdaq Composite Index measures all Nasdaq domestic and international-based common-type stocks listed on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. The Nasdaq Composite includes over 3,000 securities. (3, 6)      MSCI EAFE(R) INDEX: The Morgan Stanley Capital International Europe,
Australasia, Far East Index is a benchmark for developed market equity performance, excluding the United States and Canada. (3)   
         Page 11

LEHMAN BROTHERS(R) AGGREGATE BOND INDEX: A benchmark index comprised of the Lehman Brothers
Government/Credit Index, the Lehman Brothers Mortgage-Backed Securities Index, the Lehman Brothers Asset-Backed Securities Index, and the Lehman Brothers Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities Index. Fixed income securities in the index include debt
obligations issued or guaranteed by the U.S. government or its agencies and instrumentalities, debt issued or guaranteed by U.S. corporations, foreign companies, municipalities, government and international agencies, asset-backed securities and
mortgage-backed securities. Lehman Brothers refers to this index as the Lehman Brothers U.S. Aggregate Index. (1, 3)      MERRILL LYNCH US HIGH
YIELD MASTER II INDEX: The Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II Index tracks the performance of below investment-grade U.S. dollar-denominated corporate bonds publicly issued in the U.S. domestic market. (1, 2)   
  MSCI EMERGING MARKETS INDEX(SM): The MSCI Emerging Markets Index is designed to measure equity market performance in global emerging markets. As of June
2006, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index consisted of the following 25 emerging market country indices: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, Czech Republic, Egypt, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Israel, Jordan, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco,
Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Russia, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand and Turkey. (3)      SINGLE-STOCK FUND   
  METLIFE COMMON STOCK FUND: The performance of this fund will depend on the price of MetLife, Inc common stock, which is affected by market condition and
other factors, such as declared dividends. Like other individual stock funds, this fund is anticipated to have a relatively high risk profile. The performance of this fund also includes the value of reinvested dividends on MetLife, Inc. common
stock, if any.       

(1)  
  Invests in bonds and other fixed-income securities, which involve both credit risk and market risk. Credit risk is the risk that the security s issuer will not pay
the interest, dividends or principal that it has promised to pay. Market risk is the risk that the value of the security will fall because of changes in market rates of interest or other factors. Interest rate risk is the risk that values of
fixed-income security may fall as interest rates rise. This risk is greater for longer term securities.         

(2)  
  Lower rated, high-yield debt securities generally involve a greater risk of default by the issuer (i.e., higher credit risk). These securities may also be subject to
greater market price fluctuations than higher rated, lower yielding debt securities.         

(3)  
  Securities of foreign issuers pose additional risks that are not associated with U.S. domestic securities, such as changes in currency exchange rates, different
governmental regulations, fluctuating economic conditions, accounting standards and political instability.         

(4)  
  Invests in stocks that tend to trade at lower prices relative to their fundamental financial characteristics and are therefore considered under valued. Value stocks can
perform differently than other categories of stocks (e.g., growth stocks) and can continue to be undervalued by the market for long periods of time.         

(5)  
  Investments in small capitalization and emerging growth companies involve greater than average risk. Such securities may have limited marketability and the issues may
have limited product lines, markets, and financial resources. The value of such investments may fluctuate more widely than investments in larger, more established companies.     

(6)  
  This index is comprised to a significant degree in technology issues. The technology industry can be significantly affected by obsolescence, short product cycles,
failing profits and prices, and competition from new market participants. A choice that is weighted in one sector is more volatile than those that diversify across many industry sectors.     
         Page 12

TOTAL RETURN      HISTORIC FUND   INDEX PERFORMANCE BY CALENDAR YEAR      As of
September 30, 2006      These figures are past performance and are not an indication of future performance. Note: Unit values fluctuate and
amounts received upon distribution may be more or less than deferrals and any matching contributions. Current performance may be lower or higher than the performance figures quoted. More information regarding the performance of the investment
tracking funds may be found at the  Plan Information  link located on your participant account Home page at www.benefitplanservices.com/metlife.       

(1)  
  All performance shown for the MetLife SIP Fixed Income Fund and the MetLife SIP Small Company Stock Fund are net of investment management fees and other expenses. Both
funds have been available as tracking funds in the Plan since January 1, 1998. Returns in the MetLife SIP Fixed Income Fund are credited to participants  balances by crediting a daily interest factor that produces the effective annual
return that is declared for the fund. The effective annual interest rate for the MetLife SIP Fixed Income Fund is currently 5%.     

(2)  
  The Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Fund (Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Portfolio of the Met Investors Series Trust, Class A shares) is a mutual fund investment choice
available under various variable insurance contracts issued by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and its affiliates. The Loomis Sayles High Yield Bond Portfolio of the Metropolitan Series Fund was merged into the Lord Abbett Bond Debenture
Portfolio after the close of business on April 26, 2002. Performance for the Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Portfolio includes performance of the Loomis Sayles High Yield Bond Portfolio prior to April 27, 2002, and performance of the Lord
Abbett Debenture Portfolio after April 26, 2002. All performance is shown net of the Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Portfolio s investment management fees and other expenses.     

(3)  
  The Oakmark Fund and the Oakmark International Fund are mutual funds. All performance is shown net of investment management fees and other expenses. The Oakmark Fund
and Oakmark International Fund have been available as tracking funds in the Plan since January 1, 1998.     
         Page 13

(6)  
  The Nasdaq Composite Index, Lehman Brothers Aggregate Bond Index (Lehman Brothers refers to this index as the Lehman Brothers U.S. Aggregate Index), and Merrill Lynch
US High Yield Master II Index have been available as tracking funds in the Plan since January 1, 2001.     

(7)  
  The MSCI EAFE Index and the MSCI Emerging Markets Index have been available as tracking funds in the Plan since January 1, 2001. The name of the MSCI EMF Index
tracking fund has been changed to MSCI Emerging Markets Index to reflect the corresponding change of name in this MSCI market index.     

(8)  
  Investment-tracking on participants  accounts will be done using the Total Return measure (the percentage change in the unit price, plus the impact of reinvested
dividends) for all funds, including the S P 500 Index, Russell 2000 Index, Nasdaq Composite Index, MSCI EAFE Index, and MSCI Emerging Markets Index tracking funds. Returns in this chart reflect the Total Return measure for all periods shown for
all funds except the Nasdaq Composite Index, for which 2004 returns reflect the Total Return measure and 2000-2003 returns reflect the Price Return measure. Total Return information on the Nasdaq Composite Index is not available prior to 2004.
Investment-tracking for periods prior to January 2005 was done using the Price Return measure (the percentage change in the unit price, without reinvested dividends) for the S P 500 Index, Russell 2000 Index, Nasdaq Composite Index, MSCI EAFE
Index, and MSCI Emerging Markets Index tracking funds. The preceding sentence applies only to the MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for Officers and the MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan For Outside Directors, which provided for deferral of
compensation prior to January 2005; performance charts in the program descriptions for elections that were offered under those plans reflected the Price Return measure.     

(9)  
  The MetLife Deferred Shares Fund has been available as a tracking fund since May 1, 2001 for MetLife Directors. The Performance data is obtained from MetLife, Inc.
Returns reflect the MetLife stock price (MET), including reinvested dividends, as reported by MetLife, Inc.     

(10)  
  Performance data is obtained from MetLife, Inc. Returns reflect the MetLife stock price (MET), including reinvested dividends, as reported by MetLife, Inc.
    
         Page 14

PROSPECTUS INFORMATION      In connection with the obligations of MetLife, Inc. under the Plan, the following constitute the prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended:

1.  
  The information set forth in this Program Description;         

2.  
  Any other written documents delivered to participants updating or revising the information in item 1 above. Those documents will contain a legend indicating that they
constitute a part of the prospectus covering the obligations being offered as permitted by the Plan;         

3.  
  Each of the following documents filed by MetLife, Inc. with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Commission ), which are incorporated by reference in
this prospectus:         

c)  
  All documents subsequently filed by MetLife, Inc. pursuant to Sections 13(a), 13(c), 14 and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, prior to the
filing of a post-effective amendment which indicates that all securities offered have been sold or which de-registers all securities then remaining unsold.        You may obtain a copy of the above filings described in items 1 and 2, at no cost, by calling BPSI at 1-800-340-8151. Filings described in item 3 and any other documents MetLife, Inc. provides to its
shareholders may be obtained, at no cost, at www.metlife.com (by clicking on Investor Relations) or by calling 1-800-649-3593. You may also request copies of any of the above documents by writing to the MetLife Corporate Secretary, 200 Park Avenue,
New York, NY 10166-0188.   
         Page 15

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this MetLife Non-Management Director Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated
effective January 1, 2005, is approved.      PLAN ADMINISTRATOR   

Witness:  
     
    /s/ Rose Alston    
 
         Page 16

</EX-10.75>

<EX-10.76>
 24
 d302570dex1076.htm
 AMENDMENT NUMBER ONE TO THE METLIFE NON-MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR

Amendment Number One to the MetLife Non-Management Director 

Exhibit 10.76        Amendment Number One to        The MetLife Non-Management Director Deferred
Compensation Plan        (as amended and restated as of December, 2006) (the  Plan )    
  The Plan is hereby amended in the manner set forth below:      1. The second paragraph of the section entitled  Investment Tracking for Your Deferred Cash Accounts  is amended and restated to read as follows:   
  The Plan Administrator may eliminate or replace any investment tracking fund or index at any time. When the Plan Administrator has
determined to make a change, you will be informed and you will be given an opportunity to change your investment tracking selections to the extent they are affected by the change. Changes to investment tracking fund or index may be made without
amending the Plan document, but will be reflected in the next amended and restated Plan document.      2. This Amendment will be
effective immediately upon execution.      3. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the Plan (including any amendments
thereto) shall continue in full force and effect without amendment.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this amendment is approved.   
  PLAN ADMINISTRATOR       

/s/ Andrew J. Bernstein for Margery Brittain    
 
  Date: 2-26-07   
 
  Witness:  
     
  /s/ Joo Young Kang   

</EX-10.76>

<EX-10.80>
 25
 d302570dex1080.htm
 METLIFE AUXILIARY PENSION PLAN

MetLife Auxiliary Pension Plan 

Exhibit 10.80      METLIFE AUXILIARY PENSION PLAN      Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ( Company ) hereby
amends and restates the MetLife Auxiliary Pension Plan ( Plan ) effective June 30, 2006.      Part I   
  Part I of this Plan document contains the provisions of the Plan that govern 409A Benefits as defined in Article 4.1(a) of Part I. All
references to  409A  or  Section 409A  in this Plan are references to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations there under.      Article 1. Purpose of Plan.      The purpose of the Plan is to provide to certain participants
employed by the Company, other employers (each an  Employer ) participating under the Metropolitan Life Retirement Plan for United States Employees ( Retirement Plan ) and his/her beneficiaries, the excess amount that would have
been payable under the Retirement Plan in the absence of the limitations under (i) section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as amended) ( Internal Revenue Code ), (ii) section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code, or such
lesser limit as in effect under the Retirement Plan and (iii) section 1.415-2(d)(2) of the Income tax Regulations, that excludes compensation deferred under the Company s or an Employer s deferred compensation arrangements.   
  Except for terms defined in this Plan, all capitalized terms used in this Plan shall have the same definition and meaning assigned to those terms under
the Retirement Plan.      Article 2. Participation      A Participant in the Plan is any Employee that is eligible under Section 2.1, 2.2 or 2.3 below:   
  2.1. An Employee participating in the Retirement Plan:       

(a)  
  whose Retirement Plan benefits are reduced because of the application of Section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code (or such lesser limit as in effect under the
Retirement Plan), or,         

(b)  
  whose Retirement Plan benefits are reduced because of the application of section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code, including Treasury Regulation 1.415-2.
       shall be eligible to participate in the Plan as stated in all Articles except Section 4.2 of Article 4 and Article 4A.
  
         1   

2.2. PRA/PLS Benefit.  PRA/PLS Benefit  means a benefit that is either a Personal Retirement
Account benefit or a Performance Pension Account benefit under the Retirement Plan. Likewise, any benefit referred to as a  non PRA/PLS Benefit  or  not a PRA/PLS Benefit  refers to benefits under the Retirement Plan that are not
PRA/PLS Benefits.      An Employee with a benefit that is not a PRA/PLS Benefit participating in the Retirement Plan who:   

(a)  
  is in a compensation grade of 36 or higher (or an equivalent compensation grade), or,     

(b)  
  is a member of the Chairman s Council for 3 consecutive years, or,         

(c)  
  is listed in Appendix A, or,         

(d)  
  has been inducted into the Sales Representative Hall of Fame and has attained the age of 65     

shall  
  be eligible to participate in the Plan as stated in all Articles.        If an Employee is an eligible Participant in the Plan under Section 2.1 of this Article, and on or after January 1, 1995, he/she qualifies as a Participant under Section 2.2 of this Article, then the
portion of his/her benefit that is not a PRA/PLS Benefit that has accrued to that Employee shall be determined and payable as if the Employee was always eligible under Section 2.2 of this Article. If, after qualifying as a Participant under Section
2.2 of this Article, an individual s compensation grade drops below level 36 (or its equivalent), or the individual ceases to qualify for the Chairman s Council, then that individual shall continue to be treated as if he or she meets the
requirements of Section 2.2 of this Article.      2.3. An Employee participating in the Retirement Plan:   

(a)(i)  
  who participated and accrued benefits in either of the following plans.:         

The New England Life Insurance Company Select Employee s Supplemental Retirement Plan, or      

New England Life Insurance Company Supplemental Retirement Plan, and,      

(ii)  
  who, on December 31, 2000, was actively employed by New England Life Insurance Company, the Company or an Employer,     
  shall be eligible, on January 1, 2001, to participate in this Plan, except Section 4.2 of Article 4 and Article 4A. These individuals shall have his/her
entire auxiliary defined benefit as defined in Article 4.2 (and including amounts previously accrued under the New England plans named above) paid under this Plan, in accordance with the terms of this Plan. These individuals shall be eligible to
participate in this Plan as stated in Section 4.2 of Article 4 and Article 4A if they qualify as a Participant under Section 2.2 of this Article after December 31, 2000.   
         2   

(b)(i)  
  who participated and accrued benefits in the GenAmerica Corporation Augmented Benefit Plan, (only insofar as it relates to benefits on compensation that exceeded the
limits imposed by or upon the GenAmerica Corporation Performance Pension Plan and Trust.) and,         

(ii)  
  who, on December 31, 2002, was actively employed by General American Life Insurance Company, the Company or an Employer,     
  shall be eligible, on January 1, 2003, to participate in this Plan, except Section 4.2 of Article 4 and Article 4A. These individuals shall have his/her
entire auxiliary defined benefit as defined in Section 4.2 (and including amounts previously accrued under the Augmented Benefit Plan) paid under this Plan, in accordance with the terms of this Plan. These individuals shall be eligible to
participate in Section 4.2 of Article 4 and Article 4A of this Plan if they qualify as a Participant under Section 2.2 of this Article after December 31, 2002.      Article 3. Vesting      Participants will vest in their accrued benefit, described in Article 4.2,
under this Plan in accordance with the vesting schedule under the Retirement Plan.      All benefits accrued by Participants under this Plan,
prior to a Change of Control as defined in Article 8, shall vest if the Participant satisfies the vesting schedule that existed under the Retirement Plan immediately prior to the Change of Control.   
  Article 4. Payment of Benefits      4.1.
Definitions.       

(a)  
  409A Benefits.  409A Benefits  For individuals who are eligible under Section 2.2 on or before December 31, 2006,  409A Benefits  means the portion
of a Participant s vested benefit that accrues after December 31, 2004. For all other Participants in the Plan  409A Benefits  means his/her entire accrued benefit payable under this Plan.     

(b)  
  Grandfathered Benefits.  Grandfathered Benefits  means the portion of a Participant s benefit vested and accrued prior to January 1, 2005 plus any other
increases or amounts that can be included in the grandfathered benefit under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and the regulations there under. Only individuals who:     

(ii)  
  are described in Section 4.6(c) and (d) of the Plan, or     
         3   

(iii)  
  terminated on or before December 31, 2004 with a vested benefit that is not a PRA/PLS Benefit will have  Grandfathered Benefits  under this Plan.
       4.2. Benefits under this Plan shall be payable to a Participant in an amount equal to the difference, as determined by the Plan
Administrator in its sole discretion, between (a) and (b) below:       

(a)  
  the largest amount (without duplication of amount) that would have been payable to the Participant under the Retirement Plan, had the Retirement Plan not been subject
to the limitations of Internal Revenue Code Sections: (i) 415, (ii) 401(a)(17) or such lesser limit as stated in the Retirement Plan, and (iii) Regulation Section 1. 415-2(d)(2) (with respect to deferred compensation arrangements); and,

(b)  
  the amount of benefits payable under the Retirement Plan and any predecessor auxiliary plan.        4.3. Distribution of 409A Benefits      Participants who have an election on file that complies with
409A, as determined by the Plan Administrator, and specifies the time and form for distribution of benefits, will have that election govern payment. If a Participant does not have an election on file that complies with 409A, then benefits commencing
during 2006 will continue to follow, in time and form, the Participant s distributions under the Retirement Plan. With regard to benefits commencing after December 31, 2006, the time/form of payment for the Participant s 409A Benefits will
be as specified below:       

(a)  
  PRA/PLS Benefits will be paid in a lump sum as soon as administratively possible after separation from service.     

(b)  
  Benefits that are not PRA/PLS Benefits will be paid in the following annuity forms commencing after separation from service and attainment of Retirement eligibility:

(i)  
  Participants who are not married at the time distributions commence will receive a life annuity with a 5 year term certain.     

(ii)  
  Participants who are married at the time distributions commence will receive a 50% contingent survivor annuity, with the spouse of the Participant as the survivor
annuitant.         

(c)  
  PRA/PLS Benefits for Participants who terminated on or before December 31, 2006, will be paid in a lump sum as soon as administratively possible after December 31,
2006.     
         4   

(d)  
  Participants with benefits that are not PRA/PLS Benefits, who separated from service and are Retirement eligible as of December 31, 2006, will have benefits paid to
him/her in the appropriate annuity form specified in (b)(i) or (ii) above, commencing as soon as administratively possible after December 31, 2006.         

(e)  
  Alternate payees receiving benefits under the Plan through a Qualified Domestic Relations Order ( QDRO ) as defined under section 414 (p) of the Internal
Revenue Code, will receive benefits in the time and form specified in the QDRO. In the absence of a specified time for payment in the QDRO the alternate payee will have benefits paid to them at the same time as benefits are paid under this Plan to
the Participant from whom his/her interest in the Plan arose. In the absence of a specified form of payment in the QDRO, the alternate payee will have benefits paid to them under either (i) or (ii) below :     

(i)  
  For alternate payees whose interest arose from a Participant who was a Participant under Article 2.2 of the Plan the alternate payee s form of benefit will be the
same form payable to the Participant under the Plan.,         

(ii)  
  For alternate payees whose interest arose from a Participant with a PRA/PLS Benefit under the Plan, the alternate payee s form of benefit will be a lump sum
payment as soon as administratively possible after separation from service,         

(iii)  
  For alternate payees whose interest arose from a Participant who was not a Participant under Article 2.2 of the Plan and who had a benefit that was not a PRA/PLS
Benefit, the alternate payee will receive his/her benefit in the form of a life annuity with a 5 year term certain.        In no event will benefits be distributed under a QDRO at any time or in any form not allowed, in the sole discretion of the Plan Administrator, under the Plan or under the laws governing this Plan.
Alternate payees have the status of beneficiaries under this Plan.      4.4 Notwithstanding the default forms of payment listed in Article 4.3
above:       

(a)  
  the Company intends all forms of payment to be treated as a single payment and Participants with annuity forms of benefit under Article 4.3 above, will be able to
elect, in accordance with Internal Revenue Code Section 409A, as determined by the Plan Administrator, among actuarially equivalent annuity forms of benefit any time prior to the payment commencement date for such benefit.     

(b)  
  any Participant identified as a Key Employee as that term is defined under 409A, and, whose benefit is payable due to separation from service or Retirement shall not
have his/her 409A Benefits commence under this Plan in any form until six months have elapsed since his/her separation or Retirement. The determination of who is a Key Employee will be based on taxable compensation paid during the 12-month period
ending August 31st of the calendar year immediately preceding the year of the distribution.     
         5   

4.5 Only for those individuals who are eligible under Article 2.2, Final Average Compensation used to
determine the largest amount that would have been payable under Article 4.2(a) above, will be based on the following rules, notwithstanding the actual provisions of the Retirement Plan.      For an eligible Participant that is not a Commissioned Employee under the Retirement Plan, Final Average Compensation will be the sum of (a) and (b) below:   

(a)  
  The base salary component of the Participant s Final Average Compensation is determined using the average of the Participant s base salary for the 60 highest
consecutive months during the 120 months preceding the Participant s date of Retirement or termination, and,         

(b)  
  The component of the Participant s Final Average Compensation representing the MetLife Annual Variable Incentive Compensation Plan or successor annual cash bonus
plan or program ( AVIP ) award will be determined using the average of the Participant s highest 5 AVIP payments (not necessarily consecutive) with respect to the 10 calendar years preceding such Participant s date of Retirement
or termination (including any projected payment(s) to be made beyond the Participant s date of Retirement or termination).        The AVIP award, as set forth in subsection (b) immediately above, projected to be made beyond the Participant s date of Retirement or termination will be deemed equal to the result of the following
calculation, as determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion:       

(i)  
  the highest of the last 3 bonuses/awards paid while the Participant was in active Company service multiplied by     

(ii)  
  a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months (or part thereof) that the Participant was actively employed in the calendar year(s) for which the
bonus/award would be payable and the denominator of which is 12.         

(iii)  
  If the fraction determined under (ii) immediately above, is less than 1, then, the fractional amount determined under (ii) shall replace an equivalent fractional amount
in the lowest of the 5 highest AVIP payments used in (b) above. This replacement shall occur only if the fractional amount determined under (ii) is greater than the fractional amount it is replacing in the lowest of the 5 highest AVIP payments.
       Notwithstanding (b)(i), (ii) and (iii), if a specific amount of bonus/award was already approved under the AVIP, prior to the
Participant s date of Retirement or termination, such amount shall be used instead of the deemed estimate, and such amount shall also be taken into account in determining the highest of the Participant s last 3 bonuses/awards with regard
to any bonus/award payable for the Participant s year of Retirement or termination.   
         6   

If, at the time of Retirement or termination, fewer than 5 AVIP payments have been made to a Participant,
then the AVIP component of Final Average Compensation shall be the average of: all AVIP payments actually made to the Participant and the projected payment (described above) for the year of Retirement or termination.   
  For eligible Participants that are compensated on a commission basis, Final Average Compensation will be the amount described in appropriate provisions
of the Retirement Plan.      4.6. Except as described in (a) through (e) immediately below, Grandfathered Benefits shall be payable in the same
form(s) and at the same times as benefits are payable under the Retirement Plan.       

(a)  
  Alternative Distributions of the benefit under Article 4A shall be paid in the form, and at the time stated in the election form completed by the Participant and
approved by the Committee.         

(b)  
  Pre-Distribution Death Benefits as described in Article 4A.5 shall be paid in accordance with the terms of that Article.     

(c)  
  Individuals who:         

(i)  
  had accrued benefits under the New England Life Insurance Company s non-qualified Plans listed in Section 2.3,     

(iii)  
  did not become Employees of the Company or an Employer upon that termination of employment,        will have his/her benefits paid from this Plan in the amounts, at the times and in the form provided for under the provisions of those prior plans.   

(d)  
  Individuals who:         

(i)  
  had accrued benefits under the GenAmerica Corporation Augmented Benefit Plan,     

(iii)  
  did not become Employees of the Company or an Employer upon that termination of employment,        will have his/her entire auxiliary defined benefit paid from this Plan in the amounts, at the times, and in the form provided for under the provisions of that prior plan.   

(e)  
  Individuals described in Section 2.3 shall have his/her entire auxiliary defined benefit (including amounts previously accrued under the plans named in Section 2.3)
paid under this Plan, in accordance with the terms of this Plan.     
         7   

4.7 Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, the payment of benefits under this Plan shall not be
effected by, or be subject to, the qualified pre-retirement survivor annuity and qualified joint and survivor annuity rules under the Retirement Equity Act of 1984.      Payment of benefits under this Plan will not be effected by, or be subject to, minimum distributions as described under Section 401(a)(9) of the Internal Revenue Code and the accompanying Regulations
under that Section.      Article 4A. Alternative Distribution      Alternative forms of distribution are available only to those individuals who are eligible Participants under Section 2.2 herein on or before December 31, 2006. Alternative forms of distribution may be
elected by eligible Participants under Section 2.2 on or before December 31, 2006 and may apply to his/her 409A benefit as allowed under the transition relief provided under 409A. After December 31, 2006, alternative forms of distribution can only
be elected by eligible individuals under Section 2.2 for his/her Grandfathered Benefits.      4A.1 Definitions   

(a)  
  Alternative Distribution.  Alternative Distribution  means one of the following modes of payment:     

(i)  
  Single Sum: Payment in a single sum.         

(ii)  
  Installment Payments for a Specific Period: Monthly or annual payments are made to the Participant for a specified number of years selected (not exceeding 20 years). If
the Participant dies before the expiration of the specified period, installment payments will continue to be made for the remainder of the period chosen by the Participant to a beneficiary designated by the Participant.     

(iii)  
  Other Distribution: Any other form of payment that is mutually agreed upon by the Participant and the Committee.     

(b)  
  Committee.  Committee  means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company. The Committee, or either component thereof, may delegate any
of its powers or authority under this Plan in any manner consistent with law.         

(c)  
  Election Date.  Election Date  means the date on which the Participant files his/her request for an Alternative Distribution. For Participants who are
Retirement eligible when they separate from service with the Company or an Employer, this date can be no later than the day before the Participant s Retirement or termination date. For Participants who are not Retirement eligible when they
separate from service with the Company or an Employer, this date can be no later than 12 months before the Distribution Date.     
         8   

(d)  
  Distribution Date.  Distribution Date  means the date distributions commence under the mode of payment elected by the Participant. For Participants who are
Retirement eligible when they separate from service with the Company or an Employer, this date cannot be earlier than the Participant s Retirement or termination date. For Participants who are not Retirement eligible when they separate from
service with the Company or an Employer, this date cannot be earlier than the later of:         

(i)  
  12 months following the Participant s Election Date, and         

(ii)  
  the earliest date the Participant becomes eligible for a distribution from the Retirement Plan.        4A.2. Payment in the Form of an Alternative Distribution.      In order to receive an Alternative
Distribution: (i) a request form must be duly filed by the Participant in compliance with both the provisions of this Article 4A and the procedures as set forth from time to time by the Committee, (ii) consent thereto must be given by the Committee,
and (iii) payment in the form of an Alternative Distribution must be made pursuant to a request form that satisfies 409A and the regulations there under.      4A.3. Election of Alternative Distribution.      A form requesting that 409A Benefits under this Plan
be paid in the form of an Alternative Distribution must be submitted by the Participant to the Committee no later than the last date specified under 409A transition relief for submitting elections with regard to 409A Benefits. Request forms for an
Alternative Distribution of 409A Benefits will be accepted at the discretion of the Plan Administrator. For Participants who are separated from service with the Company or an Employer before they are Retirement eligible, the form requesting an
Alternative Distribution must have an Election Date no later than 12 months before the Distribution Date indicated on the election form. All requests must be in writing, signed by the Participant, and follow the format prescribed by the Committee.
On the request form the Participant must also designate (i) the mode of payment requested and (ii) the Participant s Retirement or Distribution Date. A request form shall be deemed submitted by the Participant to the Committee on the day that
such form postmarked, if sent by U.S. mail, or on the day received by the Committee, if sent by means other than the U.S. mail. A form requesting an Alternative Distribution of 409A Benefits cannot be revoked or modified after the last date allowed
for transition period elections under 409A. Except that, individuals who elected an annuity form of payment for their 409A Benefits may be allowed to choose among actuarially equivalent annuity forms any time prior to commencement of payments as
allowed under 409A and in the discretion of the Plan Administrator. Any modification of the request form must be in writing, comply with the procedures of the Committee and is subject to the approval of the Committee.   
         9   

4A.4. Consent of the Committee.      Payment in the form of an Alternative Distribution shall require the consent of the Committee. The Committee shall have full and complete discretion to approve or reject any request for an Alternative
Distribution. The decision of the Committee on the Participant s request form shall be made known to the Participant in writing.      4A.5.
Death of Participant Before Distribution Date.       

(a)  
  A Participant under Section 2.2, who accrued Plan benefits other than PRA/PLS Benefits before death, shall have 50% of the present value of his/her undistributed non
PRA/PLS Benefit, (valued as a single sum under Section 4A.6(a) below and actuarially adjusted for payment at the Participant s earliest Retirement date or the day prior to death, if the Participant was Retirement eligible at death), paid to
his/her designated beneficiary. This pre-distribution death benefit will be payable in the form designated by the Participant and approved by the Committee.        A Participant may file with the Committee a form (which will become irrevocable only upon death) designating a beneficiary or changing his/her existing designation. This form will also allow the
Participant to choose the form in which the pre-distribution death benefit will be paid. All optional forms of benefit available to the Participant under this Plan and the Retirement Plan will be available for payment of this death benefit.

(b)  
  For salaried Participants covered under Section 2.2, a single sum, equivalent to the full value of a Participant s undistributed non PRA/PLS Benefit on the date of
the Participant s death, (valued under Section 4A.6(a)), shall be paid to the Participant s designated beneficiary if:         

(i)  
  the Participant notifies the Committee in a request form in effect on the Election Date of his or her anticipated Retirement date,     

(ii)  
  the Committee gives its consent to the payment of a Single Sum or Installment Payments for a Specific Period before the Distribution Date is reached,

(iii)  
  the Participant agrees to defer Retirement at the Company s written request,     

(iv)  
  the Distribution Date for payment of the Single Sum or Installment Payments for a Specific Period is deferred to the Participant s Retirement date, and

(v)  
  the Participant dies after such anticipated Retirement date but before Retirement.        In the absence of a designation by the Participant, the death benefit, under (a) or (b) immediately above, shall be paid to the Participant s surviving spouse in a single sum. If the Participant has
no surviving spouse at the time of death, then the death benefit shall be paid to the Participant s estate.   
         10   

4A.6. Valuation of Alternative Benefit   

(a)  
  The actuarial equivalent value of the Single Sum shall be determined using the UP 84 Mortality Table, set forward one year for the Participant and set back four years
for the Participant s spouse, (if applicable). If the Participant was Retirement eligible on December 31, 2004, then the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation immediate interest rate ( PBGC Rate ) used to calculate the Single Sum shall
be the lowest rate in effect in the 12 months prior to the Participant s actual Retirement date If the Participant was not Retirement eligible on December 31, 2004, then the PBGC Rate used to calculate the Single Sum shall be the rate in effect
in the month prior to the later of:         

(i)  
  the Participant s earliest Retirement date or         

(ii)  
  the Participant s actual Retirement date.         

(b)  
  The actuarial equivalent benefit amount for the Installment Payments for a Specific Period will be determined by converting the Single Sum benefit amount, determined
under Article 4A.6(a). The interest rate basis for the immediate annuity purchase rates offered under the Metropolitan Savings and Investment Plan ( SIP Rate ) and its successors utilized in the calculation of installment payments will be
as follows:         

(i)  
  If the Participant was Retirement eligible on December 31, 2004, the SIP Rate is the highest rate in the month that had the lowest PBGC Rate out of the12 months prior
to the Participant s actual Retirement date.         

(ii)  
  If the Participant was not on December 31, 2004, the SIP Rate is the rate in effect on the last day of the month prior to the later of:     

a.  
  the Participant s earliest Retirement date, or         

b.  
  the Participant s actual Retirement date.     
  4A.7. Interest on Deferred Installments   
  Individuals who elect deferred installment payments under the terms of this Article 4A, shall receive interest from the date they separate from service to
the date that the installment payments commence. Interest will be calculated based on the entire amount that the Participant has elected to receive as deferred installments under Article 4A. Interest will be credited using the SIP Rate in effect on
the Election Date and will be compounded annually from the date of separation from service to the date payments commence. The interest accrued prior to payment commencement will be added to the accrued Plan benefit to produce a total benefit amount.
This total benefit amount will be credited with the SIP Rate for the duration of the payment(s) and divided by the number of installment payments due under the Participant s election to produce uniform payments under the Plan. This interest
will be part of the Participant s 409A Benefit and will be paid in accordance with 409A.   
         11   

4A.8. Power of Committee.      The Committee shall have the discretionary power to make any and all administrative decisions regarding the election and payment of an Alternative Distribution, including but not limited to, (i) the
design and format of request forms, (ii) the approval or rejection of requests for an Alternative Distribution, (iii) the design and format of revocation forms and (iv) the sending of notices.   
  Article 5. Unfunded Plan.      The Plan is
completely unfunded. Except as obligations under this Plan have been undertaken pursuant to plans or other arrangements offered by another company, obligations under this Plan are obligations of the Company. All obligations under this Plan are
entirely separate from the Retirement Plan and any other plan. Participation in this Plan gives a Participant no right to any funds or assets of the Retirement Plan, or any other plan. The fact that contracts or certificates may be distributed to
recipients of benefits under the Retirement Plan in discharge of obligations thereunder shall in no way entitle a Participant in this Plan to receive any such contract or certificate in discharge of obligations under this Plan.   
  Article 6. Non-transferability of Participant s Interest      No Participant shall have any power or right to transfer, assign, mortgage, commute or otherwise encumber any of the Plan benefits payable hereunder, nor shall such benefits be subject to seizure for the
payment of any debts or judgments, or be transferable by operation of law in the event of bankruptcy, insolvency or otherwise.      Article 7.
Effect of Taxes      Payments under this Plan shall be made after withholding of any Federal, state or local income, employment or other taxes,
legally obligated to be withheld. All tax liabilities arising out of benefits under this Plan are the sole obligation of the Plan Participant(s) or his/her beneficiary, including but not limited to, any tax liabilities that may arise under Section
409A. In the event that a Participant or beneficiary incurs greater tax burdens from payments under this Plan (whether income, employment, estate or other tax burdens) than they would if such payments had been made from the Retirement Plan, neither
the Company nor any other person shall have an obligation to reimburse the Participant or beneficiary for such greater tax burdens.   
         12   

Article 8. Change of Control      8.1. Definitions.       

(a)  
  Change of Control. For the purposes of this Plan, a  Change of Control  shall be deemed to have occurred if:     

(i)  
  any Person acquires  beneficial ownership  (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange
Act )), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Corporation representing 25% or more of the combined Voting Power of the Corporation s securities;     

(ii)  
  within any 24-month period, the persons who were directors of the Corporation at the beginning of such period (the  Incumbent Directors ) shall cease to
constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the  Board ) or the board of directors of any successor to the Corporation; provided, however, that any director elected or nominated for election to the Board by
a majority of the Incumbent Directors then still in office shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director for purposes of this Section 8.1(a)(ii);         

(iii)  
  the stockholders of the Corporation approve a merger, consolidation, share exchange, division, sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of
the Corporation which is consummated (a  Corporate Event ), and immediately following the consummation of which the stockholders of the Corporation immediately prior to such Corporate Event do not hold, directly or indirectly, a majority
of the Voting Power of (A) in the case of a merger or consolidation, the surviving or resulting corporation, (B) in the case of a share exchange, the acquiring corporation, or (C) in the case of a division or a sale or other disposition of assets,
each surviving, resulting or acquiring corporation which, immediately following the relevant Corporate Event, holds more than 25% of the consolidated assets of the Corporation immediately prior to such Corporate Event; or     

(iv)  
  any other event occurs which the Board declares to be a Change of Control.     

(b)  
  Corporation. For the Purposes of this Article,  Corporation  means MetLife, Inc.     

(c)  
  Person. For purposes of the definition of Change of Control,  Person  shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as
supplemented by Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, and shall include any group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b) under the Exchange Act); provided, however, that  Person  shall not include (A) the Corporation or any Affiliate, (B)
the MetLife Policyholder Trust (or any person(s) who would otherwise be described herein solely by reason of having the power to control the voting of the shares held by that trust), or (C) any employee benefit plan (including an employee stock
ownership plan) sponsored by the Corporation, Company or any Affiliate.     
         13   

(d)  
  Voting Power. For purposes of the definition of Change of Control,  Voting Power  shall mean such number of Voting Securities as shall enable the holders
thereof to cast all the votes which could be cast in an annual election of directors of a company, and  Voting Securities  shall mean all securities entitling the holders thereof to vote in an annual election of directors of a company.

(e)  
  Affiliate. For the purposes of this article, an  Affiliate  shall mean any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust or other entity which
directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, the Corporation.         

(f)  
  Cause. For the purposes of this article,  Cause  means either:         

(i)  
  the Participant s conviction or plea of nolo contendere to a felony, or,     

(ii)  
  any act or acts of dishonesty or gross misconduct on the Participant s part which results or is intended to result in material damage to the business or reputation
of MetLife.         

(g)  
  Good Reason. For the purposes of this article,  Good Reason  means any of:     

(i)  
  any reduction by the Corporation or an Affiliate in the Participant s base salary rate below the rate in effect immediately before the Change of Control;

(ii)  
  any relocation by the Corporation or an Affiliate of the Participant s usual base work location to any other office or location more than 50 miles from the
Participant s usual base work location immediately prior to a Change of Control, or in a state other than the one in which the Participant performed his duties immediately prior to the Change of Control, in each case except for travel
reasonably required in the performance of the Participant s responsibilities;         

(iii)  
  if the Participant is a party to an Employment Continuation Agreement with the Corporation or an Affiliate, any circumstance or occurrence constituting  Good
Reason  under that Employment Continuation Agreement;         

(iv)  
  the failure of the Corporation or an Affiliate to pay the Employee s base salary or employee benefits as required by law.     

8.2.  
  Vesting and Other Rights on and After a Change of Control Subject to Conditions        In the event that:       

(a)  
  there is a Change of Control as defined in Section 8.1(a) of this Article, and,     
         14   

(b)  
  on the date of the Change of Control or on a date before the second anniversary of the Change of Control, a Participant in this Plan:     

(i)  
  is involuntarily terminated from employment by the Corporation or any Affiliate (other than directly in connection with a transfer of employment to or from the
Corporation or any Affiliate) without Cause,         

(ii)  
  voluntarily terminates employment with the Corporation or any Affiliate for Good Reason,        then the Participant s unvested benefits and rights accrued as of the Change of Control in each, the Retirement Plan and this Plan, will vest immediately under this Plan, notwithstanding any other
provision of the Retirement Plan or this Plan, or any amendment or termination of this Plan taking place on or after a Change of Control.   
  These accrued benefits will be paid under this Plan according to the ordinary distribution rules of this Plan. The ordinary distribution rules of this
Plan are described in Article 4 and where applicable, Article 4A as they existed immediately prior to the Change of Control. If this Section 8.2 is triggered, a Participant under Section 2.2 does not have to obtain Committee approval for an
Alternate Distribution in the form of a Single Sum or Installment Payments for a Specific Period, to the extent that an Alternative Distribution is available to that Participant under 409A.      Article 9. Interpretation of the Plan       

(a)  
  The Committee is empowered to take all actions it deems appropriate in administering this Plan. Any Committee determination with respect to the meaning or application
of the provisions of the Plan shall be binding and conclusive. Benefits will be paid under this Plan only if the Committee determines in its discretion that the applicant is entitled to them. Once a Change of Control (as defined in Article 8) has
occurred, this subpart (a) of Article 9 shall no longer apply.         

(b)  
  Claims for benefits and appeals of denied claims under the Plan shall be administered in accordance with Section 503 of ERISA, the regulations thereunder (and any other
law that amends, supplements or supersedes said Section of ERISA), and the procedures adopted by the Committee, as appropriate. The claims procedures referenced above are incorporated herein by reference.     
  Article 10. Governing Law      To the extent not
inconsistent with Federal law, the validity of the Plan and its provisions shall be construed according to the laws of the State of New York.   
         15   

Article 11. Amendment and Termination of Plan      11.1. Except to the extent prohibited by law, the Committee may amend or terminate this Plan at any time without the consent of any Participant or of any other person. However, any such amendment or
termination will not adversely affect the benefit entitlements of:       

(a)  
  any Participant receiving benefits under this Plan at or prior to the time of such amendment or termination, or,     

(b)  
  any Employee who is a Participant in the Retirement Plan to the extent of the present value of his/her accrued benefit under this Plan prior to the time of such
amendment or termination. However, amendments may be made to all other aspects of this Plan consistent with Section 409A, including, but not limited to:         

(i)  
  amendments impacting the timing under which the Participant s entire accrued benefit is paid, or,     

(ii)  
  amendments impacting the optional forms of benefit available for payment of the Participant s entire accrued benefit.     
  Notwithstanding the above, any amendment or group of amendments made effective on the same date, which would increase or decrease the annual cost of Plan
benefits for active Plan Participants and former Plan Participants by ten million dollars or more in the aggregate, as determined in good faith by the Committee, shall be effective only if authorized or ratified by the Board of Directors of the
Company.      11.2.       

(a)  
  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 11.1 above, or any other provision of this Plan, on or after a Change of Control (as defined in Article 8), no amendments can
be made to Article 8, Article 9 or Section 11.2 of Article 11 of this Plan; and         

(b)  
  Participants who:         

(i)  
  accrued rights or benefits under this Plan prior to a Change of Control (as defined in Article 8), and,     

(ii)  
  whose rights or benefits are not vested at the time of the Change of Control        cannot have the vesting schedule under Article 3, applicable on the day prior to the Change of Control, amended with regard to such rights or benefits. The Company may not wrongfully deny Participants the
opportunity to vest in rights or benefits accrued prior to a Change of Control under this Plan.      Part II   
  Part II of the this plan document contains the provisions of the Plan that will govern Grandfathered Benefits as defined in Article 4.1(b) of Part I of
this Plan.      Article 1. Purpose of Plan.      The purpose of the Plan is to provide to certain participants employed by the Company, other employers (each a  Subsidiary ) participating under the Metropolitan Life Retirement Plan for United
States Employees ( Retirement Plan ) and their beneficiaries, the   
         16   

excess amount that would have been payable under the Retirement Plan in the absence of the limitations under (i) section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as amended) ( Internal
Revenue Code ), (ii) section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code, or such lesser limit as in effect under the Retirement Plan and (iii) section 1.415-2(d)(2) of the Income tax Regulations, that excludes compensation deferred under the
Company s or a Subsidiary s deferred compensation arrangements.      Article 2. Participation   
  A Participant in the Plan is any employee that qualifies under Section 2.1, 2.2 or 2.3 below:      2.1. A Company or Subsidiary (including, but not limited to, a MetLife Group, Inc.) employee participating in the Retirement Plan:   

(a)  
  whose benefits are reduced because of the application of Section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code (or such lesser limit as in effect under the Retirement Plan),
or,         

(b)  
  whose benefits are reduced because of the application of section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code, including Treasury Regulation 1.415-2.     
  shall be eligible to participate in the Plan as stated in all Articles except Section 4.2 of Article 4 and Article 4A.   
  2.2. A Company or Subsidiary (including, but not limited to, a MetLife Group Inc.) employee participating in the Retirement Plan who:   

(a)  
  is in a compensation grade of 36 or higher (or an equivalent compensation grade), or,     

(b)  
  is a member of the Chairman s Council for 3 consecutive years, or,         

(c)  
  is listed in Appendix A, or,         

(d)  
  has been inducted into the Sales Representative Hall of Fame and has attained the age of 65        shall be eligible to participate in the Plan as stated in all Articles.      If an employee is an
eligible Participant in the Plan under Section 2.1 of this Article, and on or after January 1, 1995, he/she qualifies as a Participant under Section 2.2 of this Article, then the entire benefit that has accrued to that employee shall be payable as
if the employee always qualified as a Participant under Section 2.2 of this Article. If, after qualifying as a Participant under Section 2.2 of this Article, an individual s compensation grade drops below level 36 (or its equivalent), or the
individual ceases to qualify for the Chairman s Council, then that individual shall continue to be treated as if he or she meets the requirements of Section 2.2 of this Article.   
         17   

2.3. A Company or Subsidiary employee participating in the Retirement Plan:   

(a)(i)  
  who participated and accrued benefits in the New England Life Insurance Company s non-qualified Plans, (named in the first paragraph of this Plan), and,

(ii)  
  who, on December 31, 2000, was actively employed by New England Life Insurance Company, the Company or a Subsidiary,     
  shall be eligible, on January 1, 2001, to participate in this Plan, except Section 4.2 of Article 4 and Article 4A. These individuals shall have their
entire auxiliary defined benefit (including amounts previously accrued under the New England plans named in the first paragraph of this Plan) paid under this Plan, in accordance with the terms of this Plan. These individuals shall be eligible to
participate in this Plan as stated in Section 4.2 of Article 4 and Article 4A if they independently qualify as a Participant under Section 2.2 of this Article after December 31, 2000.   

(b)(i)  
  who participated and accrued benefits in the GenAmerica Corporation Augmented Benefit Plan, and,     

(ii)  
  who, on December 31, 2002, was actively employed by General American Life Insurance Company, the Company or a Subsidiary,     
  shall be eligible, on January 1, 2003, to participate in this Plan, except Section 4.2 of Article 4 and Article 4A. These individuals shall have their
entire auxiliary defined benefit (including amounts previously accrued under the Augmented Benefit Plan) paid under this Plan, in accordance with the terms of this Plan. These individuals shall be eligible to participate in Section 4.2 of Article 4
and Article 4A of this Plan if they independently qualify as a Participant under Section 2.2 of this Article after December 31, 2002.      Article
3. Vesting      Participants will vest in their accrued benefit under this Plan in accordance with the vesting schedule under the Retirement Plan.
     All benefits accrued by Participants under this Plan, prior to a Change of Control as defined in Article 8, shall vest if the Participant
satisfies the vesting schedule that existed under the Retirement Plan immediately prior to the Change of Control.   
         18   

Article 4. Payment of Benefits      4.1. Benefits under this Plan shall be payable to a Participant in an amount equal to the difference between:       

(a)  
  the largest amount (without duplication of amount) that would have been payable to the Participant under the Retirement Plan, had the Retirement Plan not been subject
to the limitations of Internal Revenue Code Sections: (i) 415, (ii) 401(a)(17) or such lesser limit as stated in the Retirement Plan, and (iii) Regulation Section 1. 415-2(d)(2) (with respect to deferred compensation arrangements); and,

(b)  
  the amount of benefits payable under the Retirement Plan and any predecessor Auxiliary Plan.        4.2. Only for those individuals who qualify as Participants in the Plan under Section 2.2, Final Average Compensation used to determine the largest amount that would have been payable under Section 4.1(a)
above, will be based on the following rules, notwithstanding the actual provisions of the Retirement Plan.      For qualifying Participants that
are not compensated on a commission basis, Final Average Compensation will be the sum of (a) and (b) below:       

(a)  
  The base salary component of the Participant s Final Average Compensation, determined using the average of the Participant s base salary for the 60 highest
consecutive months during the 120 months preceding the Participant s date of retirement or termination, and,         

(b)  
  The component of the Participant s Final Average Compensation representing the Annual Variable Incentive Compensation Plan or successor annual cash bonus plan or
program ( AVIP ) award will be determined using the average of the Participant s highest 5 AVIP payments, (not necessarily consecutive) with respect to, the 10 calendar years preceding such Participant s date of retirement or
termination, (including any projected payment(s) to be made beyond the Participant s date of retirement or termination).        The AVIP award, as set forth in subsection (b) immediately above, projected to be made beyond the Participant s date of retirement or termination will be deemed equal to:   

(i)  
  the highest of the last 3 bonuses/awards paid while the Participant was in active Company service multiplied by     

(ii)  
  a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months (or part thereof) that the Participant was actively employed in the calendar year(s) for which the
bonus/award would be payable and the denominator of which is 12.         

(iii)  
  If the fraction determined under (ii) immediately above, is less than 1, then, the fractional amount determined under (ii) shall replace an equivalent fractional amount
in the lowest of the 5 highest AVIP payments used in (b) above. This replacement shall occur only if the fractional amount determined under (ii) is greater than the fractional amount it is replacing in the lowest of the 5 highest AVIP payments.
    
         19   

Notwithstanding (b)(i), (ii) and (iii), if a specific amount of bonus/award was already approved under the
AVIP, prior to the Participant s date of retirement or termination, such amount shall be used instead of the deemed estimate, and such amount shall also be taken into account in determining the highest of the Participant s last 3
bonuses/awards with regard to any bonus/award payable for the Participant s year of retirement or termination.      For qualifying
Participants that are compensated on a commission basis, Final Average Compensation will be the amount described in appropriate provisions of the Retirement Plan.      4.3. Except as described in (a) through (e) immediately below, benefits payable under this Plan shall be payable in the same form(s) and at the same times as benefits are payable under the Retirement
Plan.       

(a)  
  Alternative Distributions under Article 4A shall be paid in the form, and at the time, stated in the election form completed by the Participant and approved by the
Committee.         

(b)  
  Pre-Distribution Death Benefits as described in Article 4A.5 shall be paid in accordance with the terms of that Article.     

(c)  
  If a Participant directs his or her accrued, Personal Retirement Account ( PRA ) or Performance Pension Account ( PPA ), benefit under the
Retirement Plan to be transferred to the Savings and Investment Plan, and, at the time the request is made, the Participant has an accrued benefit under the Auxiliary Savings and Investment Plan, then the Participant s accrued PRA or PPA
benefit under this Plan will be transferred to the Auxiliary Savings and Investment Plan and will be payable in accordance with the terms of the Auxiliary Savings and Investment Plan. If a Participant directs his or her accrued PRA or PPA benefit
under the Retirement Plan to be transferred to the Savings and Investment Plan, and at the time the request is made, the Participant has no accrued benefit under the Auxiliary Savings and Investment Plan, then the Participant s accrued PRA or
PPA benefit, under this Plan, will be paid to the Participant in a lump sum. The transfer discussed in the preceding sentence does not apply to a Participant s traditional formula benefit under the Retirement Plan or this Plan.

(d)  
  Individuals who:         

(i)  
  had accrued benefits under the New England Life Insurance Company s non qualified Plans listed in the first paragraph of this Plan,     

(iii)  
  did not become employees of the Company or a Subsidiary upon that termination of employment, will have their benefits paid from this Plan in the amounts, at the times
and in the form provided for under the provisions of those prior plans.     
         20   

(e)  
  Individuals who:         

(i)  
  had accrued benefits under the GenAmerica Corporation Augmented Benefit Plan,     

(iii)  
  did not become employees of the Company or a Subsidiary upon that termination of employment,        will have their entire auxiliary defined benefit paid from this Plan in the amounts, at the times, and in the form provided for under the provisions of that prior plan.   
  Individuals described in Section 2.3 shall have their entire auxiliary defined benefit (including amounts previously accrued under the plans named
in the first paragraph of this Plan) paid under this Plan, in accordance with the terms of this Plan.      Notwithstanding any provision to the
contrary, the payment of benefits under this Plan shall not be affected by, or be subject to, the qualified pre-retirement survivor annuity and qualified joint and survivor annuity rules under the Retirement Equity Act of 1984.   
  Article 4A. Alternative Distribution   
  Alternative forms of distribution are available only to those Participants in the Plan as defined in Section 2 of Article 2.   
  4A.1 Definitions       

(a)  
  Alternative Distribution.  Alternative Distribution  means one of the following modes of payment:     

(i)  
  Single Sum: Payment in a single sum.         

(ii)  
  Installment Payments for a Specific Period: Monthly or annual payments are made to the Participant for a specified number of years selected (not exceeding 20 years). If
the Participant dies before the expiration of the specified period, installment payments will continue to be made for the remainder of the period chosen by the Participant to a beneficiary designated by the Participant.     

(iii)  
  Other Distribution: Any other form of payment that is mutually agreed upon by the Participant and the Committee.     

(b)  
  Committee.  Committee  means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company or their designated agent(s).
    
         21   

(c)  
  Election Date.  Election Date  means the date on which the Participant files his/her request for an Alternative Distribution. For Participants who are
retirement eligible, as defined in the Retirement Plan, ( Retirement Eligible ) when they separate from service with the Company or a Subsidiary, this date can be no later than the day before the Participant s retirement or
termination date. For Participants who are not Retirement Eligible when they separate from service with the Company or a Subsidiary, this date can be no later than 12 months before the Distribution Date.     

(d)  
  Distribution Date.  Distribution Date  means the date distributions commence under the mode of payment elected by the Participant. For Participants who are
Retirement Eligible when they separate from service with the Company or a Subsidiary, this date cannot be earlier than the Participant s retirement or termination date. For Participants who are not Retirement Eligible when they separate from
service with the Company or a Subsidiary, this date cannot be earlier than the later of:         

(i)  
  12 months following the Participant s Election Date, and         

(ii)  
  the earliest date the Participant becomes eligible for a distribution from the Retirement Plan.        4A.2. Payment in the Form of an Alternative Distribution.      Auxiliary retirement benefits under
this Plan shall be payable in whole or in part to a Participant in the form of an Alternative Distribution provided (i) a request form is duly filed by the Participant in compliance with both the provisions of this Article 4A and the procedures
as set forth from time to time by the Committee and (ii) consent thereto is given by the Committee.      4A.3. Election of Alternative
Distribution.      A form requesting that auxiliary retirement benefits under this Plan be paid in the form of an Alternative Distribution must be
submitted by the Participant to the Committee no later than the day before the Participant s retirement date. For Participants who are separating from service with the Company or a Subsidiary before they are Retirement Eligible, the form
requesting an Alternative Distribution must be submitted by the Participant to the Committee no later than 12 months before the Distribution Date indicated on the election form. All requests must be in writing, signed by the Participant, and follow
the format prescribed by the Committee. On the request form the Participant must also designate (i) the mode of payment requested and (ii) the Participant s retirement or Distribution Date. A request form shall be deemed submitted by
the Participant to the Committee on the day that such form is received by the Committee. Prior to the Participant s retirement date, the request form can be revoked by the Participant. Any revocation must be in writing and comply with the
procedures of the Committee. A request form submitted by the Participant shall become irrevocable and binding as to all elections and designations made by the Participant as of the retirement date. In the event that a Participant s request form
is not filed before his/her retirement date, the Participant s Plan benefits will be paid in the same form as the   
         22   

benefits paid to the Participant under the Retirement Plan. For Participants who separate from service before they are Retirement Eligible, the request form shall become irrevocable and binding,
as to all elections and designations, 12 months before the Distribution Date.      4A.4. Consent of the Committee.   
  Payment in the form of an Alternative Distribution shall require the consent of the Committee. The Committee shall have full and complete discretion to
approve or reject any request for an Alternative Distribution. The decision of the Committee on the Participant s request form shall be made known to the Participant in writing.      4A.5. Death of Participant Before Distribution Date.       

(a)  
  A Participant under Section 2.2, who accrued benefits in this Plan under the traditional formula before death, shall have 50% of the present value of his/her
undistributed traditional formula benefit, (valued as a single sum under Section 4A.6(a) below and actuarially adjusted for payment at the Participant s earliest retirement date), paid to his/her designated beneficiary. This
pre-distribution death benefit will be payable in the form designated by the Participant and approved by the Committee.        A Participant may file with the Committee a form (which will become irrevocable only upon death) designating a beneficiary or changing their existing designation. This form will also allow the Participant
to choose the form in which the pre-distribution death benefit will be paid. All optional forms of benefit available to the Participant under this Plan and the Retirement Plan will be available for payment of this death benefit.   

(b)  
  For salaried Participants under Section 2.2, a single sum, equivalent to the full value of a Participant s undistributed traditional formula benefit on the
date of the Participant s death, (valued under Section 4A.6(a)), shall be paid to the Participant s designated beneficiary if:         

(i)  
  the Participant notifies the Committee in a request form in effect on the Election Date of his or her anticipated retirement date,     

(ii)  
  the Committee gives its consent to the payment of a Single Sum or Installment Payments for a Specific Period before the Distribution Date is reached,

(iii)  
  the Participant agrees to defer actual retirement at the Company s written request,     

(iv)  
  the Distribution Date for payment of the Single Sum or Installment Payments for a Specific Period is deferred to the Participant s actual retirement date, and

(v)  
  the Participant dies after such anticipated retirement date but before actual retirement.     
         23   

In the absence of a designation by the Participant, the death benefit, under (a) or
(b) immediately above, shall be paid to the Participant s surviving spouse in a single sum. If the Participant has no surviving spouse at the time of death, then the death benefit shall be paid to the Participant s estate.   
  4A.6. Valuation of Alternative Benefit       

(a)  
  The actuarial equivalent value of the Single Sum shall be determined using the UP 84 Mortality Table, set forward one year for the Participant and set back four years
for the Participant s spouse, (if applicable), and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation immediate interest rate.         

(b)  
  The actuarial equivalent benefit amount for the Installment Payments for a Specific Period will be determined by converting the Single Sum benefit amount, determined
under Article 4A.6(a), using the interest rate basis for the immediate annuity purchase rates offered under the Metropolitan Savings and Investment Plan and its successors.     

(c)  
  The interest rates referenced in Article 4A.6, (a) and (b) above shall be the rates in effect at the following times:     

(i)  
  For Participants who are Retirement Eligible when they separate from service with the Company or a Subsidiary, the rate in effect, on their Election Date, but in no
event earlier than one year before the Participant s retirement date.         

(ii)  
  For Participants who are not Retirement Eligible when they separate from service with the Company or a Subsidiary, the rate in effect 12 months before their
Distribution Date.        4A.7. Power of Committee.      The Committee shall have the discretionary power to make any and all administrative decisions regarding the election and payment of an Alternative Distribution, including but not limited to, (i) the
design and format of request forms, (ii) the approval or rejection of requests for an Alternative Distribution, (iii) the design and format of revocation forms and (iv) the sending of notices.   
  Article 5. Unfunded Plan.      The Plan is
completely unfunded. This Plan is entirely separate from the Retirement Plan and any other plan. Participation in this Plan gives a Participant no right to any funds or assets of the Retirement Plan, or any other plan. The fact that contracts or
certificates may be distributed to recipients of benefits under the Retirement Plan in discharge of obligations thereunder shall in no way entitle a Participant in this Plan to receive any such contract or certificate in discharge of obligations
under this Plan.   
         24   

Article 6. Non-transferability of Participant s Interest   
  No Participant shall have any power or right to transfer, assign, mortgage, commute or otherwise encumber any of the benefits payable hereunder, nor shall
such benefits be subject to seizure for the payment of any debts or judgments, or be transferable by operation of law in the event of bankruptcy, insolvency or otherwise.      Article 7. Effect of Taxes      In making payments under this Plan, the Company and the Subsidiary
shall withhold any Federal, state or local income, employment or other taxes, it determines that it is legally obligated to withhold. All tax liabilities arising out of benefits under this Plan are the sole obligation of the Plan Participant(s) or
their beneficiary. In the event that a Participant or beneficiary incurs greater tax burdens from payments under this plan (whether income, employment, estate or other tax burdens) than they would if such payments had been made from the Retirement
Plan, the Company and the Subsidiary shall have no obligation to reimburse the Participant or beneficiary for such greater tax burdens.   
  Article 8. Change of Control      8.1. Definitions.

(a)  
  Change of Control. For the purposes of this Plan, a  Change of Control  shall be deemed to have occurred if:     

(i)  
  any Person acquires  beneficial ownership  (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange
Act )), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Corporation representing 25% or more of the combined Voting Power of the Corporation s securities;     

(ii)  
  within any 24-month period, the persons who were directors of the Corporation at the beginning of such period (the  Incumbent Directors ) shall cease to
constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the  Board ) or the board of directors of any successor to the Corporation; provided, however, that any director elected or nominated for election to the Board by
a majority of the Incumbent Directors then still in office shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director for purposes of this Section 8.1(a)(ii);         

(iii)  
    the stockholders of the Corporation approve a merger, consolidation, share exchange, division, sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of
the assets of the Corporation which is consummated (a  Corporate Event ), and immediately following the consummation of which the stockholders of the Corporation immediately prior to such Corporate Event do not hold, directly or
     
         25   

indirectly, a majority of the Voting Power of (A) in the case of a merger or consolidation, the surviving or resulting corporation, (B) in the case of a share exchange, the acquiring
corporation, or (C) in the case of a division or a sale or other disposition of assets, each surviving, resulting or acquiring corporation which, immediately following the relevant Corporate Event, holds more than 25% of the consolidated assets
of the Corporation immediately prior to such Corporate Event; or any other event occurs which the Board declares to be a Change of Control.         

(b)  
  Corporation. For the Purposes of this Article,  Corporation  means MetLife, Inc.     

(c)  
  Person. For purposes of the definition of Change of Control,  Person  shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange
Act, as supplemented by Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, and shall include any group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b) under the Exchange Act); provided, however, that  Person  shall not include (A) the Corporation or any
Affiliate, (B) the MetLife Policyholder Trust (or any person(s) who would otherwise be described herein solely by reason of having the power to control the voting of the shares held by that trust), or (C) any employee benefit plan
(including an employee stock ownership plan) sponsored by the Corporation, Company or any Affiliate.         

(d)  
  Voting Power. For purposes of the definition of Change of Control,  Voting Power  shall mean such number of Voting Securities as shall enable the holders
thereof to cast all the votes which could be cast in an annual election of directors of a company, and  Voting Securities  shall mean all securities entitling the holders thereof to vote in an annual election of directors of a company.

(e)  
  Affiliate. For the purposes of this article, an  Affiliate  shall mean any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust or other entity which
directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, the Corporation.         

(f)  
  Cause. For the purposes of this article,  Cause  means either:         

(i)  
  Participant s conviction or plea of nolo contendere to a felony, or         

(ii)  
  any act or acts of dishonesty or gross misconduct on the Participant s part which results or is intended to result in material damage to the business or reputation
of MetLife.         

(g)  
  Good Reason. For the purposes of this article,  Good Reason  means any of:     

(i)  
  any reduction by the Corporation or an Affiliate in the Participant s base salary rate below the rate in effect immediately before the Change of Control;

(ii)  
    any relocation by the Corporation or an Affiliate of the Participant s usual base work location to any other office or location more than 50 miles
from      
         26   

the Participant s usual base work location immediately prior to a Change of Control, except for travel reasonably required in the performance of the Participant s responsibilities;

(iii)  
  if the Participant is a party to an Employment Continuation Agreement with the Corporation or an Affiliate, any circumstance or occurrence constituting  Good
Reason  under that Employment Continuation Agreement;         

(iv)  
  the failure of the Corporation or an Affiliate to pay the Employee s base salary or employee benefits as required by law.     
  8.2. Vesting and Other Rights on and After a Change of Control Subject to Conditions      In the event that:       

(a)  
  there is a Change of Control as defined in Section 8.1(a) of this Article, and,     

(b)  
  on the date of the Change of Control or on a date before the second anniversary of the Change of Control, a Participant in this Plan:     

(i)  
  is involuntarily terminated from employment by the Corporation or any Affiliate (other than directly in connection with a transfer of employment to or from the
Corporation or any Affiliate) without Cause,         

(ii)  
  voluntarily terminates employment with the Corporation or any Affiliate for Good Reason,        then the Participant s unvested benefits and rights accrued as of the Change of Control in each, the Retirement Plan and this Plan, will vest immediately under this Plan, notwithstanding any other
provision of the Retirement Plan or this Plan, or any amendment or termination of this Plan taking place on or after a Change of Control.   
  These accrued benefits will be paid under this Plan according to the ordinary distribution rules of this Plan. The ordinary distribution rules of this
Plan are described in Article 4 and where applicable, Article 4A as they existed immediately prior to the Change of Control. If this Section 8.2 is triggered, a Participant under Section 2.2 does not have to obtain Committee approval for
an Alternate Distribution in the form of a Single Sum or Installment Payments for a Specific Period.      Article 9. Interpretation of the Plan
     The Committee is empowered to take all actions it deems appropriate in administering this Plan. Claims for benefits and appeals of denied
claims under the Plan shall be administered in accordance with Section 503 of ERISA, the regulations thereunder (and any other law that amends, supplements or supersedes said Section of ERISA), and the procedures adopted by the Committee, or
its delegate, as appropriate. The claims procedures referenced above are incorporated herein by reference. The Plan shall provide adequate notice to any claimant whose claim for benefits under the Plan has been denied, setting forth the reasons for
such denial, and afford a reasonable opportunity to   
         27   

such claimant for a full and fair review by the appropriate administrator of the decision denying the claim. Benefits will be paid under the Plan only if the Committee, or its delegate,
determines in its discretion that the applicant is entitled to them.      In the event of a difference of opinion between a Participant and the
Committee with respect to the meaning or application of the provisions of the Plan, the Committee s final interpretation shall be binding and conclusive. However, once a Change of Control (as defined in Article 8) has occurred, this Article 9
shall no longer apply to differences of opinion between the Committee and a Participant regarding the application of Article 8 of this Plan to a Participant or with regard to any rights or benefits protected under Article 8 of this Plan or otherwise
accrued prior to the Change of Control including the vesting thereof.      Article 10. Governing Law   
  To the extent not inconsistent with Federal law, the validity of the Plan and its provisions shall be construed according to the laws of the State of New
York.      Article 11. Amendment and Termination of Plan      11.1. Except to the extent required by law, the Committee may amend or terminate this Plan at any time without the consent of any Participant or of any other person. However, any such amendment or
termination will not adversely affect the benefit entitlements of:       

(a)  
  any Participant receiving benefits under the Plan at or prior to the time of such amendment or termination, or,     

(b)  
  any employee who is a Participant in the Retirement Plan to the extent of the present value of their accrued benefit under this Plan prior to the time of such amendment
or termination. However, amendments may be made to all other aspects of this Plan including, but not limited to:         

(i)  
  amendments impacting the timing under which the Participant s entire accrued benefit is paid, or,     

(ii)  
  amendments impacting the optional forms of benefit available for payment of the Participant s entire accrued benefit.     
  Notwithstanding the above, any amendment or group of amendments made effective on the same date, which would increase or decrease the annual cost of Plan
benefits for active Plan Participants and former Plan Participants by ten million dollars or more in the aggregate, as determined in good faith by the Committee, shall take effect only after the action is authorized or ratified by the Board of
Directors of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.   
         28   

11.2.       

(a)  
  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 11.1 above, or any other provision of this plan, on or after a Change of Control (as defined in Article 8), amendments
can no longer be made to Article 8, Article 9 or Section 11.2 of Article 11 of this Plan; and         

(b)  
  Participants who:         

(i)  
  accrued rights or benefits under this Plan prior to a Change of Control (as defined in Article 8), and,     

(ii)  
  whose rights or benefits are not vested at the time of the Change of Control        cannot have the vesting schedule, applicable on the day prior to the Change of Control, amended with regard to such rights or benefits, and cannot forfeit, or be deprived of, their right to vest in these
accrued benefits due to any amendment or termination of this Plan.       

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY   

Date  
     
  August 7, 2006  

By  
     
    /s/ Margery Brittain   

29   

Appendix A.      List of Additional Individuals Covered Under This Plan.      The following additional individuals,
who were covered under this Plan as of January 1, 1995, are grandfathered as Participants under Section 2.2 of this Plan:      Anthony E.
Amodeo      Oliver N. Greeves      Sibyl C.
Jacobson      William D. Kerrigan      Alan
E. Lazarescu      Felix Schirripa   
  Anthony F. Trani   
         30   

</EX-10.80>

<EX-10.81>
 26
 d302570dex1081.htm
 METLIFE AUXILIARY PENSION PLAN

MetLife Auxiliary Pension Plan 

Exhibit 10.81         METLIFE AUXILIARY PENSION PLAN        Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
( Company ) hereby amends and restates the Part I of the MetLife Auxiliary Pension Plan ( Plan ) effective January 1,2007.       Part I       Part I of this Plan document contains the provisions of the Plan
that govern 409A Benefits as defined in Article 4.1(a) of Part I. All references to  409A  or  Section 409A  in this Plan are references to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations there under.
     Article 1.  Purpose of Plan .   
  The purpose of the Plan is to provide to certain participants employed by the Company, other employers (each an  Employer ) participating under
the Metropolitan Life Retirement Plan for United States Employees ( Retirement Plan ) and his/her beneficiaries, the excess amount that would have been payable under the Retirement Plan in the absence of the limitations under
(i) section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as amended) ( Internal Revenue Code ), (ii) section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code, or such lesser limit as in effect under the Retirement Plan and (iii) section
1.415-2(d)(2) of the Income tax Regulations, that excludes compensation deferred under the Company s or an Employer s deferred compensation arrangements.      Except for terms defined in this Plan, all capitalized terms used in this Plan shall have the same definition and meaning assigned to those terms under the Retirement Plan.   
  Article 2.  Participation        A Participant
in the Plan is any Employee that is eligible under Section 2.1, 2.2 or 2.3 below:       

2.1.  
  An Employer or Company Employee participating in the Retirement Plan:         

(a)  
  whose Retirement Plan benefits are reduced because of the application of Section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code (or such lesser limit as in effect under
the Retirement Plan), or,         

(b)  
  whose Retirement Plan benefits are reduced because of the application of section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code, including Treasury Regulation 1.415-2.
       shall be eligible to participate in the Plan as stated in all Articles except Section 4.2 of Article 4 and Article 4A.
  
         1   

2.2.  PRA/PLS Benefit .  PRA/PLS Benefit  means a benefit that is either a Personal
Retirement Account benefit or a Performance Pension Account benefit under the Retirement Plan. Likewise, any benefit referred to as a  non PRA/PLS Benefit  or  not a PRA/PLS Benefit  refers to benefits under the Retirement Plan
that are not PRA/PLS Benefits.      An Employer or Company Employee with a benefit that is not a PRA/PLS Benefit participating in the Retirement
Plan who:       

(a)  
  is in a compensation grade of 36 or higher (or an equivalent compensation grade), or,     

(b)  
  is a member of the Chairman s Council for 3 consecutive years, or,         

(c)  
  is listed in Appendix A, or,         

(d)  
  has been inducted into the Sales Representative Hall of Fame and has attained the age of 65        shall be eligible to participate in the Plan as stated in all Articles.      If an Employee is an
eligible Participant in the Plan under Section 2.1 of this Article, and on or after January 1, 1995, he/she qualifies as a Participant under Section 2.2 of this Article, then the portion of his/her benefit that is not a PRA/PLS
Benefit that has accrued to that Employee shall be determined and payable as if the Employee was always eligible under Section 2.2 of this Article. If, after qualifying as a Participant under Section 2.2 of this Article, an
individual s compensation grade drops below level 36 (or its equivalent), or the individual ceases to qualify for the Chairman s Council, then that individual shall continue to be treated as if he or she meets the requirements of
Section 2.2 of this Article.      2.3. An Employer or Company Employee participating in the Retirement Plan:   

(a) (i)  
  who participated and accrued benefits in either of the following plans.:     
      The New England Life Insurance Company Select Employee s Supplemental Retirement Plan, or  
        New England Life Insurance Company Supplemental Retirement Plan, and,   

(ii)  
  who, on December 31, 2000, was actively employed by New England Life Insurance Company, the Company or an Employer,     
  shall be eligible, on January 1, 2001, to participate in this Plan, except Section 4.2 of Article 4 and Article 4A. These individuals shall
have his/her entire auxiliary defined benefit as defined in Article 4.2 (and including amounts previously accrued under the New England plans named above) paid under this Plan, in accordance with the terms of this Plan. These individuals shall be
eligible to participate in this Plan as stated in   
         2   

Section 4.2 of Article 4 and Article 4A if they qualify as a Participant under Section 2.2 of this
Article after December 31, 2000.       

(b) (i)  
  who participated and accrued benefits in the GenAmerica Corporation Augmented Benefit Plan, (only insofar as it relates to benefits on compensation that exceeded the
limits imposed by or upon the GenAmerica Corporation Performance Pension Plan and Trust.) and,         

(ii)  
  who, on December 31, 2002, was actively employed by General American Life Insurance Company, the Company or an Employer,     
  shall be eligible, on January 1, 2003, to participate in this Plan, except Section 4.2 of Article 4 and Article 4A. These individuals shall
have his/her entire auxiliary defined benefit as defined in Section 4.2 (and including amounts previously accrued under the Augmented Benefit Plan) paid under this Plan, in accordance with the terms of this Plan. These individuals shall be
eligible to participate in Section 4.2 of Article 4 and Article 4A of this Plan if they qualify as a Participant under Section 2.2 of this Article after December 31, 2002.      Article 3.  Vesting        Participants will vest in their accrued benefit, described in Article
4.2, under this Plan in accordance with the vesting schedule under the Retirement Plan.      All benefits accrued by Participants under this Plan,
prior to a Change of Control as defined in Article 8, shall vest if the Participant satisfies the vesting schedule that existed under the Retirement Plan immediately prior to the Change of Control.   
  Article 4.  Payment of Benefits        4.1.
Definitions.       

(a)  
   409A Benefits .  409A Benefits  For individuals who are eligible under Section 2.2 on or before December 31, 2006,  409A Benefits 
means the portion of a Participant s vested benefit that accrues after December 31, 2004. For all other Participants in the Plan  409A Benefits  means his/her entire accrued benefit payable under this Plan.

(b)  
   Grandfathered Benefits .  Grandfathered Benefits  means the portion of a Participant s benefit vested and accrued prior to January 1, 2005
plus any other increases or amounts that can be included in the grandfathered benefit under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and the regulations there under. Only individuals who:     

(ii)  
  are described in Section 4.7(c) and (d) of the Plan, or     
         3   

(iii)  
  terminated on or before December 31, 2004 with a vested benefit that is not a PRA/PLS Benefit     
  will have  Grandfathered Benefits  under this Plan.      4.2. Benefits under this Plan shall be payable to a Participant in an amount equal to the difference, as determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion, between (a) and (b) below:

(a)   
  the largest amount (without duplication of amount) that would have been payable to the Participant under the Retirement Plan, had the Retirement Plan not been subject
to the limitations of Internal Revenue Code Sections: (i) 415, (ii) 401(a)(17) or such lesser limit as stated in the Retirement Plan, and (iii) Regulation Section 1. 415-2(d)(2) (with respect to deferred compensation
arrangements); and,         

(b)  
  the amount of benefits payable under the Retirement Plan and any predecessor auxiliary plan.        4.3.  Distribution of 409A Benefits        Participants who have an election on file that
complies with 409A, as determined by the Plan Administrator, and specifies the time and form for distribution of benefits, will have that election govern payment. If a Participant does not have an election on file that complies with 409A, then
benefits commencing during 2006 will continue to follow, in time and form, the Participant s distributions under the Retirement Plan. With regard to benefits commencing after December 31, 2006, the time/form of payment for the
Participant s 409A Benefits will be as specified below:       

(a)  
  PRA/PLS Benefits will be paid in a lump sum as soon as administratively possible after separation from service.     

(b)  
  Benefits that are not PRA/PLS Benefits will be paid in the following annuity forms commencing at the later of separation from service or attainment of Retirement
eligibility:         

(i)  
  Participants who are not married at the time distributions commence will receive a life annuity with a 5 year term certain.     

(ii)  
  Participants who are married at the time distributions commence will receive a 50% contingent survivor annuity, with the spouse of the Participant as the survivor
annuitant.         

(c)  
  PRA/PLS Benefits for Participants who terminated on or before December 31, 2006, will be paid in a lump sum as soon as administratively possible after
December 31, 2006.     
         4   

(d)  
  Participants with benefits that are not PRA/PLS Benefits, who separated from service and have reached the earliest date they are eleigible for a distribution from the
Retirement Plan as of December 31, 2006, will have benefits paid to him/her in the appropriate annuity form specified in (b)(i) or (ii) above, commencing as soon as administratively possible after December 31, 2006.

(e)  
  Alternate payees receiving benefits under the Plan through a Qualified Domestic Relations Order ( QDRO ) as defined under section 414 (p) of the Internal
Revenue Code, will receive benefits in the time and form specified in the QDRO. At the discretion of the Plan Administrator, certain alternate payees with a QDRO that does not specify the time or the form of their benefit payments may be provided
the opportunity, during 2006 and 2007, to elect the time and/or form for payment of their benefits under the Plan. In the absence of an election filed by the alternate payee or a specified time for payment in the QDRO the alternate payee will have
benefits paid to them at the same time as benefits are paid under this Plan to the Participant from whom his/her interest in the Plan arose. In the absence of an election filed by the alternate payee or a specified form of payment in the QDRO, the
alternate payee will have benefits paid to them under either (i), (ii) or (iii) below:         

(i)  
  For alternate payees whose interest arose from a Participant who was a Participant under Article 2.2 of the Plan the alternate payee s form of benefit will be the
same form payable to the Participant under the Plan,         

(ii)  
  For alternate payees whose interest arose from a Participant with a PRA/PLS Benefit under the Plan, the alternate payee s form of benefit will be a lump sum
payment as soon as administratively possible after the Participant s separation from service,         

(iii)  
  For alternate payees whose interest arose from a Participant who was not a Participant under Article 2.2 of the Plan and who had a benefit that was not a PRA/PLS
Benefit, the alternate payee will receive his/her benefit in the form of a life annuity with a 5 year term certain.        In no event
will benefits be distributed under a QDRO at any time or in any form not allowed, in the sole discretion of the Plan Administrator, under the Plan or under the laws governing this Plan. Alternate payees have the status of beneficiaries under this
Plan.      4.4 Notwithstanding the default forms of payment listed in Article 4.3 above:   

(a)  
  the Company intends all forms of payment to be treated as a single payment and Participants with benefits other than PRA/PLS Benefits will be able to elect, in
accordance with Internal Revenue Code Section 409A, as determined by the Plan Administrator, among actuarially equivalent annuity forms of benefit any time prior to the payment commencement date for such benefit.     
         5   

(b)  
  any Participant identified as a Key Employee as that term is defined under 409A, and, whose benefit is payable due to separation from service or Retirement shall not
have his/her 409A Benefits commence under this Plan in any form until six months have elapsed since his/her separation or Retirement. The determination of who is a Key Employee will be based on taxable compensation paid during the 12-month period
ending August 31st of the calendar year immediately preceding the year of the distribution.        4.5 Minimum Distribution.
Through December 31, 2007, Participants subject to minimum distribution of their Retirement Plan benefit under Code Section 401(a)(9), and the regulations thereunder, will have their Auxiliary Pension Plan benefits taken into account in
calculating their total minimum distributions, and will have their Auxiliary Pension Plan benefits follow, in time and form of payment, the minimum distributions made under the Retirement Plan.   
  4.6 Only for those individuals who are eligible under Article 2.2, Final Average Compensation used to determine the largest amount that would have been
payable under Article 4.2(a) above, will be based on the following rules, notwithstanding the actual provisions of the Retirement Plan.      For
an eligible Participant that is not a Commissioned Employee under the Retirement Plan, Final Average Compensation will be the sum of (a) and (b) below:       

(a)  
  The base salary component of the Participant s Final Average Compensation is determined using the average of the Participant s base salary for the 60 highest
consecutive months during the 120 months preceding the Participant s date of Retirement or termination, and,         

(b)  
  The component of the Participant s Final Average Compensation representing the MetLife Annual Variable Incentive Compensation Plan or successor annual cash bonus
plan or program ( AVIP ) award will be determined using the average of the Participant s highest 5 AVIP payments (not necessarily consecutive) with respect to the 10 calendar years preceding such Participant s date of Retirement
or termination (including any projected payment(s) to be made beyond the Participant s date of Retirement or termination).     
  The AVIP award, as set forth in subsection (b) immediately above, projected to be made beyond the Participant s date of Retirement or
termination will be deemed equal to the result of the following calculation, as determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion:       

(i)  
  the highest of the last 3 bonuses/awards paid while the Participant was in active Company service multiplied by     

(ii)  
  a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months (or part thereof) that the Participant was actively employed in the calendar year(s) for which the
bonus/award would be payable and the denominator of which is 12.     
         6   

(iii)  
  If the fraction determined under (ii) immediately above, is less than 1, then, the fractional amount determined under (ii) shall replace an equivalent
fractional amount in the lowest of the 5 highest AVIP payments used in (b) above. This replacement shall occur only if the fractional amount determined under (ii) is greater than the fractional amount it is replacing in the lowest of the 5
highest AVIP payments.        Notwithstanding (b)(i), (ii) and (iii), if a specific amount of bonus/award was already approved
under the AVIP, prior to the Participant s date of Retirement or termination, such amount shall be used instead of the deemed estimate, and such amount shall also be taken into account in determining the highest of the Participant s last 3
bonuses/awards with regard to any bonus/award payable for the Participant s year of Retirement or termination.      If, at the time of
Retirement or termination, fewer than 5 AVIP payments have been made to a Participant, then the AVIP component of Final Average Compensation shall be the average of: all AVIP payments actually made to the Participant and the projected payment
(described above) for the year of Retirement or termination.      For eligible Participants that are compensated on a commission basis, Final
Average Compensation will be the amount described in appropriate provisions of the Retirement Plan.      4.7 Except as described in
(a) through (e) immediately below, Grandfathered Benefits shall be payable in the same form(s) and at the same times as benefits are payable under the Retirement Plan.   

(a)  
  Alternative Distributions of the benefit under Article 4A shall be paid in the form, and at the time stated in the election form completed by the Participant and
approved by the Committee.         

(b)  
  Pre-Distribution Death Benefits as described in Article 4A.5 shall be paid in accordance with the terms of that Article.     

(c)  
  Individuals who:         

(i)  
  had accrued benefits under the New England Life Insurance Company s non-qualified Plans listed in Section 2.3,     

(iii)  
  did not become Employees of the Company or an Employer upon that termination of employment,        will have his/her benefits paid from this Plan in the amounts, at the times and in the form provided for under the provisions of those prior plans.   
         7   

(d)   
  Individuals who:         

(i)  
  had accrued benefits under the GenAmerica Corporation Augmented Benefit Plan,     

(iii)  
  did not become Employees of the Company or an Employer upon that termination of employment,        will have his/her entire auxiliary defined benefit paid from this Plan in the amounts, at the times, and in the form provided for under the provisions of that prior plan.   
  (e) Individuals described in Section 2.3 shall have his/her entire auxiliary defined benefit (including amounts previously accrued under the plans
named in Section 2.3) paid under this Plan, in accordance with the terms of this Plan.      4.8 Notwithstanding any provision to the
contrary, the payment of benefits under this Plan shall not be effected by, or be subject to, the qualified pre-retirement survivor annuity and qualified joint and survivor annuity rules under the Retirement Equity Act of 1984.   
  Payment of benefits under this Plan will not be effected by, or be subject to, minimum distributions as described under Section 401(a)(9) of the
Internal Revenue Code and the accompanying Regulations under that Section.      Article 4A.  Alternative Distribution     
  Alternative forms of distribution are available to those individuals who are eligible Participants under Section 2.2 herein on or before
December 31, 2006. The ability to elect an Alternative form of distribution may, in the discretion of the Plan Administrator, be granted to Participants who do not qualify under Section 2.2 of the Plan, but who, as of December 31,
2006, have a PRA benefit and meet any of the requirements in (a) through (d) of Section 2.2 of the Plan. Alternative forms of distribution may be elected by eligible Participants on or before December 31, 2007 and may apply to
his/her 409A benefit as allowed under the transition relief provided under 409A. After December 31, 2007, alternative forms of distribution can only be elected by eligible Participants under Section 2.2 herein for his/her Grandfathered
Benefits.      4A.1 Definitions       

(a)  
   Alternative Distribution .  Alternative Distribution  means one of the following modes of payment:     

(i)  
   Single Sum : Payment in a single sum.         

(ii)  
   Installment Payments for a Specific Period:  Monthly or annual payments are made to the Participant for a specified number of years selected (not exceeding 20
years). If the Participant dies before the expiration of the specified period, installment payments will continue to be made for the remainder of the period chosen by the Participant to a beneficiary designated by the Participant.
    
         8   

(iii)  
   Other Distribution : Any other form of payment that is mutually agreed upon by the Participant and the Committee.     

(b)  
   Committee .  Committee  means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company. The Committee, or either component thereof, may
delegate any of its powers or authority under this Plan in any manner consistent with law.         

(c)  
   Election Date .  Election Date  means the date on which the Participant files his/her request for an Alternative Distribution. For Participants who are
Retirement eligible when they separate from service with the Company or an Employer, this date can be no later than the day before the Participant s Retirement or termination date. For Participants who are not Retirement eligible when they
separate from service with the Company or an Employer, this date can be no later than 12 months before the Distribution Date.         

(d)  
   Distribution Date .  Distribution Date  means the date distributions commence under the mode of payment elected by the Participant. For Participants who
are Retirement eligible when they separate from service with the Company or an Employer, this date cannot be earlier than the Participant s Retirement or termination date. For Participants who are not Retirement eligible when they separate from
service with the Company or an Employer, this date cannot be earlier than the later of:         

(i)  
  12 months following the Participant s Election Date, and         

(ii)  
  the earliest date the Participant becomes eligible for a distribution from the Retirement Plan.        4A.2.  Payment in the Form of an Alternative Distribution .      In order to receive an
Alternative Distribution: (i) a request form must be duly filed by the Participant in compliance with both the provisions of this Article 4A and the procedures as set forth from time to time by the Committee, (ii) consent thereto must be
given by the Committee, and (iii) payment in the form of an Alternative Distribution must be made pursuant to a request form that satisfies 409A and the regulations there under.   
         9   

4A.3.  Election of Alternative Distribution .      A form requesting that Grandfathered Benefits under this Plan be paid in the form of an Alternative Distribution must be submitted by the Participant to the Committee no later than the day before the
Participant s Retirement date. For Participants who are separating from service with the Company or an Employer before they are Retirement eligible, the form requesting an Alternative Distribution must be submitted by the Participant to the
Committee no later than 12 months before the Distribution Date indicated on the election form. All requests must be in writing, signed by the Participant, and follow the format prescribed by the Committee. On the request form the Participant must
also designate (i) the mode of payment requested and (ii) the Participant s Retirement or Distribution Date. A request form shall be deemed submitted by the Participant to the Committee on the day that such form is received by the
Committee. Prior to the Participant s Retirement date, the request form can be revoked by the Participant. Any revocation must be in writing and comply with the procedures of the Committee. A request form submitted by the Participant shall
become irrevocable and binding as to all elections and designations made by the Participant as of the Retirement date. In the event that a Participant s request form is not filed before his/her Retirement date, the Participant s Plan
benefits will be paid in the same form as the benefits paid to the Participant under the Retirement Plan. For Participants who separate from service before they are Retirement eligible, the request form shall become irrevocable and binding, as to
all elections and designations, 12 months before the Distribution Date.      4A.4.  Consent of the Committee.     
  Payment in the form of an Alternative Distribution shall require the consent of the Committee. The Committee shall have full and complete discretion to
approve or reject any request for an Alternative Distribution. The decision of the Committee on the Participant s request form shall be made known to the Participant in writing.      4A.5.  Death of Participant Before Distribution Date .       

(a)  
  A Participant under Section 2.2, who accrued Plan benefits other than PRA/PLS Benefits before death, shall have 50% of the present value of his/her undistributed
non PRA/PLS Benefit, (valued as a single sum under Section 4A.6(a) below and actuarially adjusted for payment at the Participant s earliest Retirement date or the day prior to death, if the Participant was Retirement eligible at death),
paid to his/her designated beneficiary. This pre-distribution death benefit will be payable in the form designated by the Participant and approved by the Committee.     
  A Participant may file with the Committee a form (which will become irrevocable only upon death) designating a beneficiary or changing
his/her existing designation. This form will also allow the Participant to choose the form in which the pre-distribution death benefit will be paid. All optional forms of benefit available to the Participant under this Plan and the Retirement Plan
will be available for payment of this death benefit.       

(b)  
  For salaried Participants covered under Section 2.2, a single sum, equivalent to the full value of a Participant s undistributed non PRA/PLS Benefit on the
date of the Participant s death, (valued under Section 4A.6(a)), shall be paid to the Participant s designated beneficiary if:     
         10   

(i)  
  the Participant notifies the Committee in a request form in effect on the Election Date of his or her anticipated Retirement date,     

(ii)  
  the Committee gives its consent to the payment of a Single Sum or Installment Payments for a Specific Period before the Distribution Date is reached,

(iii)  
  the Participant agrees to defer Retirement at the Company s written request,     

(iv)  
  the Distribution Date for payment of the Single Sum or Installment Payments for a Specific Period is deferred to the Participant s Retirement date, and

(v)  
  the Participant dies after such anticipated Retirement date but before Retirement.        In the absence of a designation by the Participant, the death benefit, under (a) or (b) immediately above, shall be paid to the Participant s surviving spouse in a single sum. If the
Participant has no surviving spouse at the time of death, then the death benefit shall be paid to the Participant s estate.      4A.6.
 Valuation of Alternative Benefit         

(a)   
  The actuarial equivalent value of the Single Sum shall be determined using the UP 84 Mortality Table, set forward one year for the Participant and set back four years
for the Participant s spouse, (if applicable). If the Participant is Retirement eligible at separation from service, then the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation immediate interest rate ( PBGC Rate ) used to calculate the Single Sum
shall be the lowest rate in effect in the 12 months prior to the Participant s actual Retirement date If the Participant was not Retirement eligible on December 31, 2004, then the PBGC Rate used to calculate the Single Sum shall be the
rate in effect in the month prior to the later of:         

(i)  
  the Participant s earliest Retirement date or         

(ii)  
  the Participant s actual Retirement date.         

(b)   
  The actuarial equivalent benefit amount for the Installment Payments for a Specific Period will be determined by converting the Single Sum benefit amount, determined
under Article 4A.6(a). The interest rate basis for the immediate annuity purchase rates offered under the Metropolitan Savings and Investment Plan ( SIP Rate ) and its successors utilized in the calculation of installment payments will be
as follows:         

(i)  
   If the Participant was Retirement eligible on December 31, 2004, the SIP Rate is the highest rate in the month that had the lowest PBGC Rate out of the12
months prior to the Participant s actual Retirement date.         

(ii)  
  If the Participant was not on December 31, 2004, the SIP Rate is the rate in effect on the last day of the month prior to the later of:     

a.  
  the Participant s earliest Retirement date, or         

b.  
  the Participant s actual Retirement date.     
         11   

4A.7.  Interest on Deferred Installments        Individuals who elect deferred installment payments under the terms of this Article 4A, shall receive interest from the date they separate from service to the date that the installment payments commence.
Interest will be calculated based on the entire amount that the Participant has elected to receive as deferred installments under Article 4A. Interest will be credited using the SIP Rate in effect on the Election Date and will be compounded annually
from the date of separation from service to the date payments commence. The interest accrued prior to payment commencement will be added to the accrued Plan benefit to produce a total benefit amount. This total benefit amount will be credited with
the SIP Rate for the duration of the payment(s) and divided by the number of installment payments due under the Participant s election to produce uniform payments under the Plan. This interest will be part of the Participant s 409A Benefit
and will be paid in accordance with 409A.      4A.8.  Power of Committee.        The Committee shall have the discretionary power to make any and all administrative decisions regarding the election and payment of an Alternative Distribution, including but not limited to, (i) the
design and format of request forms, (ii) the approval or rejection of requests for an Alternative Distribution, (iii) the design and format of revocation forms and (iv) the sending of notices.   
  Article 5.  Unfunded Plan .      The Plan is
completely unfunded. Except as obligations under this Plan have been undertaken pursuant to plans or other arrangements offered by another company, obligations under this Plan are obligations of the Company. All obligations under this Plan are
entirely separate from the Retirement Plan and any other plan. Participation in this Plan gives a Participant no right to any funds or assets of the Retirement Plan, or any other plan. The fact that contracts or certificates may be distributed to
recipients of benefits under the Retirement Plan in discharge of obligations thereunder shall in no way entitle a Participant in this Plan to receive any such contract or certificate in discharge of obligations under this Plan.   
  Article 6.  Non-transferability of Participant s Interest        No Participant shall have any power or right to transfer, assign, mortgage, commute or otherwise encumber any of the Plan benefits payable hereunder, nor shall such benefits be subject to seizure for the
payment of any debts or judgments, or be transferable by operation of law in the event of bankruptcy, insolvency or otherwise.   
         12   

Article 7.  Effect of Taxes        Payments under this Plan shall be made after withholding of any Federal, state or local income, employment or other taxes, legally obligated to be withheld. All tax liabilities arising out of benefits
under this Plan are the sole obligation of the Plan Participant(s) or his/her beneficiary, including but not limited to, any tax liabilities that may arise under Section 409A. In the event that a Participant or beneficiary incurs greater tax
burdens from payments under this Plan (whether income, employment, estate or other tax burdens) than they would if such payments had been made from the Retirement Plan, neither the Company nor any other person shall have an obligation to reimburse
the Participant or beneficiary for such greater tax burdens.   
         13   

Article 8.  Change of Control        8.1.  Definitions .       

(a)   
   Change of Control . For the purposes of this Plan, a  Change of Control  shall be deemed to have occurred if:     

(i)  
  any Person acquires  beneficial ownership  (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange
Act )), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Corporation representing 25% or more of the combined Voting Power of the Corporation s securities;     

(ii)  
  within any 24-month period, the persons who were directors of the Corporation at the beginning of such period (the  Incumbent Directors ) shall cease to
constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the  Board ) or the board of directors of any successor to the Corporation;  provided ,  however ,  that  any director elected or nominated for
election to the Board by a majority of the Incumbent Directors then still in office shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director for purposes of this Section 8.1(a)(ii);     

(iii)  
  the stockholders of the Corporation approve a merger, consolidation, share exchange, division, sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of
the Corporation which is consummated (a  Corporate Event ), and immediately following the consummation of which the stockholders of the Corporation immediately prior to such Corporate Event do not hold, directly or indirectly, a majority
of the Voting Power of (A) in the case of a merger or consolidation, the surviving or resulting corporation, (B) in the case of a share exchange, the acquiring corporation, or (C) in the case of a division or a sale or other
disposition of assets, each surviving, resulting or acquiring corporation which, immediately following the relevant Corporate Event, holds more than 25% of the consolidated assets of the Corporation immediately prior to such Corporate Event; or

(iv)  
  any other event occurs which the Board declares to be a Change of Control.     

(b)   
   Corporation . For the Purposes of this Article,  Corporation  means MetLife, Inc.     

(c)   
   Person . For purposes of the definition of Change of Control,  Person  shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 3(a)(9) of the
Exchange Act, as supplemented by Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, and shall include any group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b) under the Exchange Act);  provided ,  however ,  that   Person  shall not include
(A) the Corporation or any Affiliate, (B) the MetLife Policyholder Trust (or any person(s) who would otherwise be described herein solely by reason of having the power to control the voting of the shares held by that trust), or
(C) any employee benefit plan (including an employee stock ownership plan) sponsored by the Corporation, Company or any Affiliate.     
         14   

(d)   
   Voting Power . For purposes of the definition of Change of Control,  Voting Power  shall mean such number of Voting Securities as shall enable the
holders thereof to cast all the votes which could be cast in an annual election of directors of a company, and  Voting Securities  shall mean all securities entitling the holders thereof to vote in an annual election of directors of a
company.         

(e)  
   Affiliate . For the purposes of this article, an  Affiliate  shall mean any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust or other entity
which directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, the Corporation.         

(f)   
   Cause . For the purposes of this article,  Cause  means either:     

(i)  
  the Participant s conviction or plea of nolo contendere to a felony, or,     

(ii)  
  any act or acts of dishonesty or gross misconduct on the Participant s part which results or is intended to result in material damage to the business or reputation
of MetLife.         

(g)   
   Good Reason . For the purposes of this article,  Good Reason  means any of:     

(i)  
  any reduction by the Corporation or an Affiliate in the Participant s base salary rate below the rate in effect immediately before the Change of Control;

(ii)  
  any relocation by the Corporation or an Affiliate of the Participant s usual base work location to any other office or location more than 50 miles from the
Participant s usual base work location immediately prior to a Change of Control, or in a state other than the one in which the Participant performed his duties immediately prior to the Change of Control, in each case except for travel
reasonably required in the performance of the Participant s responsibilities;         

(iii)  
  if the Participant is a party to an Employment Continuation Agreement with the Corporation or an Affiliate, any circumstance or occurrence constituting  Good
Reason  under that Employment Continuation Agreement;         

(iv)  
  the failure of the Corporation or an Affiliate to pay the Employee s base salary or employee benefits as required by law.     
  8.2.  Vesting and Other Rights on and After a Change of Control Subject to Conditions       In the event that:       

(a)   
  there is a Change of Control as defined in Section 8.1(a) of this Article, and,     

(b)   
  on the date of the Change of Control or on a date before the second anniversary of the Change of Control, a Participant in this Plan:     
         15   

(i)  
  is involuntarily terminated from employment by the Corporation or any Affiliate (other than directly in connection with a transfer of employment to or from the
Corporation or any Affiliate) without Cause,         

(ii)  
  voluntarily terminates employment with the Corporation or any Affiliate for Good Reason,        then the Participant s unvested benefits and rights accrued as of the Change of Control in each, the Retirement Plan and this Plan, will vest immediately under this Plan, notwithstanding any other
provision of the Retirement Plan or this Plan, or any amendment or termination of this Plan taking place on or after a Change of Control.   
  These accrued benefits will be paid under this Plan according to the ordinary distribution rules of this Plan. The ordinary distribution rules of this
Plan are described in Article 4 and where applicable, Article 4A as they existed immediately prior to the Change of Control. If this Section 8.2 is triggered, a Participant under Section 2.2 does not have to obtain Committee approval for
an Alternate Distribution in the form of a Single Sum or Installment Payments for a Specific Period, to the extent that an Alternative Distribution is available to that Participant under 409A.   
  Article 9.  Interpretation of the Plan         

(a)   
  The Committee is empowered to take all actions it deems appropriate in administering this Plan. Any Committee determination with respect to the meaning or application
of the provisions of the Plan shall be binding and conclusive. Benefits will be paid under this Plan only if the Committee determines in its discretion that the applicant is entitled to them. Once a Change of Control (as defined in Article 8) has
occurred, this subpart (a) of Article 9 shall no longer apply.         

(b)   
  Claims for benefits and appeals of denied claims under the Plan shall be administered in accordance with Section 503 of ERISA, the regulations thereunder (and any
other law that amends, supplements or supersedes said Section of ERISA), and the procedures adopted by the Committee, as appropriate. The claims procedures referenced above are incorporated herein by reference.     
  Article 10.  Governing Law        To the
extent not inconsistent with Federal law, the validity of the Plan and its provisions shall be construed according to the laws of the State of New York.      Article 11.  Amendment and Termination of Plan        11.1. Except to the extent prohibited by
law, the Committee may amend or terminate this Plan at any time without the consent of any Participant or of any other person. However, any such amendment or termination will not adversely affect the benefit entitlements of:   
         16   

(a)  
  any Participant receiving benefits under this Plan at or prior to the time of such amendment or termination, or,     

(b)   
  any Employee who is a Participant in the Retirement Plan to the extent of the present value of his/her accrued benefit under this Plan prior to the time of such
amendment or termination. However, amendments may be made to all other aspects of this Plan consistent with Section 409A, including, but not limited to:     

(i)  
  amendments impacting the timing under which the Participant s entire accrued benefit is paid, or,     

(ii)  
  amendments impacting the optional forms of benefit available for payment of the Participant s entire accrued benefit.     
  Notwithstanding the above, any amendment or group of amendments made effective on the same date, which would increase or decrease the annual cost of Plan
benefits for active Plan Participants and former Plan Participants by ten million dollars or more in the aggregate, as determined in good faith by the Committee, shall be effective only if authorized or ratified by the Board of Directors of the
Company.      11.2.       

(a)   
  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 11.1 above, or any other provision of this Plan, on or after a Change of Control (as defined in Article 8), no amendments
can be made to Article 8, Article 9 or Section 11.2 of Article 11 of this Plan; and         

(b)   
  Participants who:         

(i)  
  accrued rights or benefits under this Plan prior to a Change of Control (as defined in Article 8), and,     

(ii)  
  whose rights or benefits are not vested at the time of the Change of Control        cannot have the vesting schedule under Article 3, applicable on the day prior to the Change of Control, amended with regard to such rights or benefits. The Company may not wrongfully deny Participants the
opportunity to vest in rights or benefits accrued prior to a Change of Control under this Plan.   
   METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY            
  Date December 21, 2006       

By    
  /s/ Margery Brittain     
         17   

</EX-10.81>

<EX-10.88>
 27
 d302570dex1088.htm
 ALICO OVERSEAS PENSION PLAN

Alico Overseas Pension Plan 

Exhibit 10.88        ALICO OVERSEAS PENSION PLAN       January 2009   

ALICO OVERSEAS PENSION PLAN   

1.  DEFINITIONS    

1.01  
   Average Final Compensation  shall mean the average annual Compensation of a Participant during the 3 consecutive years in the last 10 years of his Credited
Service affording the highest such average, or during all of the years of his Credited Service if less than 3 years.         

1.02  
   Board of Directors  shall mean the Board of Directors of American Life Insurance Company, Inc.     

1.03  
   Break in Continuous Service  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.03     

1.04  
  Company  shall mean American Life Insurance Company, Inc. (ALICO) or any successor by merger, purchase or otherwise, with respect to its Employees who are
Participants.         

1.05  
   Compensation  shall mean the regular remuneration paid to an Employee for service rendered to the Company or Participating Company, as applicable, excluding
by way of example and not by way of limitation, any commissions, premium pay, shift differential, foreign service allowance, bonuses and pay for overtime or special pay, and excluding the Company s or Participating Company s cost for any
public or private employee benefit plan including this Plan, under rules uniformly applicable to all Employees similarly situated. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, compensation for personal services rendered in the
United States while a U.S. taxpayer, a resident of the United States or a green card holder, or while a United States citizen shall not be recognized as  Compensation  under the Plan.     

1.06  
   Continuous Service  is used to determine whether a Participant is vested and shall mean all service as an Employee as provided in Article 4, or since last
becoming an Employee in the event his prior service is disregarded pursuant to Section 4.03.         

1.07  
   Credited Service  is used to determine a Participant s benefit and whether a Participant is eligible for Early Retirement and shall mean service
credited under the Plan as provided in Article 3.         

1.08  
   Effective Date  shall mean January 1, 1964. With regard to a person who becomes an Employee by admission of his employer to the Plan on or after
January 1, 1964,  Effective Date  shall mean the date of such admission.     

1.09  
   Employee  shall mean a salaried person who is employed by the Company or a Participating Company who is not eligible for participation in the American
International Group, Inc. Retirement Plan (and would not be eligible upon satisfaction of the American International Group, Inc. Retirement Plan age and service requirements), who is regularly employed on a full time basis by the Company or a
Participating Company outside the United States, and who receives regular stated compensation other than hourly or pension pay. Every person who works for at least 20 hours a week and for at least 6 months a year shall be a full time Employee. The
ALICO Benefit Committee or its designee shall select and approve participation in the Plan among those who are eligible. An Employee who is selected by the ALICO Benefit Committee or its designee cannot be a member or accrue a benefit if he is an
American citizen, green card holder, resident of the United States or a US taxpayer.         

1.10  
   Home Country  shall mean the country in which the Participants is a citizen; provided however, that in the event a Participant is a citizen of more than one
country, the ALICO Benefit Committee, or its designee in its sole discretion, shall determine which county shall be deemed the Participant s Home Country.     

1.11  
     Normal Retirement Date  shall mean the first day of the calendar month coincident with or next following the 65   th    anniversary of an Employee s birth and completion of 5 years of
Plan participation.          

1.12  
   Participant  shall mean any eligible Employee who becomes a Participant in the Plan in accordance with Article 2. Where so indicated in the context,
 Participant  also refers to a person who is no longer accruing Credited Service but who has attained pension eligibility under this Plan at the date he ceased to accrue Credited Service, including a person who is retired and is receiving
or is entitled to receive pension benefits described in this Plan.         

1.13  
   Participating Company  shall mean a company which is participating in the Plan pursuant to Article 7 with respect to its Employees who are Participants.

1.14  
   Plan  shall mean ALICO Overseas Pension Plan.         

1.15  
   ALICO Benefit Committee  shall mean the managing board of the Plan as provided in Article 8.     

1.16  
   Social Security Benefit  shall mean the old age, survivors, retirement and other benefits paid by a governmental system similar to the U.S. Social Security.
However, the term  Social Security Benefit  shall not include benefits payable under the U.S. Social Security System. It shall include benefits provided from any compulsory programs such as the AGIRC and UNIRS systems in France, or the
Canadian Pension Plan/Quebec Pension Plan and the Canadian Old Age Security Act. It shall also include the portion attributable to Company or Participating Company contributions (including interest thereon, if applicable) to mandated plans
including, but not limited to, those in Argentina, Australia, Chile, Hong Kong and Singapore. If the employee has not reached the age on which he would be entitled to receive an unreduced Social Security Benefit on the date he retires, his Social
Security Benefit will be computed assuming he remains in service to age 65 at his last rate of compensation.         

1.17  
   Vesting  shall mean the point in time when an Employee has earned a nonforfeitable benefit under the Plan. An Employee vests in the Plan upon the completion
of five years of Vesting Service.         

1.18  
   Vesting Service  shall mean a Participant s period of Continuous Service while a Participant in the Plan.     

2.  PARTICIPATION    

2.01  
    Each Employee shall become a Participant in the Plan, provided that the ALICO Benefit Committee or its designee has approved such Employee to be a
Participant, as of the first day of the calendar month coincident or following the latest of (i) the date he completes six months of Continuous Service, (ii) the 21   st    anniversary of his birth, (iii) January 1, 1986, or (iv) effective on or after July 1, 2007, the
date of participation designated by the ALICO Benefit Committee or its designee. Notwithstanding the above, an Employee will be a Participant for any period of time he participated while the Plan was contributory prior to January 1, 1986.

2.02  
  An Employee s participation in the Plan shall continue during any period of disability salary continuance, weekly disability income benefits and/or any period
during which the Participant is in receipt of benefits under a long-term disability program sponsored by the Company or a Participating Company or otherwise mandated by law. During any such period, Continuous Service and Credited Service shall
continue to accrue, and the Employee shall be credited with compensation at his rate of compensation immediately prior to commencement of such benefit.         

2.03  
  A non-vested Employee s participation in the Plan shall terminate if he incurs a Break in Continuous Service as defined in Section 4.03. Participation shall
be continued during a period while on leave of absence from service approved by the Company or a Participating Company, but no benefit accruals shall be allowed with respect to such period unless a leave of absence is due to required service in the
Armed Forces in the country of his residence or citizenship, in which event credit may be allowed thereof as provided in Section 3.02.         

2.04  
    Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, any Participant who would otherwise become ineligible to continue his participation in the
Plan because of a transfer to an ineligible position within the Company or a Participating Company or any other employer in which the Company is by the ALICO Benefit Committee deemed to have sufficient interest, shall remain a Participant and all
rights under the Plan shall continue as if all of his service in the employ of such employer subsequent to the date of transfer constituted Continuous Service under the Plan and Credited Service, but only if the Participant had earned five
(5) or more years of Vesting Service prior to becoming ineligible to continue participation in the Plan. The Participant s compensation used in the computation of his Average Final Compensation shall

include such compensation received from such subsequent employer as would have been included had the service been rendered to the Company (except as provided in the last sentence of
Section 1.05); provided such Participant had earned five (5) or more years of Vesting Service prior to becoming ineligible to continue participation in the Plan. In all other cases, if a Participant becomes ineligible to continue
participation in the Plan, such Participant s Continuous Service, Credited Service and Compensation shall cease to be credited under the Plan.         

2.05  
  Each Participant, before any benefit shall be payable to him or on his account under the Plan, shall file with the ALICO Benefit Committee such information as it shall
require to establish his rights and benefits under the Plan.     

3.  CREDITED SERVICE    

3.01  
  Except as provided in Section 2.04, all Continuous Service as an Employee rendered after he becomes a Participant shall be Credited Service under the Plan. In
addition, if the Participant has earned at least five (5) years of Vesting Service, then all service in the employ of the Company (except such Employee s first six months of service) shall be Credited Service except as set forth in the
paragraph immediately below. Service shall also be credited for periods during which Participants are in receipt of long term disability benefits under a program administered by the Company as provided in Section 2.02.     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant (1) who becomes an Employee after December 31, 1990 shall not receive Credited
Service for service rendered prior to his 21st birthday, or (2) who became an Employee after December 31, 1975 and prior to January 1, 1991 shall not receive Credited Service for service rendered prior to his 25th birthday, or (3) who
became an Employee prior to January 1, 1976 shall not receive Credited Service for service rendered prior to his 30th birthday.      Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, Credited Service shall not be credited for a period of employment rendered in the United States while a U.S. taxpayer, a resident of the
United States or a green card holder, or while a citizen of the United States.       

3.02  
  If an Employee shall have been absent from the service of the Company or a Participating Company because of required service in the Armed Forces of the country of his
residence or citizenship and if he shall have returned to the service of the Company or a Participating Company within 90 days either (i) after having become entitled to release from active duty in the Armed Forces of the country of his
residence or citizenship or (ii) after the termination of any hospitalization that commenced prior to discharge and continuing after discharge for a period of not more than one year, such absence shall not count as a break in Continuous
Service. The period of any such absence occurring on or after the Effective Date of the Plan shall, upon direction of the Board of Directors uniformly applicable to all Employees similarly situated, be considered as Continuous Service with the
Company with compensation at the Participant s rate of compensation in effect immediately prior to such absence.     

4.  CONTINUOUS SERVICE    

4.01  
  Except as hereinafter provided or as provided in Section 2.04, all service with the Company and with any corporation or other business entity of the Company
(including a Participating Company), rendered by an Employee, whether as a Participant or otherwise, prior to his retirement shall be Continuous Service for the purposes of the Plan. An Employee s Continuous Service shall be measured in years
and months with each partial month of Continuous Service treated as one full month.         

4.02  
  With respect to a person who was employed by the Company or a Participating Company on January 1, 1986, Continuous Service for service rendered prior to that date
shall be equal to the Continuous Service recognized on his account through that date under the provisions of the Plan as then in effect.         

4.03  
  There shall be a Break in Continuous Service for any period for which an individual is not employed by the Company or a Participating Company except for reasons of
disability or military service. Any service rendered prior to the Break in Continuous Service shall be excluded from the Employee s Continuous Service and Credited Service if the continuous period of separation equals or exceeds the greater of
(i) five (5) years or (ii) the Employee s period of Continuous Service credited under the Plan prior to the commencement of the separation; provided that the Employee was not vested when the period of separation from employment
commenced. In addition, such Employee shall be treated as a new Employee for purposes of determining if he has five (5) years of participation in the Plan. Except as otherwise provided in Section 5.06, in all other cases, the
Employee s period of Credited Service, Continuous Service and Plan participation shall be restored if the Employee is rehired and again becomes a Participant in the Plan.     

4.04  
  If any former Participant is reemployed after incurring a break in Continuous Service, he shall again become a Participant for purposes of the Plan as of the date he
completes a year of Continuous Service. If his prior Credited Service and Continuous Service are restored pursuant to Section 4.03, he shall become a Participant retroactively to his date of rehire. Otherwise, his participation shall be
retroactive to the first of the month following six months of Continuous Service.     

5.  BENEFITS     

(a)  
  A Participant who retires upon reaching his Normal Retirement Date shall receive a normal retirement allowance commencing on his Normal Retirement Date. The normal
retirement allowance for a Participant who is not married shall be equal to the basic retirement allowance computed under Section 5.01(b) in the form of a single life annuity. The normal retirement allowance for a married Participant shall be
the 50% Joint   Survivor Annuity option described in Option 3 of Section 5.07 with the Participant s spouse named as contingent annuitant which is of equivalent actuarial value to the basic retirement allowance for an unmarried
Participant.         

(b)  
  The annual basic retirement allowance shall be equal to (i) less the sum of (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), (vi) and (vii) as follows:     

(i)  
 
  1-   3   /  4  % of the Participant s Average Final Compensation multiplied by the number of his years of Credited Service after January 1, 1966 limited to a total of 40 years, less

(ii)  
    1   3   /  7  % of any Social Security Benefit determined by the ALICO Benefit Committee to be payable to a single person (who is the same gender as the Participant) which the Participant would receive upon proper
application to the appropriate governmental entity multiplied by the number of years of his Credited Service limited to 35 years, less           

(iii)  
  The actuarial equivalent of the portion of any Provident Fund attributable to Company or Participating Company contributions, less     

(iv)  
  An amount of equivalent actuarial value to any termination indemnity or severance allowance that the Company or Participating Company must pay under any applicable law
or labor agreement, not including the American International Group, Inc. Executive Severance Policy or any individually negotiated severance or employment agreement, less     

(v)  
  The actuarial equivalent of the Company s and Participating Company s contributions and earnings thereon to a defined contribution plan whether sponsored by
the Company or a Participating Company or mandated by laws, and less         

(vi)  
  The actuarial equivalent of the amount due a participant from a defined benefit plan sponsored by the Company or a Participating Company.     

(c)  
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon the later of the completion of 5 years of participation in the Plan or the date the Participant is credited with 5 or more years of
Continuous Service outside his Home Country, a Participant will receive a benefit which is the greater of (1) his benefit calculated under the formula set forth in (b) above or (2) a benefit equal to 1.75% of his Average Final
Compensation multiplied by the number of his years of Credited Service earned while participating in the Plan while not accruing a Company or Participating Company funded pension or retirement benefit (including both defined benefit and defined
contribution benefits) under another such plan sponsored by the Company or a Participating Company.        The minimum benefit a Participant will receive is $100 per month (when paid as a single life annuity), proportionately reduced for less than 10 years of Credited Service.   

(d)  
  A Participant who retires after his Normal Retirement Date shall receive a normal retirement allowance commencing on the first day of the month following his
retirement. The amount of such normal retirement allowance shall be equal to the greater of (i) the annual basic retirement allowance computed under Section 5.01(b) or (c) above (whichever is larger), taking into account compensation
and Credited Service after Normal Retirement Date, or (ii) the equivalent actuarial value of the annual normal retirement allowance which would have been payable to the Participant if he had retired on his Normal Retirement Date.

(a)  
    A Participant who has not reached his Normal Retirement Date but who has reached the 55   th    anniversary of his birth while an Employee and has completed 10 years of Credited Service shall be retired from
service on an early retirement allowance on the first day of the calendar month next following receipt by the ALICO Benefit Committee of written application therefore made by the Participant.      

(b)  
  The annual early retirement allowance shall be a deferred allowance commencing on the Participant s Normal Retirement Date and shall be computed as a normal
retirement allowance on the basis of his Average Final Compensation and Credited Service at the time of early retirement (except as hereinafter provided), provided that at the time of retirement, the Participant may elect to receive an early
retirement allowance commencing on his early retirement date or at any time thereafter, but not later than his Normal Retirement Date. In the case of a Participant who was 54 years of age or older on January 1, 2006, the amounts computed under
Sections 5.01(b)(i) and (ii) and the amount computed under Section 5.01(c) shall be reduced by 3% for each year by which such commencement date precedes his Normal Retirement Date. In the case of an individual who was younger than 54 years
of age on January 1, 2006, the amounts computed under Sections 5.01(b)(i) and (ii) and the amount computed under Section 5.01(c) shall be reduced by 5% for each year by which such commencement precedes his Normal Retirement Date,
except that the reduction will be 4% per year if the individual has attained age 60 and 25 years of Credited Service at the time the benefit commences or 3% per year if the individual has attained age 60 and has 30 years of Credited
Service at the time the benefit commences.        Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an
individual who was younger than 54 years of age on January 1, 2006, an early retirement allowance computed as follows shall be payable to the Participant if it is larger than the amount computed in the previous sentence. Such early retirement
allowance shall be computed by replacing the amounts computed under Sections 5.01(b)(i) and (ii) and the amount computed under Section 5.01(c) (reduced in accordance with the foregoing to reflect early commencement) with the sum of the
corresponding amounts computed under (i) and (ii) below:       

(i)  
  The amounts computed under Section 5.01(b)(i) and (ii) and the amount computed under Section 5.01(c) reflecting the Participant s Years of Credited
Service, Average Final Compensation and Social Security Benefit as of December 31, 2005 reduced by 3% for each year by which such commencement date precedes his Normal Retirement Date; and     

(ii)  
  The amounts computed under Section 5.01(b)(i) and (ii) and the amount computed under Section 5.01(c) reflecting the Participant s Years of Credited
Service, Average Final Compensation and Social Security Benefit earned after December 31, 2005 to the Participant s Early Retirement Date reduced by 5% for each year by which such commencement precedes his Normal Retirement Date, except
that the reduction will be 4% per year if the individual has attained age 60 and 25 years of Credited Service at the time the benefit commences or 3% per year if the individual has attained age 60 and has 30 years of Credited Service at
the time the benefit commences.        In computing an amount under Section 5.01(b)(i) under this
(ii), the Participant s Years of Credited Service will not exceed 40 years less the number of Years of Credited Service the Participant had earned as of December 31, 2005. In computing an amount under Section 5.01(b)(ii) under this
(ii), the Participant s Years of Credited Service will not exceed 35 less the number of Years of Credited Service the Participant had earned as of December 31, 2005.   

(c)  
  In the event that the Participant is not eligible to receive a benefit from another Company-sponsored plan or mandated plan but will receive such a benefit upon
attainment of a later age, no offset will be calculated for such benefit until the Participant is eligible to receive such benefit (at which time the offset will be calculated in accordance with Section 5.01(b)).     

5.03  
  Disability Retirement Allowance         

(a)  
  A Participant who has not reached his Normal Retirement Date but who has completed five years of Credited Service shall be retired on a disability retirement allowance
on the first day of a calendar month not less than 30 nor more than 90 days next following receipt by the ALICO Benefit Committee of written application therefore made by the Participant, provided a physician or physicians designated by the ALICO
Benefit Committee shall certify, and the ALICO Benefit Committee shall find, that such Participant is totally incapacitated, mentally or physically, for the further performance of duty, and that such incapacity is likely to be permanent.

A Participant may not retire under this Section 5.03, however, while
in receipt of disability salary continuance, weekly disability income benefits or long term disability benefits under a program sponsored by the Company or a Participating Company or otherwise mandated by law. During any such period, Continuous
Service and Credited Service shall continue to accrue, and the Employee shall be credited with compensation at his rate of compensation immediately prior to commencement of such benefit.   

(b)  
  The disability retirement allowance per annum shall be a retirement allowance computed as a normal retirement allowance on the basis of the Participant s Average
Final Compensation and Credited Service at the time of disability retirement.        The reduction for
Social Security Benefits provided in Section 5.01(b)(ii) shall begin when the Participant first becomes eligible for an unreduced old age or disability insurance benefit under the applicable Social Security law (regardless of whether or when
such benefit actually commences to be paid).      Any amounts which may be paid or payable on account of
disability to a Participant or his dependents as the result of premiums, taxes or contributions paid by the Company or Participating Company under any Workers  Compensation Law or policy or plan similar to Workers  Compensation, whether
self-insured or otherwise, exclusive of fixed payments pursuant to Workers  Compensation or similar policies or plans for the loss of any bodily member, may be offset against and payable in lieu of that part of his disability retirement
allowance provided under the Plan by Company or Participating Company contributions on account of the same disability, in such equitable manner as the ALICO Benefit Committee shall determine.   

(c)  
    Once each year, the ALICO Benefit Committee may require any Participant receiving a disability retirement allowance who has not reached his Normal
Retirement Date to undergo a medical examination by a physician or physicians designated by the ALICO Benefit Committee, such examination to be made at a place mutually agreed upon. Should any such Participant refuse to submit to such medical
examination, the part of his disability retirement allowance provided by Company or Participating Company      

contributions shall be discontinued until his withdrawal of such refusal; and should his refusal continue for a year, all rights in and to the disability retirement allowance shall cease, and the
election of an optional benefit if one has been elected shall be of no further effect, but he shall in any event be entitled to a vested retirement allowance under Section 5.04. If the ALICO Benefit Committee finds from such medical examination
or otherwise that the disability of a Participant receiving a disability retirement allowance who has not reached his Normal Retirement Date has been removed and that he gained his earning capacity, in whole or in part, the part of his disability
retirement allowance provided by Company or Participating Company contributions shall be discontinued or reduced proportionately until he shall reach his normal retirement age provided that he shall be entitled to have his original disability
retirement allowance restored in whole or in part prior to his Normal Retirement Date if, on the basis of a medical examination by a physician or physicians designated by the ALICO Benefit Committee, the ALICO Benefit Committee finds that he has
again lost earning capacity because of the same disability.         

(a)  
  A Participant who has not reached his Normal Retirement Date but who has completed five years of Vesting Services and then separates from service shall, be entitled to
a vested retirement allowance in an amount calculated under Section 5.04(d).         

(b)  
  The vested retirement allowance shall be a deferred allowance commencing on the Participant s Normal Retirement Date and shall be computed as a normal retirement
allowance on the basis of his Average Final Compensation and Credited Service at the time of termination.         

(c)  
  A Participant who has ten years of Credited Service and is not eligible for early retirement under Section 5.02(a) may elect to have his benefit commence at any
time after he would have been eligible for an early retirement allowance had he remained in the service of the Company, but not later than his Normal Retirement Date.     

(d)  
    In the event the election under Section 5.04(c) is made, the vested retirement allowance shall be computed under Section 5.01(b) or
Section 5.01(c), as applicable, and the amounts computed under Section 5.01(b)(i) and (ii) or Section 5.01(c) shall be reduced      

by    1   /  15     th    for each
of the first five years and    1   /  30     th    for each of the next five years by which such commencement date
precedes his Normal Retirement Date and the amount computed under Section 5.01(b)(ii) shall be computed by projecting the Participant s years of Credited Service to Normal Retirement Date (but not in excess of 35 years) and multiplying
such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Participant s actual years of Credited Service at termination of employment and the denominator of which is the years of Credited Service the Participant would have had at Normal
Retirement Date if the Participant had continued in employment to such date.           

(e)  
  In the event that the Participant is not eligible to receive a benefit from another Company-sponsored plan or mandated plan but will receive such a benefit upon
attainment of a later age, no offset will be calculated for such benefit until the Participant is eligible to receive such benefit (at which time the offset will be calculated in accordance with Section 5.01(b)).     

(a)  
  If a Participant should die while an Employee and prior to his annuity commencement date after having completed five years of Vesting Service, his surviving spouse,
upon submitting proof of death satisfactory to the ALICO Benefit Committee, shall receive a death benefit under this Section. In addition, in order to be eligible for a death benefit under this Section, the spouse must be married to the Participant
for a minimum of 6 (six) months.         

(b)  
  If a Participant should die while an Employee, the death benefit shall be equal to the greater of (i) 40% of the Participant s projected retirement allowance
payable in the form of a single life annuity computed as if he had retired on his Normal Retirement Date on the basis of his Average Final Compensation at the time of his death, reduced by 2% for every year that the surviving spouse is more than
five years younger than the Participant, (ii) one-half of the Participant s allowance calculated as an early retirement allowance payable immediately upon the assumed retirement date in the form of a 50% joint and survivor annuity and
assuming retirement on the date of death or, if later, upon the attainment of age fifty-five (55) or age sixty-five (65) if the Participant has less than ten years of Credited Service, or (iii) in the case of a Participant who
continues in service beyond his Normal Retirement Date, an amount computed as if Option 2 in Section 5.07 (100 /0 Joint   Survivor Annuity) had been elected by the Participant and  was  in effect on the date of his death.

The death benefit shall be payable in monthly installments commencing with
the first day of the month following the month in which the Participant dies; provided, however, that any benefit payable pursuant to (b)(ii) above shall not be payable earlier than the first day of the month following the date the Participant would
have attained age fifty-five (55) or age sixty-five (65) if such Participant has less than ten years of Credited Service. The death benefit payable hereunder shall cease as of the first day of the month in which the surviving spouse dies.

(c)  
  In the event a Participant is retired from service (or terminates employment with a vested retirement allowance) at any time prior to his Normal Retirement Date and
dies prior to commencement of his retirement allowance, then his spouse shall receive an allowance for the life of said spouse at the rate of one-half of the allowance that would have been paid the Participant had he elected to have his early
retirement allowance commence as of the date of his death in the form of a 50% Joint   Survivor Annuity with his spouse named as beneficiary or as of his earliest retirement date, if he was not eligible to commence benefits as of his date
of death.         

(d)  
  The payment of a death benefit to a surviving spouse pursuant to this Section 5.05 shall not reflect a reduction pursuant to Section 5.01(b)(ii) until such
spouse is eligible for Social Security benefits.         

5.06  
  Payment of Retirement Allowance     
  Each retirement allowance shall be payable in monthly installments ceasing with the last monthly payment prior to death of the Participant
entitled thereto, except if and otherwise required as a survivorship payment under the normal retirement allowance or by an option in effect under the Plan. A lump sum payment of equivalent actuarial value shall be made in lieu of all benefits of a
Participant where such value is less than $10,000.00. If a Participant receives a lump sum payment, all of such Participant s Credited Service under the Plan for benefit computation purposes shall be canceled. Consequently, if such Participant
is reemployed and re-enters the Plan, his prior Vesting Service shall be restored and his prior years of Credited Service for benefit computation purposes shall be zero, but shall be restored for purposes of eligibility for Early Retirement.

All retirement allowances, under normal retirement or otherwise, shall be payable in U.S.
dollars or in such other currency as shall from time to time be determined by the ALICO Benefit Committee.       

5.07  
  Optional Form of Retirement Allowance        Any Participant may, by written notice duly acknowledged by him and received by the ALICO Benefit Committee within the 90-day period ending on his annuity starting date, elect to convert his retirement
allowance payable as a single life annuity (if he is unmarried) or his retirement allowance payable as a 50% Joint   Survivor Annuity (if he is married) into an optional form of benefit of equivalent actuarial value in accordance with one
of the options named below.      Option 1: Single Life Annuity.   
  The basic retirement allowance payable during the life of the Participant; or   
  Option 2: 100% Joint   Survivor Annuity.      An adjusted retirement allowance payable during the Participant s life, with the provision that after his death, it shall be paid during the life of, and to, the contingent annuitant nominated by him
by written designation duly acknowledged and filed with the ALICO Benefit Committee when he elected the option; or      Option 3:
 75%  Joint   Survivor Annuity.      An adjusted retirement allowance payable during the Participant s life,
with the provision that after his death, an allowance at three-quarters the rate of his reduced allowance shall be paid during the life of, and to, the contingent annuitant nominated by him by written designation duly acknowledged and filed with the
ALICO Benefit Committee when he elected the option; or   

Option 4: 50% Joint   Survivor Annuity.   
  An adjusted retirement allowance payable during the Participant s life, with the provision that after his death, an allowance at
one-half the rate of his reduced allowance shall be paid during the life of, and to, the contingent annuitant nominated by him by written designation duly acknowledged and filed with the ALICO Benefit Committee when he elected the option; or
     Option 5: Life and 10 Year Certain.      An adjusted retirement allowance payable during the Participant s life, but guaranteed for a period of ten years or, if lesser, a period of years not extending beyond the life expectancy of the
Participant and the designated beneficiary, beginning on the annuity commencement date. If a Participant dies before expiration of the guaranteed period certain, payment shall be continued to the extent provided in the preceding sentence to a
designated beneficiary (other than the Participant s estate).      For all period certain distributions
payable under the Plan, if the Participant s estate is the designated beneficiary or is the beneficiary as a result of the absence of a surviving designated beneficiary, the estate shall be paid, at the estate s election, either a lump sum
equal to the commuted value of the Participant s guaranteed period certain payments or in the form of the periodic allowance being paid prior to the Participant s death for the remainder of the guaranteed period certain. If the designated
beneficiary should die while further payments are due and after having received at least one (1) payment, such further payments shall be paid to any person designated by the Participant as an alternate surviving beneficiary, or in the absence
of an alternate surviving beneficiary, the commuted value of such payment shall be paid to the estate of the last surviving beneficiary in a single lump sum.       

5.08  
  Restoration of Retired Participant to Service        Except to the extent otherwise required under Section 5.06 or as hereinafter provided, if a Participant returns to employment with the Company or a Participating Company, his retirement allowance
shall be suspended during each calendar month of such employment. In the case of a Participant who received monthly retirement allowance payments, upon his   

subsequent retirement or termination of employment, his annual basic retirement allowance shall be recomputed, based on his retirement allowance accrued during his Plan participation prior and
subsequent to such return to employment and reduced to reflect the equivalent actuarial value of retirement allowance payments previously received by him. Section 5.06 shall apply in the case of a Participant who had previously received a lump
sum distribution. For this purpose, equivalent actuarial value shall be determined using the interest rate and mortality table used for this purpose under the American Life Insurance Company, Inc. Retirement Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
retirement allowance of a Participant who is reemployed on an hourly basis shall not be suspended by reason of such reemployment unless and until such Participant is reemployed in an employment classification that is eligible to accrue benefits
under the Plan.      6.  UNFUNDED PLAN       The Plan is unfunded, and there are no segregated Plan assets; provided, however, that the Company or a Participating Company may purchase an annuity (to be held in its own name) to make regular payments
to a retiree. The Company and Participating Companies intend to pay benefits pursuant to the terms of the Plan from their general assets.      7.  PARTICIPATING COMPANIES       If any company is now or hereafter becomes a subsidiary or
affiliated company of the Company, the Retirement Board may include the employees of such subsidiary or affiliated company in the membership of the Plan. In such event, or if any persons become Employees of the Company or of a Participating Company
as the result of merger or consolidation or as the result of acquisition of all or part of the assets or business of another company, the ALICO Benefit Committee shall determine to what extent, if any, credit and benefits shall be granted for
previous service with such subsidiary, affiliated or other company.      8.  ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN    

8.01  
  The operation and administration of the Plan and the responsibility for carrying out the provisions hereof shall be placed in a ALICO Benefit Committee of not less than
three members who shall be appointed from time to time by the Board of Directors.     

8.02  
  Any person appointed a member of the ALICO Benefit Committee shall signify his acceptance by filing written acceptance with the Board of Directors. Any member of the
ALICO Benefit Committee may resign by delivering his written resignation to the Board of Directors or to the Secretary of the ALICO Benefit Committee who shall transmit same to the Board of Directors, and such resignation shall become effective at
delivery or at any later date specified therein.         

8.03  
  The members of the ALICO Benefit Committee shall elect from their number a Chairman and shall appoint a Secretary, who may be but need not be one of the members of the
ALICO Benefit Committee. Subject to the direction of the Board of Directors, the ALICO Benefit Committee shall be authorized to allocate part or all of its responsibilities with respect to the Plan to or among one or more of its members and to vest
such members with joint or several authority to carry out such responsibilities.        The ALICO Benefit Committee may
appoint from their number such committees with such powers as they shall determine, may authorize one or more of their number or any agent to make any payment in their behalf, or to execute or deliver any instrument, may retain or appoint such
counsel, accountants and actuaries and may employ such agents, clerical and medical services as they may require in carrying out the provisions of the Plan; and may by written instrument designate other persons to carry out any of its duties and
responsibilities under the Plan; provided, however, that any such duties or responsibilities thus allocated must be described in the written instrument. If a person other than an Employee of the Company or a Participating Company in the Plan is so
designated, such person must acknowledge in writing his acceptance of the duties and responsibilities allocated to him.      If the
ALICO Benefit Committee delegates its authority to select Employees for membership and approve their membership in the Plan, the delegee shall provide annual reports to the ALICO Benefit Committee of the Employees selected for membership and their
dates of membership. If there is any issue regarding the membership or potential member of an Employee, the delegee shall refer the matter to the ALICO Benefit Committee.   

8.04  
  The ALICO Benefit Committee shall hold meetings upon such notice, at such place or places, and at such time or times as they may from time to time determine.

8.05  
    A majority of the members of the ALICO Benefit Committee at the time in office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. All
resolutions or other actions taken by the      

ALICO Benefit Committee may be made whether by the vote of a majority of the ALICO Benefit Committee present at a meeting or in writing signed by a majority of the members at the time in office
without a meeting.         

8.06  
  No member of the ALICO Benefit Committee who is also an Employee of the Company shall receive any compensation for his services as such. Except as otherwise provided in
Section 412 of the Act, no bond or other security need be required of any member in any jurisdiction.         

8.07  
  Subject to the limitations of the Plan, the ALICO Benefit Committee from time to time shall establish rules for the administration of the Plan and the transaction of
its business. The ALICO Benefit Committee shall have the authority to interpret the Plan and to decide any and all matters arising thereunder, including the right to remedy possible ambiguities, inconsistencies or omissions. All interpretations,
determinations and decisions of the ALICO Benefit Committee in respect of any matter hereunder shall be finally conclusive and binding on all parties affected thereby.     

8.08  
  The members of the ALICO Benefit Committee, the Company, each Participating Company and the officers and directors shall be entitled to rely upon all tables,
valuations, certificates and reports furnished by any actuary approved by the ALICO Benefit Committee, upon all certificates and reports made by any accountant selected or approved by the ALICO Benefit Committee, and upon all opinions given by any
legal counsel selected or approved by the ALICO Benefit Committee, and the members of the ALICO Benefit Committee, the Company, each Participating Company and the officers and directors shall be fully protected in respect of any action taken or
suffered by them in good faith in reliance upon any tables, valuations, certificates, reports, opinions, or other advice, furnished by any such actuary, accountant, or counsel, and all action so taken or suffered shall be conclusive upon each of
them and upon all parties affected thereby.        The members of the ALICO Benefit Committee shall use ordinary care
and diligence in performance of their duties, but no member shall be personally liable by virtue of any contract, agreement, bond or other instrument made or executed by him or on his behalf as a member of the ALICO Benefit Committee, nor for any
loss unless resulting from his own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Company shall indemnify and save harmless each and all of the members of the ALICO Benefit Committee against and from all loss, cost, damage and expenses arising out of
or connected with their actions or failures as members of the ALICO Benefit Committee, provided such act or failures shall have been done and made in good faith and shall not have constituted willful misconduct or gross negligence.   

9.  CERTAIN RIGHTS AND LIMITATIONS     

9.01  
  The Company may amend in whole or in part any or all of the provisions of the Plan and may do so retroactively if deemed necessary or appropriate to conform with
governmental regulations. The Company may terminate the Plan for any reason at any time. In case of termination or partial termination of the Plan, benefits accrued under the Plan by Participants affected by such termination or partial termination
shall become fully vested and nonforfeitable.         

9.02  
  The establishment of the Plan shall not be considered as conferring any legal rights upon any Employee or other person for a continuation of employment, nor shall it
interfere with the rights of the Company or a Participating Company to discharge any Participant and to treat him without regard to the effect which such treatment might have upon him as a Participant of the Plan.     

9.03  
  In the event of the death of a Participant, beneficiary, or contingent annuitant not survived by a person designated to receive any payment then due, or in the event
that the ALICO Benefit Committee shall find that a Participant or other person entitled to a benefit is unable to care for his affairs because of illness or accident or is a minor or has died, the ALICO Benefit Committee may direct that any benefit
payment due him unless claim shall have been made therefore by a duly appointed legal representative, be paid to his spouse, child, a parent or other blood relative, or to a person with whom he resides, and any such payment so made shall be a
complete discharge of the liabilities of the Plan therefore.        10.  OTHER PROVISIONS    

10.01  
    Subject to the applicable law, no benefit under the Plan shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment,
pledge, encumbrance or charge, and any attempt so to do shall be void, except as specifically provided in the Plan, nor shall any such benefit be in any manner liable for or subject to garnishment, attachment, execution or levy, or liable for or
subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements or torts of the persons entitled to such benefit; and in the event that the ALICO Benefit Committee shall find that any

Participant, beneficiary or contingent annuitant under the Plan has become bankrupt or that any attempt has been made to anticipate, alienate, sell, transfer, assign., pledge, encumber or charge
any of his benefits under the Plan except as specifically provided in the Plan, then such benefit shall cease and terminate, and in that event the ALICO Benefit Committee shall hold or apply the same to or for the benefit of such Participant,
beneficiary or contingent annuitant, his spouse, children, parents or other blood relatives, or any of them.        11.
 CONSTRUCTION        

11.01  
  The Plan shall be construed, regulated and administered under the laws of Bermuda.     

11.02  
  The masculine pronoun shall mean the feminine wherever appropriate.     

</EX-10.88>

<EX-10.89>
 28
 d302570dex1089.htm
 AMENDMENT NUMBER ONE TO THE ALICO OVERSEAS PENSION PLAN

Amendment Number One to the Alico Overseas Pension Plan 

Exhibit 10.89        AMENDMENT NUMBER ONE TO         THE ALICO OVERSEAS PENSION PLAN
       THE ALICO OVERSEAS PENSION PLAN (the  Plan ) is hereby amended, effective November 1, 2010, except as otherwise set
forth herein, as follows:       

1.  
  Section 1.09 of the Plan is amended by deleting the phrase  by the Company or a Participating Company who is not eligible for participation in the American
International Group, Inc. Retirement Plan (and who would not be eligible upon satisfaction of the American International Group, Inc. Retirement Plan age and service requirements) who is regularly employed.      

2.  
  Section 1.15 of the Plan is amended by deleting in its entirety the definition of  ALICO Benefit Committee  and replacing it with the following
definition:          Plan Administrator  shall mean the party responsible for the administration of the
Plan as set forth in Article 8.        

3.  
  The Plan is amended by deleting the term  ALICO Benefit Committee  each place it appears therein and replacing it in each such instance with the term
 Plan Administrator.          

4.  
  Section 2.02 of the Plan is amended by adding the phrase  or any affiliate of the MetLife, Inc. enterprise  immediately after the phrase
 Participating Company.          

5.  
  Section 3.01 of the Plan is amended by adding the phrase  or a Participating Company  immediately following the word  Company  the first time
it appears therein and by adding the phrase  , a Participating Company or any affiliate of the MetLife, Inc. enterprise  immediately following the word  Company  the second time it appears therein.     

6.  
  Section 5.01(b)(iv) of the Plan is amended by deleting the phrase  the American International Group, Inc. Executive Severance Policy  and replacing it
with the phrase  any severance plan or policy of the Company or any affiliate of the MetLife, Inc. enterprise.          

7.  
  Section 5.01(b)(v) of the Plan is amended by adding the phrase  or any affiliate of the MetLife, Inc. enterprise  immediately following the phrase
 Participating Company  the second time it appears therein.         

8.  
  Section 5.01(b)(vi) of the Plan is amended by adding the phrase  or any affiliate of the MetLife, Inc. enterprise  immediately following the phrase
 Participating Company.          

9.  
  Section 5.02(c) of the Plan is amended by adding the phrase  or any affiliate of the MetLife, Inc. enterprise-sponsored  after the phrase
 Company-sponsored.          

10.  
  The second paragraph of Section 5.03(a) of the Plan is amended by adding the phrase  or any affiliate of the MetLife, Inc. enterprise  after the phrase
 Participating Company.      

11.  
  The third paragraph of Section 5.03(b) of the Plan is amended by adding the phrase  or any affiliate of the MetLife, Inc. enterprise  after the phrase
 Participating Company  the second time it appears therein.         

12.  
  Section 5.03(c) of the Plan is amended by adding the phrase  or any affiliate of the MetLife, Inc. enterprise  after the phrase  Participating
Company  each time it appears therein.         

13.  
  Section 5.04(c) of the Plan is amended by adding the phrase  or a Participating Company  after the word  Company .     

14.  
  Section 5.04(e) of the Plan is amended by adding the phrase  or any affiliate of the MetLife, Inc. enterprise-sponsored  after the phrase
 Company-sponsored.          

15.  
  Section 5.08 of the Plan is amended by deleting the phrase  American Life Insurance Company, Inc. Retirement Plan  and replacing it with the phrase
 Metropolitan Life Retirement Plan for United States Employees.          

16.  
  Article 7 of the Plan is hereby restated in its entirety to read as follows:          PARTICIPATING COMPANIES       Participating Company means the following
entity:      (a) MetLife Global, Inc.        

17.  
  Article 8 of the Plan is hereby restated in its entirety to read as follows:          ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN        

8.01  
  The Plan Administrator shall be the Plan Administrator for the New England Life Insurance Company Retirement and Health   Welfare Plans.

8.02  
  The Plan Administrator shall administer the Plan.         

8.03  
  The Plan Administrator may establish, amend, and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, provide for conditions necessary or advisable to protect the
interest of the Company, the Participating Companies or any affiliate of the MetLife, Inc. enterprise, construe all communications related to the Plan, and make all other determinations it deems necessary or advisable for the administration and
interpretation of the Plan. The Plan Administrator may conform any provision of this Plan to the extent such provision is inconsistent with applicable law.     

8.04  
  Determinations, interpretations, and other actions made by the Plan Administrator shall be final, binding, and conclusive for all purposes and upon all individuals.

8.05  
  The Plan Administrator may prescribe forms as the sole and exclusive means for Participants to take actions authorized or allowed under the Plan. The Plan Administrator
may issue communications to eligible Employees and Participants as it deems necessary or appropriate in connection with the Plan.         

8.06  
  Except to the extent prohibited by law, communication by the Plan Administrator (and by an eligible Employee or Participant to the extent authorized by the Plan
Administrator) of any document or writing, including any document or writing that must be executed by a party, may be in an electronic form of communication.     
         2   

8.07  
  The Plan Administrator may appoint such agents, who may be officers or employees of the Company, a Participating Company or any affiliate of the MetLife, Inc.
enterprise, as it deems necessary or appropriate to assist it in administering the Plan and may grant authority to such agents to execute documents and take action on its behalf. The Plan Administrator may engage or consult, as appropriate, such
legal counsel, consultants, actuaries, third party administrators or other professionals as it deems desirable and may rely on any opinion, as applicable, received from any such professional or from its agent. All expenses incurred in the
administration of the Plan shall be paid by the Company, a Participating Company or one or more affiliates of the MetLife, Inc. enterprise.          

18.  
  The first sentence of Section 9.01 of the Plan is hereby restated in its entirety to read as follows:     
   The Company or the Plan Administrator may amend in whole or in part any or all of the provisions of the Plan and may do so
retroactively if deemed necessary or appropriate to conform with governmental regulations; provided, however, that the Plan Administrator may not so amend the Plan if any such amendment or group of amendments made effective on the same date would
increase or decrease the annual cost of Plan benefits for Participants by $2 million or more.        

19.  
  Section 11.01 of the Plan is amended, effective January 1, 2011, by deleting the word  Bermuda  and replacing it with  the Island of
Guernsey.         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, American Life Insurance Company has caused this amendment to be executed by an officer
thereunto duly authorized on the date noted below the officer s signature.       

AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY    

By:  
     
    /s/ Ralph R. Gonzalez     

Name:  
     
    Ralph R. Gonzalez     

Title:  
     
    Sr. Vice President   General
Counsel     

Witness:  
     
    /s/ Mayer Naiman     

Name:  
     
    Mayer Naiman     
 
         3   

</EX-10.89>

<EX-10.90>
 29
 d302570dex1090.htm
 AMENDMENT NUMBER TWO TO THE ALICO OVERSEAS PENSION PLAN

Amendment Number Two to the Alico Overseas Pension Plan 

Exhibit 10.90        AMENDMENT NUMBER TWO        TO    
    THE ALICO OVERSEAS PENSION PLAN        THE ALICO OVERSEAS PENSION PLAN (the  Plan ) is hereby amended, effective as of November 1, 2011, as follows:   

1.  
  Section 2.01 of the Plan is hereby amended by adding the following sentence to the end of such section:     
   Effective November, 1, 2011, participation in the Plan is closed to any Employee who was not already a Participant as of
October 31, 2011.        

2.  
  Section 2.04 of the Plan is hereby amended by adding the phrase  and if the Plan Administrator approves such continued participation  at the end of the
first sentence and adding the phrase  If the Plan Administrator approves such continued participation,  at the beginning of the second sentence.         

3.  
  Section 2.05 of the Plan is hereby amended by adding the following sentence to the end of such section:     
   The Participant shall be responsible for notifying the Plan Administrator of any benefits that are offset under
Section 5.01(b) of the Plan and any information needed to calculate his benefits under Section 5.01(c) of the Plan. In addition, the Participant is responsible for keeping the Plan Administrator notified of his address.    

4.  
  Section 3.01 of the Plan is hereby amended by replacing the phrase  (except such Employee s first six months of service)  with  (except such
Employee s first six months of service as measured from the first day of the month in which the Employee was hired).          

5.  
  Section 4.04 of the Plan is hereby amended to read as follows:         If any former Participant is reemployed after incurring a break in Continuous Service, he shall, subject to the approval of the Plan Administrator, again become a Participant for purposes of the
Plan as of the date he completes a year of Continuous Service. Where the Plan Administrator approves his continued participation and his prior Credited Service and Continuous Service are restored pursuant to Section 4.03, he shall become a
Participant retroactively to his date of rehire. Otherwise, where the Plan Administrator approves his continued participation, his participation shall be retroactive to the first day of the month in which the Participant has completed six months of
service with the Company or a Participating Company following such reemployment .       

6.  
  Section 5.01(d)(ii) of the Plan is hereby amended by adding the phrase  , as determined by the Plan Administrator,  after the words  equivalent
actuarial value .     

7.  
  Section 5.06 is hereby amended by adding the phrase  with the approval of the Plan Administrator  after the words  re-enters the Plan  in the
fourth sentence and by adding the following paragraph to the end of such section:         In the event a
Participant with an early retirement allowance or a vested retirement allowance fails to elect to have his benefit commence by his Normal Retirement Date, a late retirement factor, as determined by the Plan Administrator, will be applied to his
early retirement allowance or vested retirement allowance computed under Section 5.01, and Section 5.02 or 5.04, whichever is applicable, at the time of commencement. In the event the spouse of a terminated Participant fails to elect to
have the death benefit under Section 5.05(c) commence by the date that would have been the Participant s Normal Retirement Date, a late retirement factor, as determined by the Plan Administrator, shall be applied to the spouse s death
benefit computed under Section 5.05(c).        

8.  
  Section 5.08 of the Plan is hereby amended by adding the phrase  (if applicable)  after the words  prior and subsequent  in the first sentence.

9.  
  Section 8.03 of the Plan is hereby amended by adding the following sentence to the end of such section:     
   Wherever the term  equivalent actuarial value ,  actuarial equivalent  or a term with a similar meaning is used
throughout the Plan and specific actuarial assumptions are not included, the actuarial factors to be used shall be determined by the Plan Administrator.        

METLIFE GLOBAL, INC.    

By:  
     
    /s/ Mark J. Davis    

Mark J. Davis   

Plan Administrator    

Witness:  
     
    /s/ Francesca Pulis    
 
         2   

</EX-10.90>

<EX-10.93>
 30
 d302570dex1093.htm
 AMENDMENT NUMBER TWO TO THE MPTA

Amendment Number Two to the MPTA 

Exhibit 10.93        AMENDMENT NUMBER TWO TO         THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE
FOR OFFICERS        ( Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2010 )   
  THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS (the  Plan ) is hereby amended, effective November 1, 2011, as
follows:       

1.  
  Section 1.4.05 of the Plan is hereby amended by adding the following new Subsection (c) at the end thereof to read as follows:     
   Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection (b)(2) of this Section 1.4.05, with respect to an Employee whose name appears on
Schedule 1 of the MetLife Bank Mortgage Supplementary Severance Plan, the circumstances described in such Subsection (b)(2) shall constitute a Discontinuance of Employment.    

2.  
  Section 1.4.05 of the Plan is hereby amended by adding a new Subsection (d) at the end thereof to read as follows:     
   Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection (b)(4) of this Section 1.4.05, with respect to an Employee whose name appears on
(1) Schedule 1 of the MetLife Bank Mortgage Supplementary Severance Plan; (2) Appendix B of the MetLife Bank Enhanced Severance Plan for Fulfillment Employees; (3) Appendix A of the MetLife Bank Enhanced Severance Plan for Officer
Corporate Staff; or (4) Appendix A of the MetLife Bank Enhanced Severance and Retention Plan for Officer Servicing Employees, the circumstances described in such Subsection (b)(4) shall constitute a Discontinuance of Employment. 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company has caused this amendment to be executed by an officer thereunto duly
authorized on the date noted below the officer s signature.       

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY    

By:  
     
    /s/ Lynne E. DiStasio     

Name/Title:  
     
    Lynne E. DiStasio, Vice
President     

Witness:  
     
    /s/ Sophia Gordon    

</EX-10.93>

<EX-10.94>
 31
 d302570dex1094.htm
 AMENDMENT NUMBER THREE TO THE MPTA

Amendment Number Three to the MPTA 

Exhibit 10.94        AMENDMENT NUMBER THREE TO         THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE
FOR OFFICERS        ( Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2010 )   
  THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS (the  Plan ) is hereby amended, effective as of the dates set forth
below, as follows:       
 
   The transfer of an Employee to, or the offer of employment to an Employee by, an employer other than a MetLife Enterprise Affiliate
as a result of a sale, merger, acquisition, outsourcing of a function or similar transaction, provided the Employee continues to, or the offer of employment is for the Employee to continue to, perform the same or similar duties immediately following
such transfer or immediately upon the start of employment pursuant to such offer. The determination of whether an employee continues to, or the offer of employment is for the Employee to continue to, perform the same or similar duties immediately
following such transfer or immediately upon the start of employment pursuant to such offer shall be exclusively determined by the Company or Subsidiary; or        

2.  
  Effective January 1, 2012, Section 1.4.19 of the Plan is hereby amended by adding a new Subsection (ii) at the end of the second paragraph thereof to
read as follows:         American Life Insurance Company    

3.  
  Effective November 1, 2011, Section 4.1 of the Plan is hereby amended by adding the following new paragraph at the end thereof to read as follows:
        Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, with respect to an Employee whose name (or job
code, if applicable) appears on Appendix A or B of the MetLife Bank Enhanced Severance Plan for Fulfillment Employees, such Employee shall receive the greater of the Severance Pay determined under this Plan or the enhanced severance pay under the
MetLife Bank Enhanced Severance Plan for Fulfillment Employees. In no event will such Employee receive both Severance Pay under this Plan and enhanced severance pay under the MetLife Bank Enhanced Severance Plan for Fulfillment Employees. 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company has caused this amendment to be executed by an officer thereunto duly
authorized on the date noted below the officer s signature.       

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY    

By:  
     
    /s/ Lynne E. DiStasio     

Name/Title:  
     
    Lynne E. DiStasio,
Vice-President     

Witness:  
     
    /s/ Lucida Plummer    

</EX-10.94>

<EX-12.1>
 32
 d302570dex121.htm
 STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Statement re: Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

Exhibit 12.1        MetLife, Inc.        Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges    

(1)  
  Earnings were insufficient to cover fixed charges at a 1:1 ratio by $2,888 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to increased derivatives
losses on freestanding derivatives, partially offset by gains on embedded derivatives.     

(2)  
  Interest costs include $324 million and $411 million related to variable interest entities for the years ended December 2011 and 2010, respectively. Excluding these
costs would result in a ratio of earnings to fixed charges and ratio of earnings to fixed charges including preferred stock dividends of 2.39 and 2.36 and 1.56 and 1.54, respectively.     

(3)  
  For the year ended December 31, 2011, preferred stock dividends includes the redemption premium of $211 million associated with the convertible preferred stock
repurchased and canceled in March 2011.     
         1   

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 33
 d302570dex211.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Exhibit 21.1        METLIFE, INC.       As of December 31, 2011   
   Wholly-Owned Active Subsidiaries  1            

5.  
  500 GRANT STREET ASSOCIATES LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (CT)         

12.  
  AHICO FIRST AMERICAN HUNGARIAN INSURANCE COMPANY (ELSO AMERIKAI-MAGYAR BIZTOSITO) ZRT. (HUNGARY)     

13.  
  ALGICO PROPERTIES, LTD. (T T)         

14.  
  ALICO ASIGURARI ROMANIA S.A. (ROMANIA)         

15.  
  ALICO ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP. (JAPAN)         

16.  
  ALICO COMPANIA de SEGUROS de RETIRO, S.A. (ARGENTINA)         

17.  
  ALICO COMPANIA de SEGUROS, S.A. (ARGENTINA)         

18.  
  ALICO COSTA RICA S.A. (COSTA RICA)         

19.  
  ALICO EUROPEAN HOLDINGS LIMITED (IRELAND)         

20.  
  ALICO FUNDS CENTRAL EUROPE SPRAV. SPOL., A.S. (SLOVAKIA)         

21.  
  ALICO GESTORA de FONDOS y PLANOS de PENSIONES S.A. (SPAIN)         

22.  
  ALICO HELLAS SINGLE MEMBER LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY (GREECE)         

24.  
  ALICO LIFE INTERNATIONAL LIMITED (IRELAND)         

25.  
  ALICO LIMITED (NIGERIA)         

26.  
  ALICO MANAGEMENT SERVICES LIMITED (UK)         

27.  
  ALICO MEXICO COMPANIA de SEGUROS de VIDA, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO)         

28.  
  ALICO NAGASAKI OPERATION YUGEN KAISHA (JAPAN)         

29.  
  ALICO OPERATIONS, INC. (US)         

30.  
  ALICO SERVICES CENTRAL EUROPE S.R.O. (SLOVAKIA)         

31.  
  ALICO SERVICES, INC. (PANAMA)         

32.  
  ALICO SOCIETATE de ADMINISTRARE a UNUI FOND de PENSII ADMINISTRAT PRIVAT S.A.     

33.  
  ALICO TRAINING   CONSULTING S.R.L. (ROMANIA)         

34.  
  ALICO TRUSTEES LTD. (UK)         

35.  
  ALICO ZHIVOTOZASTRAHOVAT elno DRUZESTVO EAD (BULGARIA)         

36.  
  ALPHA PROPERTIES, INC. (US)         

1      
    Does not include real estate joint ventures and partnerships of which MetLife, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries is an investment partner.

37.  
  ALTERNATIVE FUEL I, LLC (DE)         

38.  
  AMCICO POJISTOVNA A.S. (CZECH REPUBLIC)         

39.  
  AMERICAN LIFE HAYAT SIGORTA A.S. (TURKEY)         

40.  
  AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (DE)         

41.  
  AMERICAN LIFE LIMITED (NIGERIA)         

42.  
  AMPLICO LIFE-FIRST AMERICAN POLISH LIFE INSURANCE   REINSURANCE COMPANY, S.A. (POLAND)     

43.  
  AMPLICO POWSZECHNE TOWARTZYSTWO (POLAND)         

44.  
  AMPLICO SERVICES SP Z.O.O. (POLAND)         

45.  
  AMPLICO TOWARTZYSTWO FUNDUSZKY INWESTYCYJNYCH S.A. (POLAND)         

46.  
  AMSLICO POIST OVNA ALICO A.S. (SLOVAKIA)         

47.  
  BEST MARKET S.A. (ARGENTINA)         

48.  
  BETA PROPERTIES, INC. (DE)         

49.  
  BORDERLAND INVESTMENT LIMITED (DE)         

50.  
  CITYPOINT HOLDINGS II LIMITED (UK)         

51.  
  CML COLUMBIA PARK FUND I LLC (DE)         

52.  
  COMMUNICATION ONE KABUSHIKI KAISHA (JAPAN)         

53.  
  COMPANIA PREVISIONAL METLIFE S.A. (BRAZIL)         

54.  
  CONVENT STATION EURO INVESTMENTS FOUR COMPANY (UK)         

55.  
  CORPORATE REAL ESTATE HOLDINGS, LLC (DE)         

57.  
  COVA LIFE MANAGEMENT COMPANY (DE)         

59.  
  DELAWARE AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (DE)         

60.  
  DELTA PROPERTIES JAPAN, INC. (DE)         

61.  
  DENIZ EMEKLILIK DE HAYAT A.S. (TURKEY)         

62.  
  ECONOMY FIRE   CASUALTY COMPANY (IL)         

63.  
  ECONOMY PREFERRED INSURANCE COMPANY (IL)         

64.  
  ECONOMY PREMIER ASSURANCE COMPANY (IL)         

65.  
  ELEVEN DEE LIMITED (T T)         

66.  
  ENTERPRISE GENERAL INSURANCE AGENCY, INC. (DE)         

67.  
  ENTRECAP REAL ESTATE II LLC (DE)         

68.  
  EPSILON PROPERTIES JAPAN, INC. (DE)         

69.  
  EURO CL INVESTMENTS, LLC (DE)         

70.  
  EURO TI INVESTMENTS LLC (DE)         

71.  
  EURO TL INVESTMENTS LLC (DE)         

72.  
  EXETER REASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD. (CAYMAN ISLANDS)         

73.  
  FEDERAL FLOOD CERTIFICATION CORP (TX)         

74.  
  FINANCIAL LEARNING KABUSHIKI KAISHA (JAPAN)         

75.  
  FIRST HUNGARIAN-AMERICAN INSURANCE AGENCY LIMITED (HUNGARY)         

76.  
  FIRST METLIFE INVESTORS INSURANCE COMPANY (NY)         

77.  
  FUNDACION METLIFE MEXICO, A.C. (MEXICO)         

78.  
  GALIC HOLDINGS LLC (DE)         

80.  
  GENERAL AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (MO)         

81.  
  GLOBAL PROPERTIES, INC. (DE)         

82.  
  GREATER SANDHILL I, LLC (DE)         

83.  
  GREENWICH STREET CAPITAL OFFSHORE FUND, LTD (VIRGIN ISLANDS)         

84.  
  GREENWICH STREET INVESTMENTS, L.L.C. (DE)         

85.  
  GREENWICH STREET INVESTMENTS, L.P. (DE)         

86.  
  HEADLAND PROPERTIES ASSOCIATES (CA)         

87.  
  HEADLAND-PACIFIC PALISADES, LLC (CA)     

88.  
  HOUSING FUND MANAGER, LLC (DE)         

90.  
  HYATT LEGAL PLANS OF FLORIDA, INC. (FL)         

91.  
  HYATT LEGAL PLANS, INC. (DE)         

92.  
  INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENT HOLDING COMPANY LIMITED (RUSSIA)         

93.  
  INTERNATIONAL SERVICES INCORPORATED (DE)         

94.  
  INTERNATIONAL TECHNICAL AND ADVISORY SERVICES LIMITED (DE)         

95.  
  INVERSIONES INTERAMERICANA S.A. (CHILE)         

96.  
  INVERSIONES METLIFE HOLDCO DOS LIMITADA (Chile)         

97.  
  IRIS PROPERTIES, INC. (DE)         

98.  
  KAPPA PROPERTIES JAPAN, INC. (DE)         

102.  
  MET P C MANAGING GENERAL AGENCY, INC. (TX)         

110.  
  META SIEFORE ADICIONAL, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO)         

111.  
  METCANADA INVESTMENTS LTD. (CANADA)         

112.  
  METLIFE ADMINISTRADORA DE FUNDOS MULTIPATROCINADOS LTDA. (BRAZIL)         

115.  
  METLIFE AKCIONARSKA DRUSTVOZA za ZIVOTNO OSIGURANJE (SERBIA)         

116.  
  METLIFE ALICO PREPARATORY COMPANY KK (JAPAN)         

117.  
  METLIFE ASIA PACIFIC LIMITED (HONG KONG)         

120.  
  METLIFE AUTO   HOME INSURANCE AGENCY, INC. (RI)         

121.  
  METLIFE BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (USA)         

122.  
  METLIFE CANADA/ METVIE CANADA (CANADA)         

123.  
  METLIFE CANADIAN PROPERTY VENTURES LLC (NY)         

127.  
  METLIFE CAPITAL, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (DE)         

128.  
  METLIFE CHILE ADMINISTRADORA DE MUTUOS HIPOTECARIOS S.A. (CHILE)         

129.  
  METLIFE CHILE INVERSIONES LIMITADA (CHILE)         

130.  
  METLIFE CHILE SEGUROS DE VIDA S.A. (CHILE)         

133.  
  METLIFE EU HOLDING COMPANY LIMITED (IRELAND)         

134.  
  METLIFE EUROPE LIMITED (IRELAND)         

135.  
  METLIFE EUROPE R LIMITED (IRELAND)         

136.  
  METLIFE EUROPE SERVICES LIMITED (IRELAND)         

137.  
  METLIFE EUROPEAN HOLDINGS, LLC. (DE)     

140.  
  METLIFE GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED (AUSTRALIA)         

141.  
  METLIFE GLOBAL HOLDING COMPANY I GmbH (SWISS I) (SWITZERLAND)         

142.  
  METLIFE GLOBAL HOLDING COMPANY II GmbH (SWISS II) (SWITZERLAND)         

143.  
  METLIFE GLOBAL HOLDINGS CORPORATION (MEXICO)         

144.  
  METLIFE GLOBAL OPERATIONS SUPPORT CENTER PRIVATE LIMITED (INDIA)         

146.  
  METLIFE GREENSTONE SOUTHEAST VENTURES, LLC (DE)         

151.  
  METLIFE INSURANCE AND INVESTMENT TRUST (AUSTRALIA)         

152.  
  METLIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF CONNECTICUT (CT)         

153.  
  METLIFE INSURANCE LIMITED (AUSTRALIA)         

154.  
  METLIFE INSURANCE LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM)         

155.  
  METLIFE INSURANCE S.A./NV (BELGIUM)         

156.  
  METLIFE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS, INC. (DE)         

157.  
  METLIFE INTERNATIONAL LIMITED, LLC (DE)         

158.  
  METLIFE INVESTMENT ADVISORS COMPANY, LLC (DE)         

159.  
  METLIFE INVESTMENT FUNDS SERVICES LLC (NJ)         

160.  
  METLIFE INVESTMENTS ASIA LIMITED (HONG KONG)         

161.  
  METLIFE INVESTMENTS LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM)         

162.  
  METLIFE INVESTMENTS PTY LIMITED (AUSTRALIA)         

163.  
  METLIFE INVESTORS DISTRIBUTION COMPANY (MO)         

165.  
  METLIFE INVESTORS INSURANCE COMPANY (MO)         

166.  
  METLIFE INVESTORS USA INSURANCE COMPANY (DE)         

167.  
  METLIFE IRELAND HOLDINGS ONE LIMITED (IRELAND)         

168.  
  METLIFE IRELAND TREASURY LIMITED (IRELAND)         

169.  
  METLIFE LATIN AMERICA ASESORIAS E INVERSIONES LIMITADA (CHILE)         

171.  
  METLIFE LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM)         

172.  
  METLIFE MEXICO CARES, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO)         

174.  
  METLIFE MEXICO SERVICIOS, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO)         

176.  
  METLIFE PENSIONES MEXICO S.A. (MEXICO)         

177.  
  METLIFE PENSIONS TRUSTEES LIMITED (UK)         

178.  
  METLIFE PLANOS ODONTOLOGICOS LTDA. (BRAZIL)         

179.  
  METLIFE PRIVATE EQUITY HOLDINGS, LLC (DE)         

180.  
  METLIFE PROPERTIES VENTURES, LLC (DE)         

181.  
  METLIFE PROPERTY VENTURES CANADA ULC (CANADA)         

182.  
  METLIFE REAL ESTATE CAYMAN COMPANY (CAYMAN ISLANDS)         

183.  
  METLIFE REINSURANCE COMPANY OF CHARLESTON (SC)         

184.  
  METLIFE REINSURANCE COMPANY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (SC)         

185.  
  METLIFE REINSURANCE COMPANY OF VERMONT (VT)         

186.  
  METLIFE RENEWABLES HOLDING, LLC (DE)     

187.  
  METLIFE RETIREMENT SERVICES LLC (NJ)         

189.  
  METLIFE SAENGMYOUNG INSURANCE COMPANY LTD. (SOUTH KOREA) - (also known as MetLife Insurance Company of Korea Limited)     

191.  
  METLIFE SEGUROS DE RETIRO S.A. (ARGENTINA)         

192.  
  METLIFE SEGUROS DE VIDA S.A. (ARGENTINA)         

193.  
  METLIFE SEGUROS DE VIDA S.A. (URUGUAY)         

194.  
  METLIFE SERVICES (SINGAPORE) PTE LIMITED (SINGAPORE)         

195.  
  METLIFE SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS, LLC (DE)         

196.  
  METLIFE SERVICES EAST PRIVATE LIMITED (INDIA)         

198.  
  METLIFE SERVICES LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM)         

199.  
  METLIFE SOLUTIONS PTE. LTD. (SINGAPORE)         

202.  
  METLIFE TOWER RESOURCES GROUP, INC. (DE)         

203.  
  METLIFE WORLDWIDE HOLDINGS, INC. (DE)         

205.  
  METROPOLITAN CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI)         

206.  
  METROPOLITAN CONNECTICUT PROPERTIES VENTURES, LLC (DE)         

207.  
  METROPOLITAN DIRECT PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI)         

208.  
  METROPOLITAN GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY (RI)         

209.  
  METROPOLITAN GLOBAL MANAGEMENT, LLC. (DE)         

210.  
  METROPOLITAN GROUP PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI)         

211.  
  METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (NY)         

212.  
  METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF HONG KONG LIMITED (HONG KONG)         

213.  
  METROPOLITAN LIFE SEGUROS DE VIDA S.A. (URUGUAY)         

214.  
  METROPOLITAN LIFE SEGUROS E PREVID NCIA PRIVADA S.A. (BRAZIL)         

216.  
  METROPOLITAN PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI)         

217.  
  METROPOLITAN REINSURANCE COMPANY (U.K.) LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM)         

218.  
  METROPOLITAN TOWER LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (DE)         

219.  
  METROPOLITAN TOWER REALTY COMPANY, INC. (DE)         

222.  
  MISSOURI REINSURANCE (BARBADOS), INC. (BARBADOS)         

223.  
  ML CAPACITACION COMERCIAL S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO)         

237.  
  NEW ENGLAND LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (MA)         

238.  
  NEW ENGLAND SECURITIES CORPORATION (MA)         

239.  
  NEWBURY INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED (BERMUDA)         

240.  
  ONE FINANCIAL PLACE CORPORATION (DE)         

241.  
  ONE MADISON INVESTMENTS (CAYCO) LIMITED (CAYMAN ISLANDS)         

244.  
  PARK TWENTY THREE INVESTMENTS COMPANY (UNITED KINGDOM)         

245.  
  PILGRIM ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS OPPORTUNITY FUND I, LLC (DE)         

250.  
  PREFCO FOURTEEN LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (CT)         

252.  
  PREFCO TEN LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (CT)         

253.  
  PREFCO TWENTY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (CT)         

261.  
  SAFEGUARD HEATLH ENTERPRISES, INC. (DE)         

262.  
  SAFEHEALTH LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (CA)         

263.  
  SERVICIOS ADMINISTRATIVOS GEN, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO)         

264.  
  ST. JAMES FLEET INVESTMENTS TWO LIMITED (CAYMAN ISLANDS)         

268.  
  THE DIRECT CALL CENTRE PTY LIMITED (AUSTRALIA)         

271.  
  TIC EUROPEAN REAL ESTATE LP, LLC (DE)         

277.  
  TRANSMOUNTAIN LAND   LIVESTOCK COMPANY (MT)         

278.  
  TRAVELERS INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENTS LTD. (CAYMAN ISLANDS)         

279.  
  WALNUT STREET SECURITIES, INC. (MO)         

282.  
  ZAO ALICO INSURANCE COMPANY (RUSSIA)         

284.  
  ZEUS ADMINISTRATION SERVICES LIMITED (UK)     

METLIFE, INC.        As of December 31, 2011       Companies of which MetLife, Inc.
directly or indirectly has actual ownership (for its own account) of 10% through 99% of the total  outstanding voting
stock  2              

1.  
  ALICO MUTUAL FUND MANAGEMENT COMPANY (GREECE) 90%         

7.  
  METLIFE INDIA INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED (26%) (INDIA)         

8.  
    METROPOLITAN LLOYDS INSURANCE COMPANY OF TEXAS   3    (TX)          

10.  
  PILGRIM ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS OPPORTUNITY FUND III ASSOCIATES, LLC (67%) (CT)     

2      
    Does not include real estate joint ventures and partnerships of which MetLife, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries is an investment partner.

3      
    Affiliate      

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 34
 d302570dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

![CDATA[Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP]]  

Exhibit 23.1        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We consent to
the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-170876, 333-170876-01, 333-170876-02, 333-170876-03, 333-170876-04 and 333-170876-05 on Form S-3 and 333-170879, 333-162927, 333-162926, 333-148024, 333-139384, 333-139383,
333-139382, 333-139380, 333-121344, 333-121343, 333-121342, 333-102306, 333-101291, 333-59134 and 333-37108 on Form S-8 of our report on the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules of MetLife, Inc., and subsidiaries
(the  Company ) dated February 28, 2012 (which expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph regarding changes in the Company s method of accounting for the recognition and presentation of
other-than-temporary impairment losses for certain investments as required by accounting guidance adopted on April 1, 2009) and our report on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting dated
February 28, 2012, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2011.      / S / D ELOITTE    T OUCHE  LLP      New
York, New York      February 28, 2012   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 35
 d302570dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

Exhibit 31.1        CERTIFICATIONS       I, Steven A. Kandarian, certify that:   
  1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of MetLife, Inc.;   
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying
officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15(d)-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and
       5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation
of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and     

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 28, 2012   

/s/ Steven A. Kandarian    
 
  Steven A. Kandarian   
 
  Chairman, President and   
 
  Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 36
 d302570dex312.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF INTERIM CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Certification of Interim Chief Financial Officer 

Exhibit 31.2        CERTIFICATIONS       I, Eric T. Steigerwalt, certify that:   
  1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of MetLife, Inc.;   
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying
officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15(d)-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and
       5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation
of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and     

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 28, 2012   

/s/ Eric T. Steigerwalt    
 
  Eric T. Steigerwalt   
 
  Executive Vice President and   
 
  Interim Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 37
 d302570dex321.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

Exhibit 32.1       SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION      CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF CHAPTER 63 OF
TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED STATES CODE      I, Steven A. Kandarian, certify that (i) MetLife, Inc. s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 (the  Form 10-K ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and (ii) the information contained in the Form 10-K fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of MetLife, Inc.      Date: February 28, 2012   

/s/ Steven A. Kandarian    
 
  Steven A. Kandarian   
 
  Chairman, President and   
 
  Chief Executive Officer   
 
   A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to
MetLife, Inc. and will be retained by MetLife, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 38
 d302570dex322.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF INTERIM CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Certification of Interim Chief Financial Officer 

Exhibit 32.2       SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION      CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF CHAPTER 63 OF
TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED STATES CODE      I, Eric T. Steigerwalt, certify that (i) MetLife, Inc. s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 (the  Form 10-K ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and (ii) the information contained in the Form 10-K fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of MetLife, Inc.      Date: February 28, 2012   

/s/ Eric T. Steigerwalt    
 
  Eric T. Steigerwalt   
 
  Executive Vice President and   
 
  Interim Chief Financial Officer   
 
   A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to
MetLife, Inc. and will be retained by MetLife, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 39
 met-20111231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 40
 met-20111231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 41
 met-20111231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 42
 met-20111231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 43
 met-20111231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 44
 met-20111231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

COVER
 55
 filename55.htm

SEC Cover letter 

Miriam B. Fine   
  Assistant General Counsel      Law Department
     Tel 212 578-0423     Fax 212 251-1653      February 28, 2012        VIA EDGAR     
  Securities and Exchange Commission      100 F
Street, N.E.      Washington D.C. 20549   
  Dear Sir or Madam:      On behalf
of MetLife, Inc. (the  Company ), transmitted herewith is the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 (the  Form 10-K ).   
  As discussed in Note 1 to the Company s consolidated financial statements contained in the Form 10-K, the consolidated financial
statements reflect a change in the method of accounting for the recognition and presentation of other-than-temporary impairment losses for certain investments as required by accounting guidance adopted on April 1, 2009.   
  Sincerely,      /s/ Miriam B. Fine      Miriam B. Fine   
  Attachment   

