<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20130227_10-K_edgar_data_1099219_0001193125-13-077792_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>72872957</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1677738</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>19434918</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>14871751</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>23850938</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>11305985</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>274</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>35</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-13-077792.hdr.sgml : 20130702

<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20130226211326

<PRIVATE-TO-PUBLIC>

ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-13-077792

CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K

PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		281

CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20121231

FILED AS OF DATE:		20130227

DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20130605


FILER:


	COMPANY DATA:	

		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			METLIFE INC

		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001099219

		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	LIFE INSURANCE [6311]

		IRS NUMBER:				134075851

		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE

		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231



	FILING VALUES:

		FORM TYPE:		10-K

		SEC ACT:		1934 Act

		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-15787

		FILM NUMBER:		13644790



	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		1095 AVENUE OF AMERICAS

		CITY:			NEW YORK

		STATE:			NY

		ZIP:			10036

		BUSINESS PHONE:		212-578-5500



	MAIL ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		1095 AVENUE OF AMERICAS

		CITY:			NEW YORK

		STATE:			NY

		ZIP:			10036




</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-13-077792.txt : 20130702

10-K
 1
 d450627d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549     
    
   Form 10-K        (Mark
One)    
 
    For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012    
   or       
 
   For the transition period from
                     to                     
       Commission file number 001-15787        MetLife, Inc.        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
       
     (212) 578-2211        (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)        Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:        

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange on which registered     

Common Stock, par value $0.01   
     
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
    Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, par value $0.01   
     
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
    6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B, par value $0.01   
     
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
    Common Equity Units   
     
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
    5.875% Senior Notes   
     
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
    5.375% Senior Notes   
     
  Irish Stock Exchange   
 
    5.25% Senior Notes   
     
  Irish Stock Exchange   
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None    
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.  Yes        No          Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Act.  Yes        No          Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.  Yes        No       
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any,
every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to submit and post such files).  Yes        No       
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K
(  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or
any amendment to this Form 10-K.           Indicate by
check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and
 smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):       

Large accelerated filer       
     
    Accelerated filer        
 
    Non-accelerated filer      (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)   
     
    Smaller reporting company        
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  Yes        No       
  The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant at
June 30, 2012 was approximately $32.8 billion. At February 19, 2013, 1,093,590,305 shares of the registrant s common stock were outstanding.       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE        Part III of
this Form 10-K incorporates by reference certain information from the registrant s definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 23, 2013, to be filed by the registrant with the Securities and
Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after the year ended December 31, 2012.        

Table of Contents  

      Table of Contents    

Page     Number    

Part I    
 
    Item 1.   
     
     Business    
        
  3   
 
    Item 1A.   
     
     Risk Factors    
        
  33   
 
    Item 1B.   
     
     Unresolved Staff Comments    
        
  65   
 
    Item 2.   
     
     Properties    
        
  65   
 
    Item 3.   
     
     Legal Proceedings    
        
  65   
 
    Item 4.   
     
     Mine Safety Disclosures    
        
  65   

Part II    
 
    Item 5.   
     
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    
        
  66   
 
    Item 6.   
     
     Selected Financial Data    
        
  68   
 
    Item 7.   
     
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
        
  70   
 
    Item 7A.   
     
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    
        
  176   
 
    Item 8.   
     
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
        
  186   
 
    Item 9.   
     
     Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    
        
  399   
 
    Item 9A.   
     
     Controls and Procedures    
        
  399   
 
    Item 9B.   
     
     Other Information    
        
  401   

Part III    
 
    Item 10.   
     
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    
        
  402   
 
    Item 11.   
     
     Executive Compensation    
        
  402   
 
    Item 12.   
     
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    
        
  403   
 
    Item 13.   
     
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
Independence    
        
  404   
 
    Item 14.   
     
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services    
        
  404   

Part IV    
 
    Item 15.   
     
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules     
        
  405   

Signatures      
        
  406   

Exhibit Index      
        
  E-1   

Table of Contents  

    As used in this Form 10-K,  MetLife,  the
 Company,   we,   our  and  us  refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999, its subsidiaries and affiliates.    
   Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements       
  This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations, may contain or incorporate by reference information that includes or is based upon forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements give
expectations or forecasts of future events. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as  anticipate,   estimate,   expect, 
 project,   intend,   plan,   believe  and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements
relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, trends in operations and
financial results.      Any or all forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by
inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many such factors will be important in determining the actual future results of MetLife, Inc., its subsidiaries and affiliates. These statements are based on current expectations
and the current economic environment. They involve a number of risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied
in the forward-looking statements. Risks, uncertainties, and other factors that might cause such differences include the risks, uncertainties and other factors identified in MetLife, Inc. s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (the  SEC ). These factors include: (1) difficult conditions in the global capital markets; (2) increased volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, which may affect our ability to meet liquidity
needs and access capital, including through our credit facilities, generate fee income and market-related revenue and finance statutory reserve requirements and may require us to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in value of
specified assets; (3) exposure to financial and capital market risk, including as a result of the disruption in Europe and possible withdrawal of one or more countries from the Euro zone; (4) impact of comprehensive financial services
regulation reform on us, as a potential non-bank systemically important financial institution, or otherwise; (5) numerous rulemaking initiatives required or permitted by Dodd-Frank which may impact how we conduct our business, including those
compelling the liquidation of certain financial institutions; (6) regulatory, legislative or tax changes relating to our insurance, international, or other operations that may affect the cost of, or demand for, our products or services, or
increase the cost or administrative burdens of providing benefits to employees; (7) adverse results or other consequences from litigation, arbitration or regulatory investigations; (8) potential liquidity and other risks resulting from our
participation in a securities lending program and other transactions; (9) investment losses and defaults, and changes to investment valuations; (10) changes in assumptions related to investment valuations, deferred policy acquisition
costs, deferred sales inducements, value of business acquired or goodwill; (11) impairments of goodwill and realized losses or market value impairments to illiquid assets; (12) defaults on our mortgage loans; (13) the defaults or
deteriorating credit of other financial institutions that could adversely affect us; (14) economic, political, legal, currency and other risks relating to our international operations, including with respect to fluctuations of exchange rates;
(15) downgrades in our claims paying ability, financial strength or credit ratings; (16) a deterioration in the experience of the  closed block  established in connection with the reorganization of Metropolitan Life Insurance
Company; (17) availability and effectiveness of reinsurance or indemnification arrangements, as well as any default or failure of counterparties to perform; (18) differences between actual claims experience and underwriting and reserving
assumptions; (19) ineffectiveness of risk management policies and procedures; (20) catastrophe losses; (21) increasing cost and limited market capacity for statutory life insurance reserve financings; (22) heightened competition,
including with respect to pricing, entry of new competitors, consolidation of distributors, the development of new products by new and existing competitors, and for personnel; (23) exposure to losses related to variable annuity guarantee benefits,
including from significant and sustained downturns or extreme volatility in equity markets,   
         1   

Table of Contents  

reduced interest rates, unanticipated policyholder behavior, mortality or longevity, and the adjustment for nonperformance risk; (24) our ability to address unforeseen liabilities, asset
impairments, or rating actions arising from acquisitions or dispositions, including our acquisition of American Life Insurance Company and Delaware American Life Insurance Company (collectively,  ALICO ) and to successfully integrate and
manage the growth of acquired businesses with minimal disruption; (25) uncertainty with respect to the outcome of the closing agreement entered into with the United States Internal Revenue Service in connection with the acquisition of ALICO;
(26) the dilutive impact on our stockholders resulting from the settlement of our outstanding common equity units; (27) regulatory and other restrictions affecting MetLife, Inc. s ability to pay dividends and repurchase common stock;
(28) MetLife, Inc. s primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and the applicable regulatory restrictions on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends; (29) the
possibility that MetLife s Board of Directors may control the outcome of stockholder votes through the voting provisions of the MetLife Policyholder Trust; (30) changes in accounting standards, practices and/or policies;
(31) increased expenses relating to pension and postretirement benefit plans, as well as health care and other employee benefits; (32) inability to protect our intellectual property rights or claims of infringement of the intellectual
property rights of others; (33) inability to attract and retain sales representatives; (34) Provisions of laws and our incorporation documents may delay, deter or prevent takeovers and corporate combinations involving MetLife; (35) the effects
of business disruption or economic contraction due to disasters such as terrorist attacks, cyberattacks, other hostilities, or natural catastrophes, including any related impact on the value of our investment portfolio, our disaster recovery
systems, cyber- or other information security systems and management continuity planning; (36) the effectiveness of our programs and practices in avoiding giving our associates incentives to take excessive risks; and (37) other risks and
uncertainties described from time to time in MetLife, Inc. s filings with the SEC.      MetLife, Inc. does
not undertake any obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if MetLife, Inc. later becomes aware that such statement is not likely to be achieved. Please consult any further disclosures MetLife, Inc. makes on related
subjects in reports to the SEC.       Note Regarding Reliance on Statements in Our Contracts    
  See  Exhibit Index   Note Regarding Reliance on Statements in Our Contracts  for information regarding
agreements included as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   
         2   

Table of Contents  

    Part I          Item 1.  Business    
     Index to Business        

Page     Number    

Overview    
      
  4   
 
     Segments and Corporate   Other    
      
  5   
 
     Sales Distribution    
      
  10   
 
     Policyholder Liabilities    
      
  13   
 
     Underwriting and Pricing    
      
  14   
 
     Reinsurance Activity    
      
  15   
 
     U.S. Regulation    
      
  17   
 
     International Regulation    
      
  27   
 
     Competition    
      
  29   
 
     Employees    
      
  30   
 
     Executive Officers    
      
  30   
 
     Trademarks    
      
  32   
 
     Available Information    
      
  32   
 
         3   

Table of Contents  

      Overview    
  As used in this Form 10-K,  MetLife,  the  Company,   we,   our  and
 us  refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999, its subsidiaries and affiliates.      With a more than 140-year history, we have grown to become a leading global provider of insurance, annuities and employee benefit programs, serving 90 million customers. Through our subsidiaries and
affiliates, we hold leading market positions in the United States, Japan, Latin America, Asia, Europe and the Middle East. Over the past several years, we have grown our core businesses, as well as successfully executed on our growth strategy. This
has included completing a number of transactions that have resulted in the acquisition and, in some cases, divestiture of certain businesses while also further strengthening our balance sheet to position MetLife for continued growth.   
  MetLife is organized into six segments, reflecting three broad geographic regions: Retail; Group,
Voluntary   Worksite Benefits; Corporate Benefit Funding; and Latin America (collectively, the  Americas  Asia; and Europe, the Middle East and Africa ( EMEA ). In addition, the Company reports certain of its results
of operations in Corporate   Other, which includes MetLife Bank, National Association ( MetLife Bank ) (see Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding MetLife Bank s exit from
certain of its businesses (the  MetLife Bank Divestiture )) and other business activities. Management continues to evaluate the Company s segment performance and allocated resources and may adjust related measurements in the future to
better reflect segment profitability.      On November 1, 2010 (the  ALICO Acquisition Date ),
MetLife, Inc. completed the acquisition of American Life Insurance Company ( American Life ) from AM Holdings LLC (formerly known as ALICO Holdings LLC) ( AM Holdings ), a subsidiary of American International Group, Inc.
( AIG ), and Delaware American Life Insurance Company ( DelAm ) from AIG (American Life, together with DelAm, collectively,  ALICO ) (the  ALICO Acquisition ). The assets, liabilities and operating results
relating to the ALICO Acquisition are included in the Latin America, Asia and EMEA segments. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      Certain international subsidiaries have a fiscal year-end of November 30. Accordingly, the Company s consolidated financial statements reflect the assets and liabilities of such subsidiaries as
of November 30, 2012 and 2011 and the operating results of such subsidiaries for the years ended November 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010.   
  In the U.S., we provide a variety of insurance and financial services products, including life,
dental, disability, property   casualty, guaranteed interest, stable value and annuities, through both proprietary and independent retail distribution channels, as well as at the workplace. This business serves approximately 60,000
group customers, including over 90 of the top 100 FORTUNE 500      companies, and provides protection and retirement
solutions to millions of individuals.      Outside the U.S., we operate in Latin America, Asia, Europe and the
Middle East. MetLife is the largest life insurer in both Mexico and Chile and also holds leading market positions in Japan, Poland and Korea. Our businesses outside the U.S. provide life insurance, accident   health insurance, credit
insurance, annuities, endowment and retirement   savings products to both individuals and groups. We believe these businesses will continue to grow more quickly than our U.S. businesses.   
  Revenues derived from any customer did not exceed 10% of consolidated premiums, universal life and investment-type
product policy fees and other revenues for the last three years. Financial information, including revenues, expenses, operating earnings, and total assets by segment, as well as premiums, universal life and investment-type product policy fees and
other revenues by major product groups, is provided in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Operating revenues and operating earnings are performance measures that are not based on accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ). See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures  for definitions of such measures.
  
         4   

Table of Contents  

   For financial information related to revenues, total assets, and goodwill
balances by geographic region, see Notes 2 and 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      We
are one of the largest institutional investors in the U.S. with a $533 billion general account portfolio invested primarily in investment grade corporate bonds, structured finance securities, commercial and agricultural mortgage loans,
U.S. Treasury and agency securities, as well as real estate and corporate equity. Over the past several years, we have taken a number of actions to further diversify and strengthen our general account portfolio.   
  Our well-recognized brand, leading market positions, competitive and innovative product offerings and financial strength
and expertise should help drive future growth and enhance shareholder value, building on a long history of fairness, honesty and integrity. Over the course of the next several years, we will pursue the following objectives to position the Company
for continued growth and achieve our vision of being recognized as the leading global life insurance and employee benefits provider:       

Refocus the U.S. businesses            

Shift product mix away from capital intensive products       

Invest in growth initiatives for the voluntary/worksite, accident   health, and direct channels       

Drive margin improvement           

Build the Global Employee Benefits business        

Accelerate our local employee benefits businesses in key markets outside the United States       

Grow our global benefits businesses through multinational and expatriate solutions       

Grow emerging markets presence            

Accelerate earnings in emerging markets in which we already have a strong presence       

Seek opportunistic mergers and acquisitions to complement our organic growth       

Drive toward customer centricity and a global brand        

Institutionalize customer centric actions and culture at MetLife       

Grow consideration and preference for MetLife s brand in key markets       
     Segments and Corporate   Other    
    Americas           Overview         Our businesses in the Americas
offer a broad range of protection products and services aimed at serving the financial needs of our customers throughout their lives. These products are sold to individuals and corporations, as well as other institutions, and their respective
employees.         Retail      
  Our Retail segment is organized into two businesses: Life   Other and Annuities.   
         5   

Table of Contents  

   The major products within Life   Other are as follows:   
   Variable Life.     Variable life products provide insurance coverage through a
contract that gives the policyholder flexibility in investment choices and, depending on the product, in premium payments and coverage amounts, with certain guarantees. Most importantly, with variable life products, premiums and account balances can
be directed by the policyholder into a variety of separate account investment options or directed to the Company s general account. In the separate account investment options, the policyholder bears the entire risk of the investment results. We
collect specified fees for the management of the investment options. The policyholder s cash value reflects the investment return of the selected investment options, net of management fees and insurance-related and other charges. In some
instances, third-party money management firms manage these investment options. With some products, by maintaining a certain premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse
investment experience.       Universal Life.     Universal life products
provide insurance coverage on the same basis as variable life, except that premiums, and the resulting accumulated balances, are allocated only to the Company s general account. Universal life products may allow the insured to increase or
decrease the amount of death benefit coverage over the term of the contract and the owner to adjust the frequency and amount of premium payments. We credit premiums to an account maintained for the policyholder. Premiums are credited net of
specified expenses. Interest is credited to the policyholder s account at interest rates we determine, subject to specified minimums. Specific charges are made against the policyholder s account for the cost of insurance protection and for
expenses. With some products, by maintaining a certain premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse investment experience.   
   Term Life.     Term life products provide a guaranteed benefit upon the death
of the insured for a specified time period in return for the periodic payment of premiums. Specified coverage periods range from one year to 30 years, but in no event are they longer than the period over which premiums are paid. Death benefits
may be level over the period or decreasing. Premiums may be guaranteed at a level amount for the coverage period or may be non-level and non-guaranteed. Term insurance products are sometimes referred to as pure protection products, in that there are
typically no savings or investment elements. Term contracts expire without value at the end of the coverage period when the insured party is still living.   
   Whole Life.     Whole life products provide a guaranteed benefit upon the death
of the insured in return for the periodic payment of a fixed premium over a predetermined period. Premium payments may be required for the entire life of the contract period, to a specified age or period, and may be level or change in accordance
with a predetermined schedule. Whole life insurance includes policies that provide a participation feature in the form of dividends. Policyholders may receive dividends in cash or apply them to increase death benefits, increase cash values available
upon surrender or reduce the premiums required to maintain the contract in-force. Because the use of dividends is specified by the policyholder, this group of products provides significant flexibility to individuals to tailor the product to suit
their specific needs and circumstances, while at the same time providing guaranteed benefits.   
   Disability.     Disability products provide a benefit in the event of the
disability of the insured. In most instances, this benefit is in the form of monthly income paid until the insured reaches age 65. In addition to income replacement, the product may be used to provide for the payment of business overhead expenses
for disabled business owners or mortgage payment protection.       Property  
Casualty.     These products include personal lines property   casualty insurance offered to individuals through a variety of retail distribution channels, including independent agents, property   casualty
specialists, and the individual distribution sales group.      Auto insurance policies provide
coverage for private passenger automobiles, utility automobiles and vans, motorcycles, motor homes, antique or classic automobiles and trailers. We also offer traditional   
         6   

Table of Contents  

coverage such as liability, uninsured motorist, no fault or personal injury protection, as well as collision and comprehensive insurance.   
  Homeowners  insurance policies provide protection for homeowners, renters, condominium owners and
residential landlords against losses arising out of damage to dwellings and contents from a wide variety of perils, as well as coverage for liability arising from ownership or occupancy. Other insurance includes personal excess liability (protection
against losses in excess of amounts covered by other liability insurance policies), and coverage for recreational vehicles and boat owners. Most of our homeowners  policies are traditional insurance policies for dwellings, providing protection
for loss on a  replacement cost  basis. These policies also provide additional coverage for reasonable, normal living expenses incurred by policyholders that have been displaced from their homes.   
  Auto insurance represented 58%, while homeowners and other insurance represented the remaining 42%, of
the total net earned premiums on these products in 2012. In 2012, our property   casualty business was concentrated in New York and Illinois, as measured by the percentage of total direct earned premiums, of 14% and 10%, respectively,
followed by Texas and Connecticut, each with 5%.       Other.   Additionally,
through our broker-dealer affiliates, we offer a full range of mutual funds and other securities products. The elimination of transactions from activity between the segments within the Americas occurs within Life   Other.   
  Our Annuities business offers a variety of variable and fixed annuities that are primarily sold to
individuals and tax-qualified groups in the education, healthcare and not-for-profit sectors.      The major
products within Annuities are as follows:       Variable Annuities.  Variable annuities
provide for both asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Variable annuities allow the contractholder to make deposits into various investment options in a separate account, as determined by the contractholder. The risks associated with such
investment options are borne entirely by the contractholder, except where guaranteed minimum benefits are involved. In certain variable annuity products, contractholders may also choose to allocate all or a portion of their account to the
Company s general account and are credited with interest at rates we determine, subject to certain minimums. In addition, contractholders may also elect certain minimum death benefit and minimum living benefit guarantees for which additional
fees are charged and where asset allocation restrictions may apply.       Fixed Annuities. 
Fixed annuities provide for both asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Fixed annuities do not allow the same investment flexibility provided by variable annuities, but provide guarantees related to the preservation of principal and
interest credited. Deposits made into deferred annuity contracts are allocated to the Company s general account and are credited with interest at rates we determine, subject to certain minimums. Credited interest rates are guaranteed not to
change for certain limited periods of time, ranging from one to 10 years. Fixed income annuities provide a guaranteed monthly income for a specified period of years and/or for the life of the annuitant.   
     Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits      
  We have built a leading position in the U.S. group insurance market through long-standing relationships with many of
the largest corporate employers in the U.S. Our Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits segment is organized into two businesses: Group and Voluntary   Worksite.   
  Our Group insurance products and services include life, dental, group short- and long-term disability and accidental
death   dismemberment coverages. We also sell administrative services-only ( ASO ) arrangements to some employers.   
         7   

Table of Contents  

   The major products within Group are as follows:   
   Life.     Life insurance products and services include variable life, universal
life, and term life products. These are similar to the products offered by the Retail Life   Other business except we offer group insurance products as employer-paid benefits or as voluntary benefits where all or a portion of the premiums
are paid by the employee. These life insurance products and services also include employee paid supplemental life and are offered as standard products or may be tailored to meet specific customer needs.   
   Dental.   Dental products provide insurance and ASO plans that assist employees, retirees
and their families in maintaining oral health while reducing out-of-pocket expenses and providing superior customer service. Dental plans include the Preferred Dentist Program and the Dental Health Maintenance Organization.   
   Disability.   Disability products provide a benefit in the event of the disability of the
insured. In most instances, this benefit is in the form of monthly income paid until the insured reaches age 65.      Our Voluntary   Worksite products and services include long-term care ( LTC ), prepaid legal plans, critical illness and property   casualty products.   
  The major products within Voluntary   Worksite are as follows:   
   Long-term Care.   LTC products provide protection against the potentially high costs of
LTC services. They generally pay benefits to insureds who need assistance with activities of daily living or have a cognitive impairment. Although we discontinued the sale of these products in 2010, we continue to support our existing policyholders.
      Property   Casualty . These products include personal lines
property   casualty insurance offered directly to employees at their employer s worksite, through a variety of distribution channels, including independent agents, property   casualty specialists and direct marketing. The
property   casualty products offered by the Voluntary   Worksite business are the same products offered by the Retail property   casualty business. Auto insurance represented 75%, while homeowners and other insurance
represented the remaining 25%, of the total net earned premiums on these products in 2012. In 2012, our property   casualty business was concentrated in Massachusetts, New York and Florida, as measured by the percentage of total direct
earned premiums, of 14%, 9% and 7%, respectively, followed by Texas, New Jersey and California, each with 6%.   
     Corporate Benefit Funding         The Corporate Benefit Funding segment provides funding and financing solutions that help institutional customers mitigate and manage liabilities primarily associated with their qualified, nonqualified and
welfare employee benefit programs using a spectrum of life and annuity-based insurance and investment products.   
  The major products within Corporate Benefit Funding are as follows:   
   Stable Value Products.     We offer general account guaranteed interest
contracts, separate account guaranteed interest contracts, and similar products used to support the stable value option of defined contribution plans. We also offer private floating rate funding agreements that are used for money market funds,
securities lending cash collateral portfolios and short-term investment funds.       Pension
Closeouts.  We offer general account and separate account annuity products, generally in connection with the termination of defined benefit pension plans, both in the U.S. and the United Kingdom ( U.K. ). These risk transfer
products include single premium buyouts that allow for full or partial transfers of pension liabilities.       Torts and Settlements.  We offer innovative strategies for complex litigation settlements, primarily structured settlement annuities.   
         8   

Table of Contents  

    Capital Markets Investment
Products.     Products offered include funding agreements, Federal Home Loan Bank advances and funding agreement-backed commercial paper.   
   Other Corporate Benefit Funding Products and Services.     We offer specialized
life insurance products and funding agreements designed specifically to provide solutions for funding postretirement benefits and company, bank or trust owned life insurance used to finance non-qualified benefit programs for executives.   
     Latin America         We operate in six countries in Latin America: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, and Uruguay. Our largest operations are in Mexico, Chile and Argentina. In addition to the various products
discussed in other segments within the Americas, Latin America engages in the following businesses:   
   Accident   health insurance.  We offer group and individual major medical, accidental, and supplemental
health products, including accidental death and disability, medical reimbursement, hospital indemnity and medical coverage for serious medical conditions.       Administradora de Fondos de Ahorro para el Retiro  (  AFORE ) . Through our AFORE company in Mexico, we offer a savings oriented pension product under the mandatory privatized social
security system for all non-government employees.       Credit insurance . We offer credit insurance policies
designed to fulfill certain loan obligations in the event of the policyholder s death.      See Note 3 of the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the disposition of insurance operations in the Caribbean region, Panama and Costa Rica. See also Note 23 for information on the acquisition of Administradora de Fondos de Pensiones
Provida S.A. ( Provida ) in Chile.        Asia     
  We operate in nine countries in Asia, with our largest operations in Japan and Korea. Other operations in Asia include
Australia, Bangladesh, Hong Kong, Nepal and Pakistan, as well as an unconsolidated operating joint venture in China, the results of which are reflected in net investment income and a consolidated operating joint venture in India. Our Asia segment
engages in the following businesses:       Life insurance.  We offer both traditional and non-traditional
life insurance products, such as whole life, term life, endowments, universal life and variable life products. We offer group life programs in most markets.       Accident   health insurance.  We offer individual and group personal accident and supplemental health products, including accidental death and dismemberment, hospital indemnity, scheduled
medical reimbursement plans, and coverage for serious medical conditions. In addition, we offer individual and group major medical coverage in select markets.   
   Retirement and savings products.  We offer both fixed and variable annuity products in select markets, with our
largest markets in Japan, Korea and China.       Credit insurance.  We offer credit insurance policies
designed to fulfill certain obligations in the event of the policyholder s death in select markets, including Japan, Australia and Bangladesh.      See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the sale of the Company s 50% interest in its former operating joint venture in Japan in the second quarter
of 2011.   
         9   

Table of Contents  

     EMEA     
  We operate in 31 countries across EMEA, with our largest operations in Poland, the U.K., France and the United Arab
Emirates. EMEA engages in the following businesses:       Life insurance.  We offer both traditional and
non-traditional life insurance products, such as whole life, term life, endowments, universal life and variable life products. We offer group term life programs in most markets.   
   Accident   health insurance.  We offer individual and group personal accident and supplemental health
products, including accidental death and dismemberment, hospital indemnity, scheduled medical reimbursement plans, and coverage for serious medical conditions. In addition, we offer individual and group major medical coverage in select markets.
      Retirement and savings products.  We offer both fixed and variable annuity products and pension
products, including group pension programs in select markets. In Poland and Romania we offer through specialized pension companies a savings oriented pension product under the mandatory privatized social security systems.   
   Credit i  nsurance.  We offer credit insurance policies designed to fulfill certain obligations in the event
of the policyholder s death.        Corporate   Other     
  The Company reports certain of its results of operations in Corporate   Other, which includes MetLife Bank (see
Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the MetLife Bank Divestiture) and other business activities. Corporate   Other contains the excess capital not allocated to the segments, external
integration costs, internal resource costs for associates committed to acquisitions, enterprise-wide strategic initiative restructuring charges and various start-up and certain run-off entities. Corporate   Other also includes assumed
reinsurance of certain variable annuity products from our former operating joint venture in Japan. Under this in-force reinsurance agreement, we reinsure the living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with variable annuity products.
Additionally, Corporate   Other includes interest expense related to the majority of the Company s outstanding debt, expenses associated with certain legal proceedings and income tax audit issues. Corporate   Other also
includes the elimination of intersegment amounts, which generally relate to intersegment loans, which bear interest rates commensurate with related borrowings.         Sales Distribution         Overview
       In the Americas, excluding Latin America, we market our products and services through various
distribution channels. Our retail life, disability and annuities products targeted to individuals are sold via sales forces, comprised of MetLife employees, in addition to third-party organizations. Our group and corporate benefit funding products
are sold via sales forces primarily comprised of MetLife employees. Personal lines property   casualty insurance products are directly marketed to employees at their employer s worksite. Personal lines property   casualty
insurance products are also marketed and sold to individuals by independent agents and property   casualty specialists through a direct marketing channel and the individual distribution sales group. MetLife sales employees work with all
distribution groups to better reach and service customers, brokers, consultants and other intermediaries.      In
Asia, Latin America, and EMEA, we market our products and services through a multi-distribution strategy which varies by geographic region and stage of market development. The various distribution channels include: career agency, bancassurance,
direct marketing, brokerage, other third-party distribution, and e-commerce. In developing countries, the career agency channel covers the needs of the emerging middle class with primarily traditional products (e.g., whole life, term, endowment and
accident   health). In more developed and mature markets, career agents, while continuing to serve their existing customers to keep pace with their developing   
         10   

Table of Contents  

financial needs, also target upper middle class and mass affluent customer bases with a more sophisticated product set including more investment-sensitive products, such as universal life
insurance, unit-linked life insurance, mutual funds and single premium deposit insurance. In the bancassurance channel, we leverage partnerships that span all regions and have developed extensive and far reaching capabilities in all regions. Our
direct marketing operations, the largest of which is in Japan, deploy both broadcast marketing approaches (e.g. direct response TV, web-based lead generation) and traditional direct marketing techniques such as inbound and outbound telemarketing.
       Americas           Retail Distribution         Retail products are
sold through a diverse set of distribution networks in order to maximize penetration in the market place. These include individual and third-party distribution, property   casualty specialists and direct marketing.   
  Our individual distribution sales group targets the large middle-income market, as well as affluent individuals, owners
of small businesses and executives of small- to medium-sized companies. We have also been successful in selling our products in various multi-cultural markets.      The individual distribution sales group is comprised of three channels: the MetLife distribution channel, a career agency system, the New England Financial distribution channel, a general agency system,
and MetLife Resources, a career agency system.      The MetLife distribution channel had approximately 4,000
MetLife agents under contract in 48 agencies at December 31, 2012. This career agency sales force focuses on the large middle-income and affluent markets, including multi-cultural markets. We support our efforts in multi-cultural markets
through targeted advertising, specially trained agents and sales literature written in various languages.      The
New England Financial distribution channel included approximately 30 general agencies providing support to approximately 1,700 general agents and a network of independent brokers throughout the U.S. at December 31, 2012. The New England
Financial distribution channel targets high net worth individuals, owners of small businesses and executives of small- to medium-sized companies.      MetLife Resources, a focused distribution channel of MetLife, markets retirement, annuity and other financial products on a national basis through approximately 530 MetLife agents and independent brokers
at December 31, 2012. MetLife Resources targets the nonprofit, educational and healthcare markets.   
  Retail Life   Other and Annuity products are sold through our individual distribution sales group and also
through various third-party organizations. We distribute products in a regional model through wholesalers working directly with high net worth individuals and small- to medium-sized businesses through independent general agencies, financial
advisors, consultants, brokerage general agencies and other independent marketing organizations under contractual arrangements. Additionally, wholesalers sell through financial intermediaries, including regional broker-dealers, brokerage firms,
financial planners and banks.      We market and sell property   casualty products through independent
agents, property   casualty specialists, a direct marketing channel and the individual distribution sales group. In recent years, we have increased the number of independent agents appointed to sell these products.   
     Group Distribution         Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits distributes its Group products and services through a sales force that is segmented by the size of the target customer. Marketing representatives sell either
directly to corporate and other group customers or through an intermediary, such as a broker or consultant. Voluntary   Worksite products are sold through the same sales channels, as well as by specialists for these products. Employers have
been   
         11   

Table of Contents  

emphasizing voluntary products and, as a result, we have increased our focus on communicating and marketing to employees in order to further foster sales of those products. At December 31,
2012, the Group sales channels had approximately 300 marketing representatives.      We are a leading provider of
personal lines property   casualty insurance products offered to employees at their employer s worksite. Marketing representatives market personal lines property   casualty insurance products to employers through a variety of
means, including broker referrals and cross-selling to group customers. Once permitted by the employer, MetLife commences marketing efforts to employees, enabling them to purchase coverage and to request payroll deduction over the telephone.
     We have entered into several operating joint ventures and other arrangements with third parties to expand the
marketing and distribution opportunities of Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits products and services. We also seek to sell our group products and services through sponsoring organizations and affinity groups. In addition, we also provide
life and dental coverage to certain employees of the U.S. Government.         Corporate Benefit Funding Distribution
        Corporate Benefit Funding products and services are distributed through dedicated sales teams and
relationship managers located in eight offices in the U.S. and one in the U.K. Products may be sold directly to benefit plan sponsors and advisors or through brokers, consultants or other intermediaries. In addition, these sales professionals work
with individual, group and global distribution areas to better reach and service customers, brokers, consultants and other intermediaries.         Latin America Distribution         Latin
America s distribution channels include captive agents, direct marketing, bancassurance, large multinational brokers and small-and medium-sized brokers, direct and group sales forces (mostly for group policies without broker intermediation),
and worksite marketing. The region has an exclusive and captive agency distribution network with more than 2,800 agents also selling a variety of individual life, accident   health, and pension products. In the direct marketing channel, we
work with more than 60 sponsors and have a network of more than 1,300 telesales representatives selling mainly accident   health and individual life products directly to consumers. We currently work with approximately 2,900 active brokers
with registered sales of group and individual life, accident   health, group medical, dental and pension products. Worksite marketing in Mexico has over 3,200 captive agents.   
    Asia        Japan s multi-channel distribution strategy consists of captive agents, independent agents, brokers, bancassurance, and direct marketing. While face-to-face channels continue to be core to
Japan s business, other channels, including bancassurance and direct marketing, have become a critical part of Japan s distribution strategy. Our Japan operation has maintained its position in bancassurance due to its strong distribution
relationship with Japan s mega banks, trust banks and various regional banks, as well as with the Japan Post. The direct marketing channel is supported by an industry-leading marketing platform, state-of-the-art call center infrastructure and
its own campaign management system.      Our Japan operation has approximately 5,400 captive agents, 10,100
independent agents, 75 bancassurance relationships, including Japan Post, and 170 direct marketing sponsors.      Elsewhere in Asia, distribution strategies differ by country but generally utilize a combination of captive agents, bancassurance relationships and direct marketing. Agency sales are achieved through a
force of approximately 25,900 agents and managers (which includes approximately 1,500 agents and managers related to our operating joint venture in China) and a growing force of independent general agents. Bancassurance is a growing channel with
approximately 60 relationships, and approximately 25 programs providing access to thousands of bank customers.   
         12   

Table of Contents  

Throughout the region, our Asia operation leverages its expertise in direct marketing operations management to conduct its own campaigns and provide those direct marketing capabilities to
third-party sponsors.      While not a significant part of the region s overall business, sales of group life
and pension business are primarily achieved through independent brokers and an employee sales force.        EMEA
       Our EMEA operations cover a wide geographical region from the developed markets of western Europe to
the emerging markets of central and eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Our operations in central and eastern Europe employ a multi-channel distribution strategy, which includes significant face to face channels, built on a strong captive
agency force of more than 3,800 agents, and relationships with more than 200 independent brokers and third-party multi-level agency networks. We have distribution relationships with more than 90 banks and other financial and non-financial
institutions, as well as a fast growing direct marketing channel. This EMEA region also has a group/corporate business direct sales force of more than 130 spanning all geographies.   
  Similarly, in our Middle East and Africa operations, products are distributed via a variety of channels including
approximately 1,500 agents, bancassurance, group brokers and direct marketing. Agency distribution is our primary distribution channel. Bancassurance is a growing channel with approximately 55 relationships providing access to thousands of bank
customers.      Our businesses in western Europe also have a multi-channel distribution strategy, including
independent financial advisors, brokers, captive agents, direct marketing, banks and financial institutions. Our U.K. operation has built a strong position in the U.K. independent advisor sector with a focus on variable annuities. Our U.K. operation
also has a growing group risk business serving small and medium sized employers and an agency sales force of approximately 850 agents which distributes accident   health and term life products.   
     Policyholder Liabilities    
  We establish, and carry as liabilities, actuarially determined amounts that are calculated to meet our policy obligations
when a policy matures or is surrendered, an insured dies or becomes disabled or upon the occurrence of other covered events, or to provide for future annuity payments. Our liabilities for future policy benefits and claims are established based on
estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. For life insurance and annuity products, we calculate these liabilities based on assumptions and estimates, including estimated premiums to be received over the
assumed life of the policy, the timing of the event covered by the insurance policy, the amount of benefits or claims to be paid and the investment returns on the investments we make with the premiums we receive. We establish liabilities for claims
and benefits based on assumptions and estimates of losses and liabilities incurred. Amounts for actuarial liabilities are computed and reported in the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP. For more details on policyholder
liabilities see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates   Liability for Future Policy Benefits  and  Management s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Policyholder Liabilities.       Pursuant
to state insurance laws and country regulators, MetLife, Inc. s insurance subsidiaries establish statutory reserves, reported as liabilities, to meet their obligations on their respective policies. These statutory reserves are established in
amounts sufficient to meet policy and contract obligations, when taken together with expected future premiums and interest at assumed rates. Statutory reserves and actuarial liabilities for future policy benefits generally differ based on accounting
guidance.      The New York Insurance Law and regulations require certain MetLife entities to submit to the New
York Superintendent of Insurance or other state insurance departments, with each annual report, an opinion and memorandum of a  qualified actuary  that the statutory reserves and related actuarial amounts recorded in support of specified
policies and contracts, and the assets supporting such statutory reserves and related actuarial   
         13   

Table of Contents  

amounts, make adequate provision for their statutory liabilities with respect to these obligations. See    U.S. Regulation   Insurance Regulation   Policy and Contract Reserve
Adequacy Analysis.       Insurance regulators in many of the non-U.S. countries in which MetLife operates
require certain MetLife entities to prepare a sufficiency analysis of the reserves presented in the locally required regulatory financial statements, and to submit that analysis to the regulatory authorities. See    International
Regulation.          Underwriting and Pricing    
    Underwriting        Underwriting generally involves an evaluation of applications by a professional staff of underwriters and actuaries, who determine the type and the amount of risk that we are willing to accept. We employ
detailed underwriting policies, guidelines and procedures designed to assist the underwriter to properly assess and quantify risks before issuing policies to qualified applicants or groups.   
  Insurance underwriting considers not only an applicant s medical history, but also other factors such as financial
profile, foreign travel, vocations and alcohol, drug and tobacco use. Group underwriting generally evaluates the risk characteristics of each prospective insured group, although with certain voluntary products and for certain coverages, members of a
group may be underwritten on an individual basis. We generally perform our own underwriting; however, certain policies are reviewed by intermediaries under guidelines established by us. Generally, we are not obligated to accept any risk or group of
risks from, or to issue a policy or group of policies to, any employer or intermediary. Requests for coverage are reviewed on their merits and a policy is not issued unless the particular risk or group has been examined and approved by our
underwriters.      The underwriting conducted by our remote underwriting offices and intermediaries, as well as
our corporate underwriting office, are subject to periodic quality assurance reviews to maintain high-standards of underwriting and consistency. Such offices are also subject to periodic external audits by reinsurers with whom we do business.
     We have established senior level oversight of the underwriting process that facilitates quality sales and
serves the needs of our customers, while supporting our financial strength and business objectives. Our goal is to achieve the underwriting, mortality and morbidity levels reflected in the assumptions in our product pricing. This is accomplished by
determining and establishing underwriting policies, guidelines, philosophies and strategies that are competitive and suitable for the customer, the agent and us.   
  For our property   casualty business, our underwriting function has six principal aspects: evaluating potential
voluntary and worksite employer accounts and independent agencies; establishing guidelines for the binding of risks; reviewing coverage bound by agents; underwriting potential insureds, on a case by case basis, presented by agents outside the scope
of their binding authority; pursuing information necessary in certain cases to enable issuance of a policy within our guidelines; and ensuring that renewal policies continue to be written at rates commensurate with risk.   
  Subject to very few exceptions, agents in each of the distribution channels for the Americas business, excluding Latin
America, have binding authority for risks which fall within our published underwriting guidelines. Risks falling outside the underwriting guidelines may be submitted for approval to the underwriting department; alternatively, agents in such a
situation may call the underwriting department to obtain authorization to bind the risk themselves. In most states, we generally have the right within a specified period (usually the first 60 days) to cancel any policy.   
    Pricing        Pricing reflects our corporate underwriting standards, which are consistent for our global businesses. Product pricing is based on the expected payout of benefits calculated through the use of assumptions
for mortality,   
         14   

Table of Contents  

morbidity, expenses, persistency and investment returns, as well as certain macroeconomic factors, such as inflation. Investment-oriented products are priced based on various factors, which may
include investment return, expenses, persistency and optionality. For certain investment oriented products in the U.S. and certain business sold outside the U.S., pricing may include prospective and retrospective experience rating features.
Prospective experience rating involves the evaluation of past experience for the purpose of determining future premium rates and all prior year gains and losses are borne by us. Retrospective experience rating also involves the evaluation of past
experience for the purpose of determining the actual cost of providing insurance for the customer; however, the contract includes certain features that allow us to recoup certain losses or distribute certain gains back to the policyholder based on
actual prior years  experience.      Rates for group insurance and voluntary   worksite products
(with the exception of property   casualty products) are based on anticipated results for the book of business being underwritten. Renewals are generally reevaluated annually or biannually and are repriced to reflect actual experience on
such products. Products offered by Corporate Benefit Funding are priced on demand. Pricing reflects expected investment returns, as well as mortality, longevity and expense assumptions appropriate for each product. This business is generally
nonparticipating and illiquid, as policyholders have few or no options or contractual rights to cash values.   
  Rates for individual life insurance products are highly regulated and must be approved by the regulators of the
jurisdictions in which the product is sold. Generally such products are renewed annually and may include pricing terms that are guaranteed for a certain period of time. Individual disability income products are based on anticipated results for the
occupation being underwritten. Fixed and variable annuity products are also highly regulated and approved by the respective regulators. Such products generally include penalties for early withdrawals and policyholder benefit elections to tailor the
form of the product s benefits to the needs of the opting policyholder. We periodically reevaluate the costs associated with such options and will periodically adjust pricing levels on our guarantees. Further, from time to time, we may also
reevaluate the type and level of guarantee features currently being offered.      Rates for our major lines of
property   casualty insurance are based on our proprietary database, rather than relying on rating bureaus. We determine prices in part from a number of variables specific to each risk. The pricing of personal lines insurance products takes
into account, among other things, the expected frequency and severity of losses, the costs of providing coverage (including the costs of acquiring policyholders and administering policy benefits and other administrative and overhead costs such as
reinsurance), competitive factors and profit considerations. The major pricing variables for personal lines insurance include characteristics of the insured property, such as age, make and model or construction type, as well as characteristics of
the insureds, such as driving record and loss experience, and the insured s personal financial management. Our ability to set and change rates is subject to regulatory oversight.   
  As a condition of our license to do business in each state, we, like all other personal lines insurers, are required to
write or share the cost of private passenger automobile and homeowners insurance for higher risk individuals who would otherwise be unable to obtain such insurance. This  involuntary  market, also called the  shared market,  is
governed by the applicable laws and regulations of each state, and policies written in this market are generally written at rates higher than standard rates and typically afford less coverage.   
     Reinsurance Activity    
  We enter into reinsurance agreements primarily as a purchaser of reinsurance for our various insurance products and also
as a provider of reinsurance for some insurance products issued by third parties. We participate in reinsurance activities in order to limit losses, minimize exposure to significant risks, and provide additional capacity for future growth. We enter
into various agreements with reinsurers that cover individual risks, group risks or defined blocks of business, primarily on a coinsurance, yearly renewable term, excess or catastrophe excess basis. These reinsurance agreements spread risk and
minimize the effect of losses. The extent of each risk retained by us depends on our evaluation of the specific risk, subject, in certain circumstances, to maximum   
         15   

Table of Contents  

retention limits based on the characteristics of coverages. We also cede first dollar mortality risk under certain contracts. In addition to reinsuring mortality risk, we reinsure other risks, as
well as specific coverages. We obtain reinsurance for capital requirement purposes and also when the economic impact of the reinsurance agreement makes it appropriate to do so.   
  Under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, the reinsurer agrees to reimburse us for the ceded amount in the event a
claim is paid. Cessions under reinsurance agreements do not discharge our obligations as the primary insurer. In the event that reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, reinsurance recoverable balances
could become uncollectible.      We reinsure our business through a diversified group of well-capitalized, highly
rated reinsurers. We analyze recent trends in arbitration and litigation outcomes in disputes, if any, with our reinsurers. We monitor ratings and evaluate the financial strength of our reinsurers by analyzing their financial statements. In
addition, the reinsurance recoverable balance due from each reinsurer is evaluated as part of the overall monitoring process. Recoverability of reinsurance recoverable balances is evaluated based on these analyses. We generally secure large
reinsurance recoverable balances with various forms of collateral, including secured trusts, funds withheld accounts and irrevocable letters of credit. Additionally, we enter into reinsurance agreements for risk and capital management purposes with
several affiliated captive reinsurers. The majority of such reinsurance activities within the affiliated captive reinsurers are eliminated in consolidation.        Americas (excluding Latin America)        For our Retail
Life   Other insurance products, we have historically reinsured the mortality risk primarily on an excess of retention basis or on a quota share basis. We currently reinsure 90% of the mortality risk in excess of $2 million for most
products and reinsure up to 90% of the mortality risk for certain other products. In addition to reinsuring mortality risk as described above, we reinsure other risks, as well as specific coverages. Placement of reinsurance is done primarily on an
automatic basis and also on a facultative basis for risks with specified characteristics. On a case by case basis, we may retain up to $20 million per life and reinsure 100% of amounts in excess of the amount we retain. We evaluate our
reinsurance programs routinely and may increase or decrease our retention at any time.      For our Retail
Annuities business, we reinsure a portion of the living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with our variable annuities. Under these reinsurance agreements, we pay a reinsurance premium generally based on fees associated with the
guarantees collected from policyholders, and receive reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account values, subject to certain limitations.      For our Corporate Benefit Funding segment, we have periodically engaged in reinsurance activities, as considered appropriate.   
  For our property   casualty business within both the Retail and Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits
segments, we purchase reinsurance to manage our exposure to large losses (primarily catastrophe losses) and to protect statutory surplus. We cede losses and premiums based upon the exposure of the policies subject to reinsurance. To manage exposure
to large property   casualty losses, we purchase property catastrophe, casualty and property per risk excess of loss reinsurance protection.      For other policies, we generally retain most of the risk and cede particular risks on certain client arrangements.        Latin America, Asia and EMEA        For certain life
insurance products, we currently reinsure risks in excess of $5 million to external reinsurers on a yearly renewable term basis. We may also reinsure certain risks with external reinsurers depending upon the nature of the risk and local
regulatory requirements.   
         16   

Table of Contents  

   For selected large corporate clients, we reinsure group employee benefits or
credit insurance business with various client-affiliated reinsurance companies, covering policies issued to the employees or customers of the clients. Additionally, we cede and assume risk with other insurance companies when either company requires
a business partner with the appropriate local licensing to issue certain types of policies in certain countries. In these cases, the assuming company typically underwrites the risks, develops the products and assumes most or all of the risk.
     We also have reinsurance agreements in-force that reinsure a portion of the living and death benefit
guarantees issued in connection with variable annuity products. Under these agreements, we pay reinsurance fees associated with the guarantees collected from policyholders, and receive reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account
values, subject to certain limitations.        Corporate   Other     
  We reinsure through 100% quota share reinsurance agreements certain run-off LTC and workers  compensation business
written by MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut ( MICC ), a subsidiary of MetLife, Inc.   
  Corporate   Other also has a reinsurance agreement in-force to reinsure the living and death benefit guarantees
issued in connection with certain variable annuity products. Under this agreement, we receive reinsurance fees associated with the guarantees collected from policyholders, and provide reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account
values, subject to certain limitations.        Catastrophe Coverage     
  We have exposure to catastrophes which could contribute to significant fluctuations in our results of operations. For the
Americas, excluding Latin America, we also use excess of retention and quota share reinsurance agreements to provide greater diversification of risk and minimize exposure to larger risks. Currently, for Latin America, Asia and EMEA, we purchase
catastrophe coverage to insure risks within certain countries deemed by management to be exposed to the greatest catastrophic risks.        Reinsurance Recoverables        For information regarding
ceded reinsurance recoverable balances, included in premiums, reinsurance and other receivables in the consolidated balance sheets, see Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
     U.S. Regulation         Insurance Regulation        In the United States,
insurance is principally regulated by the states, with the federal government playing a limited role. Insurance regulation generally aims at supervising and regulating insurers individually rather than on a group-wide basis, with the goal of
protecting policyholders and ensuring that each insurance company remains solvent.      Each of MetLife s
insurance subsidiaries operating in the United States is licensed and regulated in each U.S. jurisdiction where it conducts insurance business. The extent of such regulation varies, but most jurisdictions have laws and regulations governing the
financial aspects and business conduct of insurers. State laws in the U.S. grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things:   

licensing companies and agents to transact business;      

calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements;      
         17   

Table of Contents  

mandating certain insurance benefits;          

regulating certain premium rates;          

reviewing and approving policy forms;          

regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution
arrangements and payment of inducements, and identifying and paying to the states benefits and other property that is not claimed by the owners;          

regulating advertising;          

protecting privacy;          

establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards;      

fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity
contracts;          

adopting and enforcing suitability standards with respect to the sale of annuities and other insurance products;      

approving changes in control of insurance companies;      

restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; and      

regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments.      
  Each insurance subsidiary is required to file reports, generally including detailed annual financial statements, with
insurance regulatory authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which it does business, and its operations and accounts are subject to periodic examination by such authorities. These subsidiaries must also file, and in many jurisdictions and in
some lines of insurance obtain regulatory approval for, rules, rates and forms relating to the insurance written in the jurisdictions in which they operate.      State and federal insurance and securities regulatory authorities and other state law enforcement agencies and attorneys general from time to time make inquiries regarding compliance by MetLife, Inc. and
its insurance subsidiaries with insurance, securities and other laws and regulations regarding the conduct of our insurance and securities businesses. We cooperate with such inquiries and take corrective action when warranted. See Note 21 of
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.        Holding Company Regulation     
  MetLife, Inc. and its U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation under the insurance holding company laws
of various U.S. jurisdictions. The insurance holding company laws and regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally require a controlled insurance company (insurers that are subsidiaries of insurance holding companies) to
register with state regulatory authorities and to file with those authorities certain reports, including information concerning its capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions and general business operations.
     State insurance statutes also typically place restrictions and limitations on the amount of dividends or
other distributions payable by insurance company subsidiaries to their parent companies, as well as on transactions between an insurer and its affiliates. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   MetLife, Inc.   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Dividends from Subsidiaries.          Guaranty Associations and Similar Arrangements         Most of the U.S. jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business require life and property   casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to
participate in guaranty associations,   
         18   

Table of Contents  

which are organized to pay certain contractual insurance benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These associations levy assessments, up to
prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. Some states
permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets.      In the past
five years, the aggregate assessments levied against MetLife have not been material. We have established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that we consider adequate. See Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information on the insolvency assessments.         Insurance Regulatory Examinations      
  As part of their regulatory oversight process, state insurance departments conduct periodic detailed examinations of the
books, records, accounts, and business practices of insurers domiciled in their states. State insurance departments also have the authority to conduct examinations of non-domiciliary insurers that are licensed in their states. Except as otherwise
disclosed in Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, during the three-year period ended December 31, 2012, MetLife has not received any material adverse findings resulting from state insurance department examinations of
its insurance subsidiaries conducted in respect of this three-year period.      Regulatory authorities in a small
number of states, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ( FINRA ) and, occasionally, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), have had investigations or inquiries relating to sales of individual life insurance
policies or annuities or other products by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ), MetLife Securities, Inc., New England Life Insurance Company, New England Securities Corporation, General American Life Insurance Company, Walnut
Street Securities, Inc., MICC and Tower Square Securities, Inc. These investigations often focus on the conduct of particular financial services representatives and the sale of unregistered or unsuitable products or the misuse of client assets. Over
the past several years, these and a number of investigations by other regulatory authorities were resolved for monetary payments and certain other relief, including restitution payments. We may continue to resolve investigations in a similar manner.
     In addition, increased scrutiny has been given to claims payment practices by insurance companies. See Note
21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding retained asset accounts and unclaimed property inquiries and related litigation.   
  State insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ) are also
investigating the use of affiliated captive reinsurers or off-shore entities to reinsure insurance risks. Like many life insurance companies, we utilize captive reinsurers to satisfy certain reserve requirements related to universal life and term
life insurance policies. We also use captive reinsurers to aggregate variable annuity risks under a single legal entity, which allows us to consolidate hedging and other risk management programs. If the New York State Department of Financial
Services (the  Department of Financial Services ) or other state insurance regulators determine to restrict our use of captive reinsurers, it could limit our ability to write those products or hedge the associated risks efficiently, or
lead us to increase prices on those products. For more information on our use of captive reinsurers see Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  The NAIC is reviewing life insurers  use of non-variable separate accounts that are insulated (where assets of the
separate account equal to the reserves and other contract liabilities with respect to the account may not be charged with liabilities arising out of the general account in the event of an insurance company insolvency). The NAIC s review might
lead to a recommendation against the allowance of insulation for certain of our separate account products, particularly in the institutional markets. We cannot predict what, if any, changes may result from this review and possible recommendations.
If the Department of Financial Services or other state insurance regulators change applicable laws or regulations in accordance with such recommendation, our use of insulation for certain products could be impaired and our ability to compete
effectively or do business in certain markets   
         19   

Table of Contents  

may be adversely affected. In addition, our financial results may also be adversely affected.      Finally, in January 2013, MetLife was the subject of a Supervisory College meeting. The meeting, which was chaired by the Department of Financial Services, was attended by MetLife s key U.S. and
international insurance regulators. A Supervisory College is a group of key insurance regulators that is formed to facilitate information sharing and to enhance the member regulators  understanding of an insurance group s risk profile.
        Policy and Contract Reserve Adequacy Analysis      
  Annually, our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are required to conduct an analysis of the adequacy of all statutory
reserves. In each case, a qualified actuary must submit an opinion which states that the statutory reserves make adequate provision, according to accepted actuarial standards of practice, for the anticipated cash flows required by the contractual
obligations and related expenses of the U.S. insurance subsidiary. The adequacy of the statutory reserves is considered in light of the assets held by the insurer with respect to such reserves and related actuarial items including, but not limited
to, the investment earnings on such assets, and the consideration anticipated to be received and retained under the related policies and contracts. The Company may increase reserves in order to submit an opinion without qualification. Since
inception of this requirement, our U.S. insurance subsidiaries which are required by their states of domicile to provide these opinions have provided such opinions without qualifications.   
     NAIC         The NAIC is an organization, the mandate of which is to benefit state insurance regulatory authorities and consumers by promulgating model insurance laws and regulations for adoption by the states. The
NAIC provides standardized insurance industry accounting and reporting guidance through its Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual (the  Manual ). However, statutory accounting principles continue to be established by individual state
laws, regulations and permitted practices. Changes to the Manual or modifications by the various state insurance departments may impact the statutory capital and surplus of MetLife, Inc. s U.S. insurance subsidiaries.   
  The NAIC currently has in place its  Solvency Modernization Initiative,  which is designed to review the U.S.
financial regulatory system and all aspects of financial regulation affecting insurance companies. Though broad in scope, the NAIC has stated that the Solvency Modernization Initiative will focus on: (1) capital requirements; (2) corporate
governance and risk management; (3) group supervision; (4) statutory accounting and financial reporting; and (5) reinsurance. This initiative has resulted in the recent adoption by the NAIC of the NAIC Risk Management and Own Risk and
Solvency Assessment model act which, following enactment at the state level, will require larger insurers, at least annually beginning in 2015, to assess the adequacy of their and their group s risk management and current and future solvency
position. We cannot predict the additional capital requirements or compliance costs these requirements may impose.      In addition, in December 2012, the NAIC approved a new valuation manual containing a principles-based approach to life insurance company reserves. Principles-based reserving is designed to tailor the
reserving process to specific products to result in more precise reserving. The valuation manual containing the principles-based approach will not become effective unless it is enacted into law by a minimum number of state legislatures. A number of
insurance commissioners, including New York, have opposed the current form of the principles-based approach. The NAIC has formed a working group to study and address these concerns.   
     Surplus and Capital; Risk-Based Capital     
  Insurers are required to maintain their capital and surplus at or above minimum levels. Regulators have discretionary
authority, in connection with the continued licensing of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries, to limit or prohibit an insurer s sales to policyholders if, in their judgment, the regulators determine that such insurer has not maintained the minimum
surplus or capital or that the further transaction of business will be hazardous to policyholders. Most of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital ( RBC ) requirements and report their RBC based on a formula
calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium and statutory   
         20   

Table of Contents  

reserve items, as well as taking into account the risk characteristics of the insurer. The major categories of risk involved are asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk, market risk and
business risk. The formula is used as an early warning regulatory tool to identify possible inadequately capitalized insurers for purposes of initiating regulatory action, and not as a means to rank insurers generally. State insurance laws provide
insurance regulators the authority to require various actions by, or take various actions against, insurers whose RBC ratio does not meet or exceed certain RBC levels. As of the date of the most recent annual statutory financial statements filed
with insurance regulators, the RBC of each of our subsidiaries subject to these requirements was in excess of each of those RBC levels. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Capital.       The NAIC will examine RBC
requirements in 2013. We are not aware of any potential NAIC actions that would have a material impact on the RBC of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries .           Regulation of Investments         Each of our
U.S. insurance subsidiaries is subject to state laws and regulations that require diversification of our investment portfolios and limit the amount of investments in certain asset categories, such as below investment grade fixed income
securities, equity real estate, other equity investments, and derivatives. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations would cause investments exceeding regulatory limitations to be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring
surplus and, in some instances, would require divestiture of such non-qualifying investments. We believe that the investments made by each of MetLife, Inc. s U.S. insurance subsidiaries complied, in all material respects, with such regulations
at December 31, 2012. See    Federal Initiatives  for information regarding the impact on our investments of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ( Dodd-Frank ).   
     Regulation of Over-the-Counter Derivatives      
  Dodd-Frank includes a new framework of regulation of the over-the-counter ( OTC ) derivatives markets which
will require clearing of certain types of transactions currently traded OTC and is likely to impose additional costs, including new capital, reporting and margin requirements and additional regulation on the Company. The derivative clearing
requirements of Dodd-Frank could increase the cost of our risk mitigation. For example, increased margin requirements, combined with restrictions on securities that will qualify as eligible collateral, could reduce our liquidity and require
increased holdings of cash and highly liquid securities with lower yields causing a reduction in income. Centralized clearing of certain OTC derivatives exposes MetLife, Inc. to the risk of a default by a clearing member or clearinghouse with
respect to our cleared derivative transactions. MetLife, Inc. uses derivatives to mitigate a wide range of risks in connection with its businesses, including the impact of increased benefit exposures from our annuity products that offer guaranteed
benefits. We have always been subject to the risk that hedging and other management procedures might prove ineffective in reducing the risks to which insurance policies expose us or that unanticipated policyholder behavior or mortality, combined
with adverse market events, could produce economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed. Any such losses could be increased by higher costs of writing derivatives (including customized derivatives) and the reduced
availability of customized derivatives that might result from the enactment and implementation of Dodd-Frank.   
     Federal Initiatives         Although the insurance business in the United States is primarily regulated by the states, federal initiatives often have an impact on our business in a variety of ways. From time to time, federal
measures are proposed which may significantly affect the insurance business. These areas include financial services regulation, securities regulation, derivatives regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform
legislation and taxation. In addition, various forms of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal charter for insurance companies.
  
         21   

Table of Contents  

   Dodd-Frank effected the most far-reaching overhaul of financial regulation
in the U.S. in decades. The full impact of Dodd-Frank on us will depend on the numerous rulemaking initiatives required or permitted by Dodd-Frank and the various studies mandated by Dodd-Frank, many of which remain to be completed.   
  Dodd-Frank established the Federal Insurance Office within the Department of the Treasury, which has the authority to
participate in the negotiations of international insurance agreements with foreign regulators for the U.S., as well as to collect information about the insurance industry and recommend prudential standards. While not having a general supervisory or
regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the director of this office performs various functions with respect to insurance, including serving as a non-voting member of the Financial Stability Oversight Council ( FSOC ) and
making recommendations to the FSOC regarding insurers to be designated for more stringent regulation. The director is also required to submit a report to Congress regarding how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the
United States, including by increasing national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by the states.      Dodd-Frank also includes provisions that may impact the investments and investment activities of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including the federal regulation of such activities. Until the various
final regulations are promulgated pursuant to Dodd-Frank, and perhaps for some time thereafter, the full impact of Dodd-Frank on such activities will remain unclear. Such provisions and regulations include, but are not limited to, the regulation of
the OTC derivatives markets and prohibition or regulation of proprietary trading and sponsoring or investing in hedge funds or private equity funds by certain kinds of financial institutions (commonly known as the Volcker Rule). See   
Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI   Volcker Rule.         Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI
       MetLife, Inc. has de-registered as a bank holding company. As a result, MetLife, Inc. is no longer
regulated as a bank holding company or subject to enhanced supervision and prudential standards as a bank holding company with assets of $50 billion or more. However, if, in the future, MetLife, Inc. is designated by the FSOC as a non-bank
systemically important financial institution ( non-bank SIFI ), it could once again be subject to regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve Board ) and the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York (collectively, with the Federal Reserve Board, the  Federal Reserve ) and to enhanced supervision and prudential standards. See    Enhanced Prudential Standards.    
  The FSOC issued final rules in April 2012, outlining the process it will follow and the criteria it will use to assess
whether a non-bank financial company should be subject to enhanced supervision by the Federal Reserve as a non-bank SIFI. The FSOC will follow a three-stage process. In Stage 1, a set of uniform quantitative metrics will be applied to a broad group
of non-bank financial companies in order to identify non-bank financial companies for further evaluation. If a non-bank financial company, such as MetLife, Inc., meets the total consolidated assets threshold and at least one of the other five
quantitative thresholds used in the first stage, the FSOC will continue with two stages of further analysis using additional sources of data and qualitative and quantitative factors. As of December 31, 2012, MetLife, Inc. met the total
consolidated assets threshold and at least one of the other Stage 1 quantitative thresholds. The International Association of Insurance Supervisors ( IAIS ) has been tasked by the Financial Stability Board ( FSB ), an
international entity established to coordinate, develop and promote effective regulatory, supervisory and other financial sector policies in the interest of financial stability, with devising a process for designating global systemically important
insurers ( G-SIIs ) and has proposed an assessment methodology. See    International Regulation.       If MetLife, Inc. is designated as a non-bank SIFI, it will be subject to a number of Dodd-Frank requirements that are also applicable to bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more.
        Enhanced Prudential Standards      
  Currently, the Federal Reserve Board is considering how to apply the enhanced prudential standards required by Dodd-Frank
to non-bank SIFIs. The Federal Reserve Board has proposed a set of prudential standards that would apply to non-bank SIFIs, as well as bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more, but has not
  
         22   

Table of Contents  

adopted final rules for most of these standards. As proposed, these enhanced prudential standards would impose (i) enhanced risk-based capital requirements, (ii) leverage limits,
(iii) liquidity requirements, (iv) single counterparty exposure limits, (v) governance requirements for risk management, (vi) stress test requirements, and (vii) special debt-to-equity limits for certain companies, and would
establish a procedure for early remediation based on the failure to comply with these requirements. The Federal Reserve Board has stated its intention to take a tailored approach to applying the prudential standards to non-bank SIFIs, but has not
provided any details on how it intends to do so.      The stress testing requirements have been implemented and
require non-bank SIFIs (as well as bank holding companies with $50 billion or more of assets) to undergo three stress tests each year: an annual supervisory stress test conducted by the Federal Reserve Board and two company-run stress tests (an
annual test which coincides with the timing of the supervisory stress test, and a mid-cycle test). Companies will be required to take the results of the stress tests into consideration in their annual capital planning and resolution and recovery
planning. If MetLife, Inc. is designated by the FSOC as a non-bank SIFI, its competitive position and its ability to pay dividends, repurchase common stock or other securities or engage in other transactions that could affect its capital or need for
capital could be adversely affected by any additional capital requirements that might be imposed as a result of the enactment of Dodd-Frank, enhanced prudential standards, stress testing and other regulatory initiatives.   
  Non-bank SIFIs would also be required to submit a resolution plan setting forth how the company could be resolved under
the Bankruptcy Code in the event of material financial distress. Resolution plans would have to be resubmitted annually and promptly following any event, occurrence, change in conditions or circumstances, or other change that results in, or could
reasonably be foreseen to have, a material effect on the resolution plan. A failure to submit a  credible  resolution plan could result in the imposition of a variety of measures, including additional capital, leverage, or liquidity
requirements, and forced divestiture of assets or operations.      In addition, if it were determined that
MetLife, Inc. posed a substantial threat to U.S. financial stability, the applicable federal regulators would have the right to require it to take one or more other mitigating actions to reduce that risk, including limiting its ability to merge with
or acquire another company, terminating activities, restricting its ability to offer financial products or requiring it to sell assets or off-balance sheet items to unaffiliated entities. Enhanced standards would also permit, but not require,
regulators to establish requirements with respect to contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures and short-term debt limits. These standards are described as being more stringent than those otherwise imposed on bank holding companies; however,
the Federal Reserve Board is permitted to apply them on an institution-by-institution basis, depending on its determination of the institution s level of risk.         Orderly Liquidation Authority         Under the
provisions of Dodd-Frank relating to the resolution or liquidation of certain types of financial institutions, if MetLife, Inc. were to become insolvent or were in danger of defaulting on its obligations, it could be compelled to undergo liquidation
with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) as receiver. For this new regime to be applicable, a number of determinations would have to be made, including that a default by the affected company would have serious adverse
effects on financial stability in the U.S. If the FDIC were to be appointed as the receiver for such a company, the liquidation of that company would occur under the provisions of the new liquidation authority, and not under the Bankruptcy
Code. The FDIC s purpose under the liquidation regime is to mitigate the systemic risks the institution s failure poses, which is different from that of a bankruptcy trustee under the Bankruptcy Code. In such a liquidation, the holders of
such company s debt could in certain respects be treated differently than under the Bankruptcy Code. As required by Dodd-Frank, the FDIC has established rules relating to the priority of creditors  claims and the potentially dissimilar
treatment of similarly situated creditors. These provisions could apply to some financial institutions whose outstanding debt securities we hold in our investment portfolios. Dodd-Frank also provides for the assessment of bank holding companies with
assets of $50 billion or more, non-bank SIFIs, and other financial companies with assets of $50 billion or more to cover the costs of liquidating any financial company subject to the new liquidation authority.   
         23   

Table of Contents  

      Volcker Rule      
  Under the Volcker Rule, Dodd-Frank restricts the ability of insured depository institutions and of companies that control
an insured depository institution, and their affiliates, to engage in proprietary trading and to sponsor or invest in funds (hedge funds and private equity funds) that rely on certain exemptions from the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended
(the  Investment Company Act ). Because MetLife Bank s FDIC insurance has been terminated, MetLife, Inc. and its affiliates will not be subject to the bans on proprietary trading and fund activities under the Volcker Rule. However,
because the Volcker Rule nevertheless imposes additional capital requirements and quantitative limits on such trading and activities by a non-bank SIFI, MetLife, Inc. and its affiliates could be subject to such requirements and limits were MetLife,
Inc. to be designated a non-bank SIFI. Regulations defining and governing such requirements and limits on non-bank SIFIs have not been proposed. Commencing from the date of designation, a non-bank SIFI will have a two-year period, subject to further
extension by the Federal Reserve Board, to conform to any such requirements and limits. Subject to safety and soundness determinations as part of rulemaking that could require additional capital requirements and quantitative limits, Dodd-Frank
provides that the exemptions under the Volcker Rule also are available to exempt any additional capital requirements and quantitative limits on non-bank SIFIs. Until the rulemaking is complete, it is unclear whether MetLife, Inc., were it designated
as a non-bank SIFI, may have to alter any of its future activities to comply, including continuing to invest in private investment funds for its general accounts or to issue certain insurance products backed by its separate accounts.   
     Consumer Protection Laws         Numerous other federal and state laws also affect MetLife, Inc. s earnings and activities, including federal and state consumer protection laws. As part of Dodd-Frank, Congress established the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ( CFPB ) to supervise and regulate institutions that provide certain financial products and services to consumers. Although the consumer financial services subject to the CFPB s jurisdiction
generally exclude insurance business of the kind in which we engage, the CFPB does have authority to regulate non-insurance consumer services we provide.        Banking Regulation        MetLife, Inc. s
subsidiary, MetLife Bank, a federally chartered, non-deposit taking, uninsured national banking association, is subject to a wide variety of banking laws, regulations and guidelines. Federal banking and consumer financial protection laws regulate
most aspects of the business of MetLife Bank, but certain state laws may apply as well. MetLife Bank is principally regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ) and the CFPB and secondarily by the Federal Reserve.
Federal banking laws and regulations address various aspects of MetLife Bank s business and operations with respect to, among other things, chartering to carry on business as a bank; the permissibility of certain activities; maintaining minimum
capital ratios; capital management in relation to the bank s assets; dividend payments and repurchases of securities, including common stock; safety and soundness standards; loan loss and other related liabilities; liquidity; financial
reporting and disclosure standards; counterparty credit concentration; restrictions on related party and affiliate transactions; lending limits; payment of interest; unfair or deceptive acts or practices; privacy; and relationships with MetLife,
Inc. and potentially with other investors in connection with a change of control of MetLife Bank. Dodd-Frank established a statutory standard for Federal preemption of state consumer financial protection laws, which standard will require national
banks to comply with many state consumer financial protection laws that previously were considered preempted by Federal law. Federal and state banking regulators regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to banks and their
products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the bank.         Change of Control and Restrictions on Mergers and Acquisitions         As a result of MetLife, Inc. s ownership of MetLife Bank, approval from the OCC would be required in connection with a change of control (generally presumed upon the acquisition of 10% or more of any
class of voting securities) of MetLife, Inc. If MetLife, Inc. were designated as a non-bank SIFI, it would need to obtain Federal Reserve approval before acquiring, merging or consolidating with a financial company having more than $10 billion
of assets or acquiring 5% or more of any voting class of securities of a bank or bank holding company.   
         24   

Table of Contents  

     Securities, Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation     
  Some of our subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance products are subject to
extensive regulation under the federal securities laws administered by the SEC. These subsidiaries issue variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate accounts that are registered with the SEC as investment
companies under the Investment Company Act. Each registered separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is itself a registered investment company under the Investment Company Act.
In addition, the variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies issued by these registered separate accounts are registered with the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Other subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as
broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), and are members of, and subject to regulation by, FINRA. Further, some of our subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers with the SEC under
the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and are also registered as investment advisers in various states, as applicable. Certain variable contract separate accounts sponsored by our subsidiaries are exempt from registration, but may be
subject to other provisions of the federal securities laws.      Federal and state securities regulatory
authorities and FINRA from time to time make inquiries and conduct examinations regarding compliance by MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries with securities and other laws and regulations. We cooperate with such inquiries and examinations and take
corrective action when warranted.      Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to
protect investors in the securities markets and generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations.
Dodd-Frank also authorizes the SEC to establish a standard of conduct applicable to brokers and dealers when providing personalized investment advice to retail and other customers. This standard of conduct would be to act in the best interest of the
customer without regard to the financial or other interest of the broker or dealer providing the advice. See  Risk Factors   Regulatory and Legal Risks   Changes in U.S Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations, and State
Insurance Regulations Regarding Suitability of Annuity Product Sales, May Affect Our Operations and Our Profitability.  We may also be subject to similar laws and regulations in the foreign countries in which we provide investment advisory
services, offer products similar to those described above, or conduct other activities.        Environmental Considerations
       As an owner and operator of real property, we are subject to extensive federal, state and local
environmental laws and regulations. Inherent in such ownership and operation is also the risk that there may be potential environmental liabilities and costs in connection with any required remediation of such properties. In addition, we hold equity
interests in companies that could potentially be subject to environmental liabilities. We routinely have environmental assessments performed with respect to real estate being acquired for investment and real property to be acquired through
foreclosure. We cannot provide assurance that unexpected environmental liabilities will not arise. However, based on information currently available to us, we believe that any costs associated with compliance with environmental laws and regulations
or any remediation of such properties will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.        Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ) Considerations        We provide products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to ERISA, or the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ). As such, our activities are subject
to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Code, including the requirement under ERISA that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries and the requirement under ERISA and the Code
that fiduciaries may not cause a covered plan to engage in prohibited transactions with persons who have certain relationships with respect to such plans. The applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code are subject to enforcement by the Department
of Labor ( DOL ), the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.   
         25   

Table of Contents  

   The prohibited transaction rules of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code
generally restrict the provision of investment advice to ERISA plans and participants and Individual Retirement Accounts ( IRAs ) if the investment recommendation results in fees paid to the individual advisor, his or her firm or their
affiliates that vary according to the investment recommendation chosen. In October 2011, the DOL issued final regulations that provide limited relief from these investment advice restrictions. If no additional relief is provided regarding these
investment advice restrictions, the ability of our affiliated broker-dealers and their registered representatives to provide investment advice to ERISA plans and participants, and with respect to IRAs, would likely be significantly restricted. Also,
the fee and revenue arrangements of certain advisory programs may be required to be revenue neutral, resulting in potential lost revenues for these broker-dealers and their affiliates.   
  Other proposed investment advice regulatory initiatives under ERISA also may negatively impact the current business model
of our broker-dealers. In particular, the DOL issued a proposed regulation in October 2010 that would, if adopted as proposed, significantly broaden the circumstances under which a person or entity providing investment advice with respect to ERISA
plans or IRAs would be deemed a fiduciary under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code. If adopted, the proposed regulations may make it easier for the DOL in enforcement actions, and for plaintiffs  attorneys in ERISA litigation, to attempt to
extend fiduciary status to advisors who would not be deemed fiduciaries under current regulations. In September 2011, the DOL announced it will re-propose these fiduciary definition regulations, and a new proposal is expected in 2013.   
  In addition, the DOL has issued a number of regulations recently that increase the level of disclosure that must be
provided to plan sponsors and participants. The participant disclosure regulations and the regulations which require service providers to disclose fee and other information to plan sponsors took effect in 2012. These ERISA disclosure requirements
will likely increase the regulatory and compliance burden upon us, resulting in increased costs.      In  John
Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company v. Harris Trust and Savings Bank (1993),  the U.S. Supreme Court held that certain assets in excess of amounts necessary to satisfy guaranteed obligations under a participating group annuity general
account contract are  plan assets.  Therefore, these assets are subject to certain fiduciary obligations under ERISA, which requires fiduciaries to perform their duties solely in the interest of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries.
On January 5, 2000, the Secretary of Labor issued final regulations indicating, in cases where an insurer has issued a policy backed by the insurer s general account to or for an employee benefit plan, the extent to which assets of the
insurer constitute plan assets for purposes of ERISA and the Code. The regulations apply only with respect to a policy issued by an insurer on or before December 31, 1998 ( Transition Policy ). No person will generally be liable under
ERISA or the Code for conduct occurring prior to July 5, 2001, where the basis of a claim is that insurance company general account assets constitute plan assets. An insurer issuing a new policy that is backed by its general account and is
issued to or for an employee benefit plan after December 31, 1998 will generally be subject to fiduciary obligations under ERISA, unless the policy is a guaranteed benefit policy.   
  The regulations indicate the requirements that must be met so that assets supporting a Transition Policy will not be
considered plan assets for purposes of ERISA and the Code. These requirements include detailed disclosures to be made to the employee benefits plan and the requirement that the insurer must permit the policyholder to terminate the policy on
90 day notice and receive without penalty, at the policyholder s option, either (i) the unallocated accumulated fund balance (which may be subject to market value adjustment) or (ii) a book value payment of such amount in annual
installments with interest. We have taken and continue to take steps designed to ensure compliance with these regulations.      We cannot predict what other proposals may be made, what legislation may be introduced or enacted or the impact of any such legislation on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
  
         26   

Table of Contents  

      International Regulation    
  Our international insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions
in which they are located or operate. This regulation includes minimum capital, solvency and operational requirements. The authority of our international operations to conduct business is subject to licensing requirements, permits and approvals, and
these authorizations are subject to modification and revocation. Periodic examinations of insurance company books and records, financial reporting requirements, market conduct examinations and policy filing requirements are among the techniques used
by regulators to supervise our non-U.S. insurance businesses. We also have investment and pension companies in certain foreign jurisdictions that provide mutual fund, pension and other financial products and services. Those entities are subject
to securities, investment, pension and other laws and regulations, and oversight by the relevant securities, pension and other authorities of the countries in which the companies operate. In some jurisdictions, some of our insurance products are
considered  securities  under local law and may be subject to local securities regulations and oversight by local securities regulators.      Our international operations are exposed to increased political, legal, financial, operational and other risks. A significant portion of our revenues is generated through operations in foreign
jurisdictions, including many countries in early stages of economic and political development. Our international operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators, such as through
nationalization or expropriation of assets, the imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies, changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation, political instability, dividend limitations,
price controls, changes in applicable currency, currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into
U.S. dollars or other currencies, as well as other adverse actions by foreign governmental authorities and regulators. This may also impact many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries. Changes in the laws and regulations that
affect them or their operations also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products. Such actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions. See  Risk Factors  
Risks Related to Our Business   Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our
Profitability.       Certain of our international insurance operations may be subject to assessments,
generally based on their proportionate share of business written in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations to policyholders and claimants resulting from the insolvency of insurance companies. We cannot predict the timing and scope of any
assessments that may be made in the future, which may materially affect the results of operations of our international insurance operations in particular quarterly or annual periods.   
  Annually, many of our international insurance operations are required to conduct an analysis of the sufficiency of all
statutory reserves. In most of those cases, a locally qualified actuary must submit an analysis of the likelihood that the reserves make good and sufficient provision for the associated contractual obligations and related expenses of the insurer.
Local regulatory and actuarial standards for this vary widely; the required implied certainty of the signing actuary s opinion varies equally widely.      Our insurance business throughout the European Economic Area is also subject to the evolving Solvency II insurance regulatory directive established by the European Parliament in 2009 to codify and
harmonize European Union insurance regulation. While this directive provides for new risk management practices, solvency capital standards and disclosure requirements, disagreement surrounding Omnibus II (legislation amending certain provisions of
Solvency II, including the implementation date) has created uncertainty regarding the ultimate content and effective date of this directive. The European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority ( EIOPA ) is developing final proposals
for standards and guidelines to be published once Omnibus II is finalized. Although the effective date of the directive is currently January 1, 2014, ongoing debate on Omnibus II has caused regulators to reassess their own implementation
strategies as Solvency II implementation is generally   
         27   

Table of Contents  

expected to be delayed until at least 2016. Since EIOPA and European Union member states have started to consider what aspects could be adopted during the next three years to continue the
development of a more risk-based prudential framework, while avoiding more controversial aspects of Solvency II (the debate on long-term guarantees), we may need to accelerate or adjust our implementation accordingly.   
  Our Solvency II program is governed by a steering committee comprised of senior management. Solvency II encompasses
solvency capital requirements, allows for both standard model and internal model calculations, requires a robust governance and risk management framework fully embedded in day-to-day decision making and greater quarterly and annual reporting
disclosures. As requirements are finalized by the regulators, capital requirements might be impacted in a number of jurisdictions. Compliance with these new capital standards may impact the level of capital required to be held at individual legal
entities. In addition, our legal entity structure throughout Europe may impact our capital requirements, risk management infrastructure and reporting by country. The efforts required to comply with these regulations may increase operating costs at
these entities.      As part of the global initiative to identify global systemically important financial
institutions, the FSB tasked the IAIS with devising an assessment methodology for designating G-SIIs. The methodology has yet to be finalized but is intended to identify those insurers whose distress or disorderly failure, because of their size,
complexity and interconnectedness, would cause significant disruption to the global financial system and economic activity. The proposed methodology has three steps: (i) data collection; (ii) assessment using a quantitative indicator-based
assessment (addressing five categories: size, extent of global activity, degree of interconnectedness within the financial system, amount of non-traditional and non-insurance activities and substitutability) and a more qualitative business segment
assessment; and (iii) supervisory judgment and validation process, including quantitative and qualitative assessments. Based on information obtained from the IAIS, the IAIS will make recommendations to the FSB in consultation with national
supervisory authorities. The FSB has stated that it expects to publish the first list of G-SIIs in April 2013. Any insurers identified as G-SIIs would be subject to additional policy measures. These policy measures were outlined in an October 2012
IAIS consultation paper and the IAIS has stated that it intends to finalize them within the first six months of 2013. Comments on the measures were submitted December 16, 2012. The proposed policy measures, which would need to be implemented by
legislation or regulation in relevant jurisdictions, include higher capital requirements (that could be applied both as an additional charge on activities causing systemic importance and as a group level charge), enhanced supervision (including more
detailed and frequent reporting, removal of barriers to orderly resolution of the G-SII and reduction of the G-SII s systemic risk over time). Enhanced supervision includes systemic risk reduction plans ( SRRPs ) that could require
separation of activities causing systemic importance into legally and financially self-sufficient entities. Under the proposed policy measures, designated G-SIIs would have 18 months to develop an SRRP and 18 months to implement it. It is possible
that if SRRP risk levels are met no additional capital will be required. If MetLife, Inc. were identified as a G-SII, its competitive position relative to other life insurers that were not so designated could be adversely affected.   
  We expect the scope and extent of regulation outside of the U.S., as well as regulatory oversight, generally to continue
to increase. The regulatory environment in the countries in which we operate and changes in laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See  Risk Factors   Risks Related to Our Business   Our International
Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability.    
    Japan        Our operations in Japan are subject to regulation and examination by Japan s Financial Services Agency ( FSA ). Our operations in Japan are required to file with the FSA annual reports for
each fiscal year (ending March 31) which include financial statements. These annual reports are not prepared on a U.S. GAAP basis. Similar to the U.S., Japanese law provides that insurers in Japan must maintain specified solvency standards for
the protection of policyholders and to support the financial strength of licensed insurers. As of December 31, 2012, the date of our most recent regulatory filing in Japan, the solvency margin ratio of our Japan operations was in excess of four
times the 200% solvency margin ratio that would require corrective action. Most Japanese life insurers maintain a solvency margin ratio well in excess of the legally mandated minimum.   
         28   

Table of Contents  

   A portion of the annual earnings of our Japan operations may be repatriated
each year, and may further be distributed to MetLife, Inc. as a dividend. We may determine not to repatriate profits from the Japan operations or to repatriate a reduced amount in order to maintain or improve the solvency margin of the Japan
operations or for other reasons. In addition, the FSA may limit or not permit profit repatriations or other transfers of funds to the U.S. if such transfers would be detrimental to the solvency or financial strength of our Japan operations or for
other reasons.      Our operations in Japan are subject to assessments to cover obligations to policyholders in
the event of insolvency of other insurance companies. Under the Japanese Insurance Business Law, all licensed life insurers in Japan are assessed on an annual basis by the Life Insurance Policyholders Protection Corporation of Japan. These
assessments are aggregated across all licensed life insurers in Japan and used to satisfy certain obligations to policyholders and claimants of insolvent life insurance companies. We cannot predict the amount of future assessments, which may
materially affect our results of operations in Japan in particular quarterly or annual periods.   
     Competition       We believe that competition faced by our segments is based on a number of factors, including service, product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business
capabilities and name recognition. We compete globally with other insurance companies, as well as non-insurance financial services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers, employer and other group
customers as well as agents and other distributors of insurance and investment products. Some of these companies offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to other insurance companies, have higher claims
paying ability ratings. In the U.S. and Japan, we compete with a large number of domestic and foreign-owned life insurance companies, many of which offer products in categories on which we focus. Elsewhere, we compete with the foreign insurance
operations of large U.S. insurers and with global insurance groups and local companies in particular areas in which they are active. Many of our group insurance products are underwritten annually and, accordingly, there is a risk that group
purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors rather than renewing coverage with us.   
  We believe that the continued volatility of the financial markets, its impact on the capital position of many
competitors, and subsequent actions by regulators and rating agencies have altered the competitive environment. In particular, we believe that these factors have highlighted financial strength as the most significant differentiator from the
perspective of some customers and certain distributors. We believe the Company is well positioned to compete in this environment. In particular, the Company distributes many of its individual products through other financial institutions such as
banks and broker-dealers. These distribution partners are currently placing greater emphasis on the financial strength of the company whose products they sell. In addition, the financial market turbulence has highlighted the extent of the risk
associated with certain variable annuity products and has led us, along with many companies in our industry, to re-examine the pricing and features of the products offered. The effects of current market conditions may also lead to consolidation in
the life insurance industry. Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of these conditions, we believe that the strongest companies will enjoy a competitive advantage as a result of the current circumstances.   
  We must attract and retain productive sales representatives to sell our insurance, annuities and investment products.
Insurance companies compete for sales representatives with demonstrated ability. We compete with other insurance companies for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services and compensation and product
features. See    Sales Distribution.  In selected global markets, we continue to undertake several initiatives to grow our career agency forces, while continuing to enhance the efficiency and production of our sales representatives.
These initiatives may not succeed in attracting and retaining productive agents. Sales of individual insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of operations and financial position could be materially adversely affected if we are
unsuccessful in attracting and retaining productive agents.   
         29   

Table of Contents  

   Numerous aspects of our business are subject to regulation. Legislative and
other changes affecting the regulatory environment can affect our competitive position within the life insurance industry and within the broader financial services industry.         Employees       At December 31,
2012, we had approximately 64,000 
employees. We believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory.         Executive Officers
      Set forth below is information regarding the executive officers of MetLife, Inc.:   

Name    
     
     Age    
     
     Position with MetLife and Business Experience     

Steven A. Kandarian   
     
  60  

Chairman of the Board (January 2012-present) and President and Chief Executive Officer (May 2011-present) of MetLife, Inc.    

Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer of MetLife, Inc. (April 2005-April 2011)    

Additional Experience : Executive director, Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (2001-2004); founder and
managing partner, Orion Capital Partners, where he managed a private equity fund specializing in venture capital and corporate acquisitions    
 
    Ricardo A. Anzaldua   
     
  59  

Executive Vice President and General Counsel of MetLife, Inc. (December 2012-present)    

Associate general counsel and senior vice president, director of commercial and consumer markets law, The Hartford Financial Services Group (October
2010-December 2012)    

Associate general counsel and senior vice president, director of corporate law, The Hartford Financial Services Group (February 2007-October 2010); corporate
secretary, The Hartford Financial Services Group (February 2008-October 2010)    

Additional Experience : Partner, Cleary Gottlieb Steen   Hamilton LLP (January 1999-January
2007)    
 
    Steven J. Goulart   
     
  54  

Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer of MetLife, Inc. (May 2011-present)    

Treasurer, MetLife, Inc. (July 2009-April 2011)    

Head of the Portfolio Management Unit as Senior Managing Director of MLIC (January 2011-April 2011)    

Head of the Mergers   Acquisitions Unit as Senior Vice President of MLIC (November 2006-July 2009)    

Additional Experience : Director of MetLife Group, Inc. (June-November 2006); senior managing director,
financial institutions group, Bear Stearns; managing director, global insurance group, Morgan Stanley; managing director, financial institutions group, Merrill Lynch    

John C.R. Hele   
     
  54  

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MetLife, Inc. (September 2012-present)    

Executive vice president, chief financial officer and treasurer, Arch Capital Group Ltd. (April 2009-August 2012)    

Chief financial officer, ING Group, N.V. (April 2007-March 2009)    

Additional Experience : Deputy chief financial officer, ING Group, N.V. (April 2006-April 2007); chief risk
officer, insurance, ING Group, N.V. (October 2003 to March 2006); Founder, president and chief executive officer, Worldinsure Limited (February 1999-August 2003); 11 years with Merrill Lynch in investment banking, marketing and finance positions in
the U.S.; various actuarial, finance and business roles with Crown Life in Canada     
         30   

Table of Contents  

Name    
     
     Age    
     
     Position with MetLife and Business Experience     

Frans Hijkoop   
     
  52  

Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of MetLife, Inc. (August 2011-present)    

Chief personnel officer and senior vice president of human resources, American Foods division of PepsiCo Inc. (January 2008-August 2011)    

Chief personnel officer and senior vice president of human resources, PepsiCo International (February 2007-January 2008)    

Additional Experience : Executive committee member and group human resources director, Lloyds TSB (January
2004-February 2007)    

Beth M. Hirschhorn   
     
  48  

Executive Vice President, Global Brand, Marketing and Communications of MetLife, Inc. (November 2011-present)    

Chief Marketing Officer and Senior Vice President of MetLife, Inc. (November 2006-October 2011)    

Additional Experience : Managed marketing for MetLife s U.S. Individual and Institutional businesses as
Vice President of MLIC (January 2003-November 2006); led the consumer financial services marketing unit of JPMorgan Chase before joining MetLife in 2002    
 
    Michel Khalaf   
     
  49  

President, EMEA, of MetLife, Inc. (November 2011-present)    

Executive Vice President, MLIC (January 2011-November 2011)    

Regional President, Middle East, Africa and South Asia, Alico (November 2008-November 2011) (Mr. Khalaf joined MetLife as a result of the ALICO
Acquisition)    

Deputy president and chief operating officer, Philamlife, the operating company of AIG in the Philippines (August 2006-October 2008)    

Additional Experience : Leadership roles with Alico in various markets around the world, including Poland,
Egypt, Italy, France, and the Caribbean    
 
    Martin Lippert   
     
  53  

Executive Vice President and Head of Global Technology and Operations of MetLife, Inc. (November 2011-present)    

Executive Vice President and Head of Global Technology of MetLife, Inc. (September 2011-November 2011)    

Chief operations and technology officer for Citigroup (July 2008-March 2009)    

Vice chairman and group head of global technology and operations, Royal Bank of Canada (RBC) (August 1997-July
2008)    

Maria R. Morris   
     
  50  

Executive Vice President and Head of Global Employee Benefits of MetLife, Inc. (November 2011-present)    

Executive Vice President, Global Operations, Integration of MetLife, Inc. (September 2011-November 2011)    

Executive Vice President, Technology and Operations of MetLife, Inc. (January 2008-September 2011)    

Executive Vice President, Employee Benefits Sales of MLIC (December 2005-January 2008)    

Additional Experience : Senior Vice President of Group Insurance and Voluntary Benefits Sales and Service
Operations of MLIC (July 2003-December 2005); Vice President of MLIC (March 1997-July 2003)    

Christopher G. Townsend   
     
  44  

President,Asia, of MetLife, Inc. (August 2012-present)    

Chief executive officer of the Asia Pacific region, Chartis (January 2010-April 2012)    

Chief executive officer, Chartis Australasia (February 2007-January 2010)    

Additional Experience : Chief executive officer, Chartis Hong Kong (January 2006-January 2007); various senior
leadership roles for Chartis, including regional vice president, commercial line, Chartis Asia Pacific, senior vice president of mergers and acquisitions, and other leadership roles in London and Sydney
(1991-2006)     
         31   

Table of Contents  

Name    
     
     Age    
     
     Position with MetLife and Business Experience     

William J. Wheeler   
     
  51  

President, Americas, MetLife, Inc. (November 2011-present)    

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MetLife, Inc. (December 2003-November 2011)    

Additional Experience : Senior Vice President of MLIC (1997-December 2003); oversaw business development, product management and marketing activities
for Individual Business (2002-2003); Chief Financial Officer for Individual Business (2000-2002); senior vice president, Donaldson, Lufkin   Jenrette    
       Trademarks    
  We have a worldwide trademark portfolio that we consider important in the marketing of our products
and services, including, among others, the trademark  MetLife.  We also have the exclusive global license to use the Peanuts      characters in the area of financial services and healthcare benefit services under an advertising and premium agreement with Peanuts Worldwide, LLC until
December 31, 2014. We also have a non-exclusive license to use certain Citigroup-owned trademarks in connection with the marketing, distribution or sale of life insurance and annuity products under a licensing agreement with Citigroup until
June 30, 2015. Furthermore, as a result of the ALICO Acquisition, we acquired American Life and its trademarks, including the  ALICO  trademark. We believe that our rights in our trademarks and under our Peanuts      characters license and our Citigroup license are well protected.   
     Available Information    
  MetLife files periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and
other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at its Headquarters Office, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-202-551-8090 or 1-800-SEC-0330 (Office of Investor
Education and Advocacy). In addition, the SEC maintains an internet website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including MetLife, Inc.   
  MetLife makes available, free of charge, on its website (www.metlife.com) through the Investor Relations page, its annual
reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to all those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing (furnishing) such reports to the SEC. Other information found on
the website is not part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.   
         32   

Table of Contents  

      Item 1A.  Risk Factors    
   Economic Environment and Capital Markets-Related Risks         If Difficult Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy Generally Persist, They May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations     
  Our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the
economy generally. Stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in financial asset classes or various markets, including global capital markets, can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and our
insurance liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. Global market factors, including interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, consumer spending, business investment, government
spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, deflation and inflation can all affect our financial condition, as well as the volume, profitability and results of our business operations, either directly or by virtue of their impact
on the business and economic environment generally and on general levels of economic activity, employment and customer behavior specifically. Disruptions in one market or asset class can also spread to other markets or asset classes. Upheavals in
the financial markets can also affect our financial condition (including our liquidity and capital levels) as a result of mismatched impacts on the value of our assets and our liabilities. While our diversified business mix and geographically
diverse business operations partially mitigate these risks, correlation across regions, countries and global market factors may reduce the benefits of diversification.   
  At times, throughout the past few years, volatile conditions have characterized financial markets, and not all global
financial markets are functioning normally. Significant market volatility, and government actions taken in response, may exacerbate some of the risks we face. Concerns about economic conditions, capital markets and the solvency of certain European
Union member states, including Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain ( Europe s perimeter region ), as well as Cyprus, and of the financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by these
countries, have been a cause of elevated levels of market volatility. This market volatility affected the performance of various asset classes during 2012, and it could continue until there is an ultimate resolution of these sovereign debt-related
concerns. Despite public and private support programs for Europe s perimeter region, concerns about sovereign debt sustainability subsequently expanded to other European Union member states. As a result, in late 2011 and early 2012, several
other European Union member states experienced credit ratings downgrades or had their credit ratings outlook changed to negative. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Investments
  Current Environment.  The financial markets have also been affected by concerns that one or more countries may exit the Euro zone. Any of these concerns could have significant adverse effects on the European and global economic and
financial markets generally.      To the extent these uncertain financial market conditions persist, our revenues
and net investment income are likely to remain under pressure. Similarly, sustained periods of low interest rates could cause our profit margins to erode. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations   Industry Trends   Impact of a Sustained Low Interest Rate Environment.  Also, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the recent global credit crisis, we could incur significant capital and/or operating
losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility.      We are a significant writer of variable insurance products and certain other products issued through separate accounts. The account values of these products decrease as a result of declining equity
markets. Decreases in account values reduce fees generated by these products, cause the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs ( DAC ) to accelerate and could increase the level of insurance liabilities we must carry to support
such products issued with any associated guarantees.   
         33   

Table of Contents  

   In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family
income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. Group insurance, in particular, is affected by higher unemployment rates. In
addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Furthermore, our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. Such adverse changes in the
economy could negatively affect our earnings and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.      The recent financial crisis has precipitated, and may continue to raise the possibility of, legislative, judicial, regulatory and other governmental actions. See    Regulatory and Legal Risks
  Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth  and   Risks Related to Our Business  
Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and Profitability.         Adverse Capital and Credit Market
Conditions May Significantly Affect Our Ability to Meet Liquidity Needs, Our Access to Capital and Our Cost of Capital        The capital and credit markets may be subject to periods of extreme volatility and disruption, which could cause our liquidity and credit capacity to be limited.   
  We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses and interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock, provide our
subsidiaries with cash or collateral, maintain our securities lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations, and our business and financial results may suffer.
See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources.       In the event market or other conditions have an adverse impact on our capital and liquidity, or any required regulatory stress-testing indicates that such conditions could have such an impact beyond
expectations and our current resources do not satisfy our needs or regulatory requirements, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as the then current market
conditions, regulatory considerations, availability of credit to us and the financial services industry generally, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the perception of our customers and lenders regarding our long- or short-term financial
prospects if we incur large operating or investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions
against us. Our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all.   
  Our liquidity requirements may change if, among other things, we are required to return significant amounts of cash
collateral on short notice under securities lending agreements. See    Investments-Related Risks   Should the Need Arise, We May Have Difficulty Selling Certain Holdings in Our Investment Portfolio or in Our Securities Lending Program
in a Timely Manner and Realizing Full Value Given Their Illiquid Nature  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Investments   Securities Lending.    
  Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital needed to
operate our business, most significantly in our insurance operations. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy regulatory capital requirements; and access the capital necessary to
grow our business. As a result, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue different types of securities than we would have otherwise, less effectively deploy such capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive
cost of capital, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by
disruptions in the financial markets.   
         34   

Table of Contents  

     We Are Exposed to Significant Financial and Capital Markets Risk Which May Adversely
Affect Our Results of Operations, Financial Condition and Liquidity, and May Cause Our Net Investment Income to Vary from Period to Period        We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, market
volatility, global economic performance in general, the performance of specific obligors, including governments, included in our investment portfolio and other factors outside our control.   
   Interest Rate Risk.     Some of our products, principally traditional whole life insurance,
fixed annuities and guaranteed interest contracts, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our investment margin or  spread,  or the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts in
our general account and the rate of return we earn on general account investments intended to support obligations under such contracts. Our spread is a key component of our net income.   
  As interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have
matured or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, which will reduce our investment margin. Moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the fixed income securities and commercial or agricultural mortgage loans in our investment portfolio with
greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, thereby exacerbating this risk. Although lowering interest crediting rates can help offset decreases in spreads on some products, our ability to lower these rates could be limited by
competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. As a result, our spread could decrease or potentially become negative.   
  Our expectation for future spreads is an important component in the amortization of DAC and value of business acquired
( VOBA ). Significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. In addition, during periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may
be relatively more attractive investments to consumers. This could result in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and increased persistency, or a higher percentage of insurance policies
remaining in-force from year to year, during a period when our new investments carry lower returns. A decline in market interest rates could also reduce our return on investments that do not support particular policy obligations. During periods of
sustained lower interest rates, policy liabilities may not be sufficient to meet future policy obligations and may need to be strengthened. Accordingly, declining and sustained lower interest rates may materially affect our results of operations,
financial position and cash flows and significantly reduce our profitability.      As a global insurance company,
we are also affected by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board and of central banks around the world. The Federal Reserve Board has taken a number of actions in recent years to spur economic activity by keeping interest rates low and may
take further action to influence rates in the future. Such actions may have an impact on the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments, and may adversely impact the level of product sales. Central banks in other parts of the world have also taken
action to lower interest rates. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Investments   Current Environment.  For a discussion of the impact of the low interest environment
on us, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Industry Trends   Impact of a Sustained Low Interest Rate Environment.    
  Increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect our profitability. In periods of rapidly increasing
interest rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the investments in our general account with higher yielding investments needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep interest sensitive products competitive. We,
therefore, may have to accept a lower spread and, thus, lower profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. In addition, policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals may tend to increase as
policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as interest   
         35   

Table of Contents  

rates rise. This process may result in cash outflows requiring that we sell investments at a time when the prices of those investments are adversely affected by the increase in market interest
rates, which may result in realized investment losses. Unanticipated withdrawals and terminations may cause us to accelerate the amortization of DAC and VOBA, which reduces net income and may also cause us to accelerate negative VOBA, which
increases net income. An increase in market interest rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the estimated fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a
substantial portion of our investment portfolio. Finally, an increase in interest rates could result in decreased fee income associated with a decline in the value of variable annuity account balances invested in fixed income funds.   
  We manage interest rate risk as part of our asset and liability management strategies, which include maintaining an
investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. We also use derivatives to mitigate interest rate risk. Although we take
measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our fixed income investments relative to our liabilities. See  Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures about Market Risk.        Credit Spreads.     Our exposure to credit
spreads primarily relates to market price volatility and cash flow variability associated with changes in such spreads. Market volatility can make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. In such case,
valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period-to-period changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. If there is a resumption of significant volatility in
the markets, it could cause changes in credit spreads and defaults and a lack of pricing transparency which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows.
See also  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Investments   Investment Risks.        Equity Risk.     Our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with certain of our businesses where fee income is earned based upon
the estimated fair value of the assets under management. Downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a material adverse effect on the revenues and investment returns from our savings and investment products and services. The retail variable
annuity business in particular is highly sensitive to equity markets, and a sustained weakness in the equity markets could decrease revenues and earnings with respect to those products. Furthermore, certain of our variable annuity products offer
guaranteed benefits which increase our potential benefit exposure should equity markets decline. We use derivatives and reinsurance to mitigate the impact of such increased potential benefit exposures. We are also exposed to interest rate and equity
risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with our pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. Sustained declines in long-term interest rates or equity returns likely would have a
negative effect on the funded status of these plans.      In addition, we invest a portion of our investments in
leveraged buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds. The amount and timing of net investment income from such funds tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments. The timing of distributions from
such funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds  schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict. As a result, the amount of net investment
income from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. Significant volatility could adversely impact returns and net investment income on these alternative investment classes. In addition, the estimated fair value of such
investments may be impacted by downturns or volatility in equity markets. See  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.        Real Estate Risk.     Our primary exposure to real estate risk relates to commercial and agricultural real estate. Our exposure to these risks stems from various factors,
including the supply and demand of leasable commercial space, creditworthiness of tenants and partners, capital markets volatility and interest rate fluctuations. In addition, our real estate joint venture development program is subject to risks,
including reduced property sales   
         36   

Table of Contents  

and decreased availability of financing, which could adversely impact these investments. Although we manage credit risk and market valuation risk for our commercial and agricultural real estate
assets through geographic, property type and product type diversification, and asset allocation, general economic conditions and the recovery rate in the commercial and agricultural real estate sectors will continue to influence the performance of
these investments. These factors, which are beyond our control, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows.   
   Obligor-Related Risks.     Our investment portfolio contains investments in government bonds
issued by certain European Union member states, Europe s perimeter region, as well as Cyprus, and in financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by those nations. Recently, the European Union member
states have experienced above average public debt, inflation and unemployment as the global economic downturn has developed. A number of member states are significantly impacted by the economies of their more influential neighbors, such as Germany,
and financial troubles of one nation can lead to troubles in others. In particular, a number of large European banks hold significant amounts of sovereign and/or financial institution debt of other European nations and could experience difficulties
as a result of defaults or declines in the value of such debt. Concerns regarding these difficulties could disrupt the functioning of the financial markets.      For example, this disruption could lead to the withdrawal of one or more countries from the Euro zone. The extent to which our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net investment
income would be affected by any such withdrawal will depend on a number of factors, including the identity of the withdrawing country and the likelihood that other counties will follow suit. Risks related to any such withdrawal could include overall
economic disruption; capital flight and attendant risks to the integrity of the European Union banking system; conversion to a national currency, which may be subject to devaluation as discussed further below; inflation risks; increased costs and
diminished effectiveness in hedging against declines in the value of the Euro; declines in the value of our investments; credit losses; and an increase in foreign currency exchange rate risks, among others. See  Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Investments   Investment Risks  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Investments   Current
Environment.       Our investment portfolio also contains investments, primarily in revenue bonds issued
under the auspices of U.S. states and municipalities, and a limited amount of general obligation bonds of U.S. states and municipalities (collectively,  State and political subdivision securities ). Recently, certain U.S. states and
municipalities have faced budget deficits and financial difficulties. The financial difficulties of such U.S. states and municipalities could have an adverse impact on our State and political subdivision securities.   
   Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risks.     Our primary foreign currency exchange rate risks are
described under    Risks Related to Our Business   Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability.  Changes in foreign currency exchange rates can significantly affect our net investment
income in any period, and such changes can be substantial. This risk will increase if a country withdraws from the Euro zone. In such case, the national currency to which such a country may revert will likely be devalued and contracts using the Euro
will need to be renegotiated. It is possible that any such devaluation and its related consequences for our contracts and investments in any such country could be significant and materially adversely affect our operations and earnings in that
country. Any operations we may have in any such withdrawing country could also be materially adversely affected by legal or governmental actions related to conversion from the Euro to a national currency. See  Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures about Market Risk.        Summary .    Significant volatility in the
markets could cause changes in interest rates, declines in equity prices, and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses, impairments, increased valuation allowances and changes in unrealized gain or loss positions.   
         37   

Table of Contents  

    Regulatory and Legal Risks    
    Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies
May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth         Insurance Regulation  
U.S .    Our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Insurance Regulation.  We anticipate that we will discuss
regulatory developments from time to time in future quarterly reports on Form 10-Q under the caption  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations   Industry Trends   Regulatory
Developments.       State insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners
( NAIC ) regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, that are made for the benefit of the consumer sometimes
lead to additional expense for the insurer and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Recently, the NAIC and the Department of Financial Services have been scrutinizing insurance
companies  use of affiliated captive reinsurers or off-shore entities to hedge and reinsure insurance risks. Like many life insurance companies, we utilize captive reinsurers to satisfy certain reserve requirements. If the Department of
Financial Services or other state insurance regulators restrict the use of such captive reinsurers, our ability to write certain products, or to hedge the associated risks efficiently, could be impaired or lead us to increase prices on those
products, which could adversely impact our competitive position and our results of operations. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Holding Company Regulation   Insurance Regulatory Examinations  and Note 11 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.      The NAIC is also reviewing life insurers  use of non-variable
separate accounts that are insulated from general account claims, which might lead to a recommendation against the allowance of insulation for certain of our separate account products, particularly in the institutional markets. If the Department of
Financial Services or other state insurance regulators change applicable laws or regulations in accordance with such recommendation, our use of insulation for certain products could be impaired and our ability to compete effectively or do business
in certain markets may be adversely affected. In addition, our financial results may also be adversely affected. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Holding Company Regulation   Insurance Regulatory Examinations.    
   U.S. Federal Regulation Affecting Insurance .    Currently, the U.S. federal government does
not directly regulate the business of insurance. However, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ( Dodd-Frank ) establishes the Federal Insurance Office within the Department of the Treasury, which has the authority
to participate in the negotiations of international insurance agreements with foreign regulators for the U.S., as well as to collect information about the insurance industry and recommend prudential standards.   
  Federal legislation and administrative policies can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies, including
policies regarding financial services regulation, securities regulation, derivatives regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In addition, various forms of direct and indirect federal
regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal charter for insurance companies. Other aspects of our insurance operations could also be affected by Dodd-Frank. Under the
so-called Volker Rule, Dodd-Frank imposes additional capital requirements and quantitative limits on certain trading and activities by a non-bank SIFI. MetLife, Inc. could be subject to such requirements and limits were it to be designated as a
non-bank SIFI. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI.    
  Non-bank SIFIs can be assessed under Dodd-Frank for any uncovered costs arising in connection with the resolution of a
systemically important financial company and to cover the expenses of the Office of Financial Research, an agency established by Dodd-Frank to improve the quality of financial data available to policymakers and facilitate more robust and
sophisticated analysis of the financial system.   
         38   

Table of Contents  

    Regulatory Agencies .    Dodd-Frank established
the CFPB, which supervises and regulates institutions providing certain financial products and services to consumers. Although the consumer financial services to which this legislation applies exclude insurance business of the kind in which we
engage, the CFPB has authority to regulate non-insurance consumer services provided by MetLife. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI   Consumer Protection Laws.    
  In addition, MetLife, Inc. s subsidiary, MetLife Bank, National Association ( MetLife Bank ), a federally
chartered, non-deposit taking, uninsured bank, is principally regulated by the OCC and the CFPB, and secondarily by the Federal Reserve. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Banking Regulation. While MetLife, Inc. has de-registered as a
bank holding company, it may, in the future, be designated by the FSOC as a non-bank SIFI, and could once again be subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve and subject to enhanced supervision and prudential standards. See  Business  
U.S. Regulation   Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI   Enhanced Prudential Standards.       In
the wake of the recent financial crisis, national and international authorities have also proposed various measures intended to increase the intensity of regulation of large financial institutions. These measures have included enhanced risk-based
capital requirements, leverage limits, liquidity requirements, single counterparty exposure limits, governance requirements for risk management, stress test requirements, special debt-to-equity limits for certain
companies, and early remediation procedures, resolution and recovery planning, as well as greater coordination among regulators and efforts to harmonize regulatory regimes. The imposition of such measures could adversely affect our ability to
conduct business, our results of operations and our ability to pay dividends, repurchase common stock or other securities or engage in other transactions that could affect our capital. See  Business   U.S. Regulation  and
 Business   International Regulation.        Mortgage and Foreclosure-Related
Exposures.     State and federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities have initiated various inquiries, investigations and examinations of alleged irregularities in the foreclosure practices of the residential mortgage
servicing industry. Mortgage servicing practices have also been the subject of Congressional attention. Authorities have publicly stated that the scope of the investigations extends beyond foreclosure documentation practices to include mortgage loan
origination, modification and loss mitigation practices. While we have reached settlements with some regulators relating to our mortgage servicing activities, it is possible that pending or additional inquiries, investigations or examinations may
result in further monetary payments or other measures against us. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Industry Trends   Mortgage and Foreclosure-Related Exposures. 
      Regulation of Brokers and Dealers .    Dodd-Frank also authorizes the SEC to
establish a standard of conduct applicable to brokers and dealers when providing personalized investment advice to retail and other customers. This standard of conduct would be to act in the best interest of the customer without regard to the
financial or other interest of the broker or dealer providing the advice. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Securities, Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation.    
   ERISA Considerations.     We provide products and services to certain employee benefit plans
that are subject to ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ). Consequently, our activities are likewise subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Code, including the requirement that fiduciaries must
perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries, and not cause a plan to engage in prohibited transactions with persons who have certain relationships with respect to those plans.   
  The prohibited transaction rules generally restrict the provision of investment advice to ERISA plans and participants
and Individual Retirement Accounts ( IRAs ) if the investment recommendation results in fees paid to the individual advisor, the firm or affiliate that vary according to the recommendation chosen. Recently adopted regulations in this area
provide some relief from these investment advice restrictions. If additional relief is not provided, the ability of our affiliated broker-dealers and their registered representatives to provide investment advice to ERISA plans and participants and
IRAs would likely be significantly restricted. Other proposed regulations in this area may negatively impact the current business model of our broker-dealers,   
         39   

Table of Contents  

including proposed changes to broaden the definition of  fiduciary  under ERISA, thereby increasing the regulation of persons providing investment advice to ERISA plans. In addition,
recently effective regulations increasing the level of disclosure provided to plan sponsors and participants will likely increase the regulatory and compliance burden upon us, resulting in increased expenses for us. See  Business   U.S.
Regulation   Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ) Considerations.    
   International Regulation .    Our international insurance operations are principally regulated
by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. See  Business   International Regulation.  A significant portion of our revenue is generated through operations in foreign jurisdictions,
including many countries in early stages of economic and political development. Our international operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators, such as any nationalization or
expropriation of assets, the imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies, changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation, political instability, dividend limitations, price controls,
changes in applicable currency, currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold to U.S. dollars or other
currencies. This may also impact many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries. Changes in the laws and regulations that affect these customers and independent sales intermediaries also may affect our business relationships with them
and their ability to purchase or distribute our products. Accordingly, these changes and actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions. We expect the scope and extent of regulation outside of the U.S., as well as general
regulatory oversight, to continue to increase. The authority of our international operations to conduct business is subject to licensing requirements, permits and approvals, and these authorizations are subject to modification and revocation. The
regulatory environment in the countries in which we operate and changes in laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See    Risks Related to Our Business   Our International Operations Face Political,
Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability.    
  We are also subject to the evolving Solvency II insurance regulatory directive for our insurance business throughout the
European Economic Area. As requirements are finalized by the regulators, capital requirements might be impacted in a number of jurisdictions. In addition, our legal entity structure throughout Europe may impact our capital requirements, risk
management infrastructure and reporting by country. See  Business   International Regulation.    
   General .    From time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations or audits of
MetLife, Inc. s regulated subsidiaries that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. We cannot predict whether or when regulatory actions may be taken that could adversely affect our operations. In addition, the
interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements. We are also subject to other regulations and may in the future
become subject to additional regulations. See  Business   U.S. Regulation  and  Business   International Regulation.  Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and
changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   
  See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations   Industry
Trends   Regulatory Developments  for additional information on the laws and regulations affecting our business.   
         40   

Table of Contents  

     The Dodd-Frank Provisions Compelling the Liquidation of Certain Types of Financial
Institutions Could Materially and Adversely Affect MetLife, Inc., as a Potential Non-Bank SIFI and an Investor in Other Financial Institutions, and Our Investors     
  Under provisions of Dodd-Frank, if MetLife, Inc. is designated a non-bank SIFI and it it were to become insolvent or were
in danger of defaulting on its obligations, it could be compelled to undergo liquidation with the FDIC as receiver. For this new regime to be applicable, a number of determinations would have to be made, including that a default by MetLife, Inc.
would have serious adverse effects on financial stability in the United States. If the FDIC were appointed as the receiver for MetLife, Inc., liquidation would occur under the provisions of the new liquidation authority, and not under the
Bankruptcy Code, which ordinarily governs liquidations. In an FDIC managed liquidation, holders of a company s debt could be treated differently than under the Bankruptcy Code and similarly-situated creditors could be treated differently.
In particular, unsecured creditors and shareholders are intended to bear the losses of the company being liquidated. These provisions could also apply to financial institutions whose debt securities we hold in our investment portfolio and could
adversely affect our position as a creditor and the value of our holdings.      Dodd-Frank also provides for the
assessment of charges against certain financial institutions, including non-bank SIFIs and bank holding companies of a certain size, to cover the costs of liquidating any financial company subject to the new liquidation authority. If MetLife, Inc.
is designated as a non-bank SIFI, we could be assessed for a portion of the costs of the liquidation of a financial company that is liquidated under this authority. The liquidation authority could increase the funding costs of large bank holding
companies or financial companies that might be viewed as systemically significant, such as MetLife, Inc. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI   Orderly Liquidation Authority.    
    Legislative and Regulatory Activity in Health Care and Other Employee Benefits Could Affect our Profitability As a Provider of Life
Insurance, Annuities, and Non-Medical Health Insurance Benefit Products        The Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act, signed into law on March 23, 2010, and The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, signed into law on March 30, 2010 (together, the  Health Care Act ), may lead to fundamental changes in the way
that employers, including us, provide health care benefits, other benefits, and other forms of compensation to their employees and former employees. The Health Care Act also imposes requirements on us as a provider of non-medical health insurance
benefit and other products and on the purchasers of certain of these products. The Health Care Act or any other related regulations or regulatory actions could adversely affect our ability to offer certain of these products in the same manner as we
do today. They could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide certain products, and could harm our competitive position if the Health Care Act has a disparate impact on our products compared to products offered by our competitors.
     In addition, we employ a substantial number of employees, including sales agents, in the United States to
whom we offer employment-related benefits. We also currently provide benefits to certain of our retirees. These benefits are provided under complex plans that are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements. Either the Health Care Act or related
regulations or regulatory actions could adversely affect our ability to attract, retain and motivate our associates. They could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide employee benefits, and could harm our competitive position if
we are subject to fees, penalties, tax provisions or other limitations in the Health Care Act and our competitors are not.      The Preservation of Access to Care for Medicare Beneficiaries and Pension Relief Act of 2010 also includes certain provisions for defined benefit pension plan funding relief. These provisions may impact
the likelihood and/or timing of corporate plan sponsors terminating their plans and/or engaging in transactions to partially or fully transfer pension obligations to an insurance company. As part of our Corporate Benefit Funding segment, we offer
general account and separate account group annuity products that enable a plan sponsor to transfer these risks, often in connection with the termination of defined benefit pension plans. Consequently, this legislation could indirectly affect the mix
of our business, with fewer closeouts and more non-guaranteed funding products, and adversely impact our results of operations.   
         41   

Table of Contents  

     Changes in U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations, and State Insurance
Regulations Regarding Suitability of Annuity Product Sales, May Affect Our Operations and Our Profitability        Federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to insurance products that are also  securities,  including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies. As a result,
some of MetLife, Inc. s subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under these securities laws.   
  Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets
and to protect investors in the securities markets, and to protect investment advisory or brokerage clients. These laws and regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or
restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with the securities laws and regulations. A number of changes have recently been suggested to the laws and regulations that govern the conduct of our variable insurance products business and our
distributors that could change the way we conduct our business and the products we sell. This may adversely affect our operations and profitability, including increasing the regulatory and compliance burden upon us, resulting in increased costs. See
 Business   U.S. Regulation   Securities, Broker-Dealer and Investment Advisor Regulation.  We also may be subject to similar laws and regulations in the foreign countries in which we offer products or conduct other activities
similar to those described above. See  Business   International Regulation.         Changes in Tax Laws, Tax
Regulations, or Interpretations of Such Laws or Regulations Could Reduce Our Earnings and Materially Impact Our Operations by Increasing Our Corporate Taxes and Making Some of Our Products Less Attractive to Consumers     
  Changes in tax laws, Treasury and other regulations promulgated thereunder, or interpretations of such laws or
regulations could increase our corporate taxes and reduce our earnings. The Obama Administration has proposed corporate tax changes. Changes in corporate tax rates could affect the value of our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities.
Furthermore, the value of deferred tax assets could be impacted by future earnings levels.      Currently, U.S.
tax laws afford certain benefits to life insurance and annuity products. The Obama Administration has also proposed certain changes to individual income tax rates and rules applicable to certain of these products. Changes in tax laws could make some
of our products less attractive to consumers. A shift away from life insurance and annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products by our customers would reduce our income from sales of these products, as well as the asset base upon which we earn
investment income and fees, thereby reducing our earnings.        Litigation and Regulatory Investigations Are Increasingly
Common in Our Businesses and May Result in Significant Financial Losses and/or Harm to Our Reputation     
  We face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating
our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. Our pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings specific to us and others generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which we operate. In connection with
our insurance operations, plaintiffs  lawyers may bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design,
disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers. Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble
damages. Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time may normally be difficult to ascertain. Uncertainties can include how fact finders will evaluate
documentary evidence and the credibility and effectiveness of witness testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal.
Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the   
         42   

Table of Contents  

relevant evidence and applicable law. Material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us and risks to our business presented by these proceedings are discussed in Note 21 of the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Updates are provided in the notes to our interim condensed consolidated financial statements included in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, as well as in Part II, Item 1 ( Legal
Proceedings ) of those quarterly reports.      We are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as
information requests, subpoenas and books and record examinations, from state and federal regulators and other authorities.      A substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us, as well as regulatory inquiries or investigations could harm our reputation, result in material fines or penalties, result in
significant legal costs and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, our ability to attract new
customers, retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees could be materially and adversely impacted. Regulatory inquiries and litigation may also cause volatility in the price of stocks of companies in our industry.   
  Current claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and other proceedings against us
could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. It is also possible that related or unrelated claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and proceedings may be
commenced in the future, and we could become subject to further investigations and have lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. We currently have a market presence in over 45 countries and may be subject to additional
investigations and lawsuits in these jurisdictions. Increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings in any of the countries where we operate could result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide regulations
that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.       Investments-Related Risks
        Should the Need Arise, We May Have Difficulty Selling Certain Holdings in Our Investment Portfolio or Our
Securities Lending Program in a Timely Manner and Realizing Full Value Given Their Illiquid Nature     
  There may be a limited market for certain investments we hold in our investment portfolio, making them relatively
illiquid. These include privately-placed fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, policy loans, leveraged leases, equity real estate, such as real estate joint ventures and funds, and other limited partnership interests. In recent years, even some
of our very high quality investments experienced reduced liquidity during periods of market volatility or disruption. If we were forced to sell certain of our investments during periods of market volatility or disruption, market prices may be lower
than our carrying value in such investments. This could result in realized losses which could have a material adverse effect on our net income and financial position.   
  Similarly, we loan blocks of our securities to third parties (primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks) through our
securities lending program, including fixed maturity and equity securities, short-term investments and cash equivalents. Under this program, we obtain collateral, usually cash, at the inception of a loan and typically purchase securities with the
cash collateral. Upon the return to us of these loaned securities, we must return to the third party the cash collateral we received. If the cash collateral has been invested in securities, we need to sell the securities. However, in some cases, the
maturity of those securities may exceed the term of the related securities on loan and the estimated fair value of the securities we need to sell may fall below the amount of cash received.   
  If we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral under our securities lending program or otherwise
need significant amounts of cash on short notice and we are forced to sell securities, we may have difficulty selling such collateral that is invested in securities in a timely manner, be forced to sell securities in a
  
         43   

Table of Contents  

volatile or illiquid market for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize under normal market conditions, or both. In the event of a forced sale, accounting guidance requires the
recognition of a loss for securities in an unrealized loss position and may require the impairment of other securities based on our ability to hold those securities, which would negatively impact our financial condition. In addition, under stressful
capital market and economic conditions, liquidity broadly deteriorates, which may further restrict our ability to sell securities. Furthermore, if we decrease the amount of our securities lending activities over time, the amount of net investment
income generated by these activities will also likely decline. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Investments  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity and Capital Uses   Securities Lending.         Our Requirements to Pledge Collateral or Make Payments Related to Declines in Estimated Fair Value of Specified Assets May Adversely Affect Our Liquidity and Expose Us to Counterparty Credit Risk
       Some of our financing transactions require us to pledge collateral related to any decline in the
estimated fair value of the specified assets under certain circumstances. Similarly, the terms of some of our financing transactions require us to make payments to our counterparties related to any decline in the estimated fair value of certain
specified assets. The amount of collateral we may be required to pledge and the payments we may be required to make under these agreements may increase under certain circumstances and will likely increase under Dodd-Frank, which could adversely
affect our liquidity. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Holding Company Regulation   Regulation of Over-the-Counter Derivatives,   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity and Capital Uses   Pledged Collateral  and Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
    Gross Unrealized Losses on Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities and Defaults, Downgrades or Other Events May Result in Future
Impairments to the Carrying Value of Such Securities, Resulting in a Reduction in Our Net Income     
  Fixed maturity securities represent a significant portion of our investment portfolio. Fixed maturity and equity
securities classified as available-for-sale ( AFS ) securities are reported at their estimated fair value. Unrealized gains or losses on AFS securities are recognized as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) and are, therefore,
excluded from net income. In recent periods, as a result of low interest rates, the unrealized gains on our fixed maturity securities have far exceeded the unrealized losses. However, if interest rates rise, our unrealized gains would decrease and
our unrealized losses would increase, perhaps substantially. The accumulated change in estimated fair value of these AFS securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the
decline in estimated fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary and an impairment charge to earnings is taken. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Investments  
Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities AFS.       The occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of
corporate malfeasance, widening risk spreads, or other events that adversely affect the issuers, guarantors or underlying collateral of structured securities could cause the estimated fair value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and
corresponding earnings to decline and cause the default rate of the fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to increase. A ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular securities, or similar trends that could worsen
the credit quality of issuers, such as the corporate issuers of securities in our investment portfolio, could also have a similar effect. With economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or guarantors could be adversely affected. Similarly, a
ratings downgrade affecting a security we hold could indicate the credit quality of that security has deteriorated and could increase the capital we must hold to support that security to maintain our RBC levels. Levels of writedowns or impairments
are impacted by intent to sell, or our assessment of the likelihood that we will be required to sell, fixed maturity securities, as well as our intent and ability to hold equity securities which have declined in value until recovery. Realized losses
or impairments on these securities may have a material adverse effect on our net income in a particular quarterly or annual period.   
         44   

Table of Contents  

     Our Valuation of Securities and Investments and the Determination of the Amount of
Allowances and Impairments Taken on Our Investments Are Subjective and Include Methodologies, Estimations and Assumptions Which Are Subject to Differing Interpretations and Market Conditions and, if Changed, Could Materially Adversely Affect Our
Results of Operations or Financial Condition        Fixed maturity, equity, fair value option and trading
securities, as well as short-term investments that are reported at estimated fair value represent the majority of our total cash and investments. We define fair value generally as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer
a liability. Considerable judgment is often required in interpreting market data to develop estimates of fair value, and the use of different assumptions or valuation methodologies may have a material effect of the estimated fair value amounts.
During periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or
market data becomes less observable. In addition, in times of financial market disruption, certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data may become illiquid. In those cases, the valuation process includes inputs
that are less observable and require more subjectivity and management judgment. Valuations may result in estimated fair values which vary significantly from the amount at which the investments may ultimately be sold. Further, rapidly changing and
unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in estimated fair value could vary significantly.
Decreases in the fair value of securities we hold may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
Investments  and Notes 1 and 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      The determination
of the amount of allowances and impairments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as
conditions change and new information becomes available. We reflect any changes in allowances and impairments in earnings as such evaluations are revised. However, historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances. In
addition, any such future impairments or allowances could have a materially adverse effect on our earnings and financial position. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Summary of
Critical Accounting Estimates   Investment Impairments  and Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.        Defaults on Our Mortgage Loans and Volatility in Performance May Adversely Affect Our Profitability        Our mortgage loans face default risk and are principally collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential properties. We establish valuation allowances for estimated impairments, which are based
on loan risk characteristics, historical default rates and loss severities, real estate market fundamentals and outlooks, as well as other relevant factors. In addition, substantially all of our mortgage loans held-for-investment have balloon
payment maturities. An increase in the default rate of our mortgage loan investments or fluctuations in their performance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   
  Further, any geographic or sector concentration of our mortgage loans may have adverse effects on our investment
portfolios and consequently on our results of operations or financial condition. While we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or
sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated. Moreover, our ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of related assets may be limited if other market
participants are seeking to sell at the same time. In addition, legislative proposals that would allow or require modifications to the terms of mortgage loans could be enacted. We cannot predict whether these proposals will be adopted, or what
impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business or investments. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Investments   Mortgage Loans. 
  
         45   

Table of Contents  

     The Defaults or Deteriorating Credit of Other Financial Institutions Could Adversely
Affect Us        We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute
transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds and investment funds and other financial institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit
risk in the event of default of our counterparty. In addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full
amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. We also have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, non-redeemable and redeemable preferred securities, derivatives, joint venture, hedge fund and
equity investments. Further, potential action by governments and regulatory bodies in response to the financial crisis affecting the global banking system and financial markets, such as investment, nationalization, conservatorship, receivership and
other intervention, whether under existing legal authority or any new authority that may be created, or lack of action by European Union member governments and central banks, as well as deterioration in the banks  credit standing, could
negatively impact these instruments, securities, transactions and investments or limit our ability to trade with them. Any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these investments or other changes may materially and adversely affect our
business and results of operations.       Risks Related to Our Business    
    Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic
Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability        Our international
operations face political, legal, financial, operational and other risks. These operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators, such as through nationalization or expropriation of
assets, the imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies, changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation, political instability, dividend limitations, price controls, changes in applicable
currency, currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies, as well
as other adverse actions by foreign governmental authorities and regulators, such as the retroactive application of new requirements on our current and prior activities or operations. Such actions may negatively affect our business in these
jurisdictions and could indirectly affect our business in other jurisdictions as well. Some of our foreign insurance operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where these risks are heightened. See  Business  
International Regulation  and  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,  as well as    Regulatory and Legal Risks   Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in
Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth.    
  For example, in recent years, the operating environment in Argentina has been very challenging. We were formerly
principally engaged in the pension business there, but in December 2008, the Argentine government nationalized the Social Security System and moved pension fund assets into the government-run system, effectively eliminating the private pension
companies in Argentina. This substantially reduced our presence in Argentina. Acccordingly, we have experienced and will continue to experience reductions in the operation s revenues and cash flows. More recent governmental actions have
significantly limited our ability to run independently our Argentine operation, which could further reduce this operation s revenues and increase its compliance costs and other expenses. See  Business   International Regulation. 
We also have operations in the Middle East where the legal and political systems and regulatory frameworks are subject to instability and disruptions. Instability has increased in many parts of the Middle East as a result of the  Arab
Spring  movement. Lack of legal certainty and stability in the region exposes our operations to increased risk of disruption and to adverse or unpredictable actions by regulators and may make it more difficult for us to enforce our contracts,
which may negatively impact our business in this region.   
         46   

Table of Contents  

   We have market presence in over 45 different countries and increased
exposure to risks posed by local and regional economic conditions. Europe has recently experienced a deep recession and appears to have entered another recession. A recession in Europe could adversely impact the demand for our products, negatively
impact earnings, adversely affect the performance of our investments or result in impairments, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. See    Economic Environment
and Capital Markets-Related Risks   If Difficult Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy Generally Persist, They May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations.  Countries in Europe s perimeter
region, as well as Cyprus, have been particularly affected by the recession, resulting in increased national debts and depressed economic activity. We have significant operations and investments in these countries which could be adversely affected
by economic developments such as higher taxes, growing inflation, decreasing government spending, rising unemployment and currency instability. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  Investments   Current Environment.       In addition, we face substantial exposure to the
Japanese markets as a result of our considerable presence there. The Japanese economy continues to be weak and may experience further disruptions, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See
   Risks Related to Our Business   Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability,  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  Industry Trends   Financial and Economic Environment.       Furthermore, we rely on local sales
forces in these countries and may encounter labor problems resulting from workers  associations and trade unions in some countries. In several countries, including China and India, we operate with local business partners and managing these
partner relationships poses risks to our business objectives. If our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training the sales force in that country.   
  Lastly, we are continuing to expand our international operations in certain markets where we operate and in selected new
markets. This may require considerable management time, as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. Operations in new foreign markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable,
and expansion in existing markets may be affected by local political, economic and market conditions. Therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not achieve expected operating margins and our results of operations may be negatively impacted.
       Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability     
  We are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar resulting
from our holdings of non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries and net income from foreign operations and issuance of non-U.S. dollar denominated instruments, including guaranteed interest contracts and funding
agreements. In general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar will adversely affect the estimated fair value of our non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, our investments in foreign subsidiaries, and our net income from
foreign operations. In addition, from time to time, various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies. Our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate
risk is exacerbated by our investments in these emerging markets. See  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.       In addition, certain of our life and annuity products are exposed to foreign exchange rate risk. Payments under these contracts, depending on the circumstances, may be required to be made in different
currencies and may not be the legal tender in the country whose law governs the particular product. Changes in exchange rate movements and the imposition of capital controls may also directly impact the liability valuation that may not be entirely
hedged. If the currency upon which expected future payments are made strengthens, the liability valuation may increase, which may result in a reduction of net income.   
         47   

Table of Contents  

   Historically, we have matched substantially all of our foreign currency
liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with investments denominated in their respective foreign currency, which limits the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuation on local operating results; however, fluctuations in such rates affect the
translation of these results into our U.S. dollar basis consolidated financial statements. Although we take certain actions to address this risk, including entering into foreign currency derivatives, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation could
materially adversely affect our reported results due to unhedged positions or the failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. See  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk.       We face substantial exposure to risks associated with fluctuations in the yen/U.S. dollar
exchange rate because we now have substantial operations in Japan and a significant portion of our premiums and investment income in Japan are received in yen. Most claims and expenses associated with our operations in Japan are also paid in yen and
we primarily purchase yen-denominated assets to support yen-denominated policy liabilities. These and other yen-denominated financial statement items are, however, translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. Accordingly,
fluctuations in the yen/U.S. dollar exchange rate can have a significant effect on our reported financial position and results of operations. Our Japan operation does assume some currency exposure by backing a portion of surplus and yen-denominated
liabilities with U.S. dollar assets. Although this represents risk to our Japan operation, this activity reduces yen exposure at the enterprise level.      Due to our significant international operations, during periods when any foreign currency in which we derive our revenues weakens (strengthens), translating amounts expressed in that currency into U.S.
dollars causes fewer (more) U.S. dollars to be reported. Any unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The weakening of a foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar will
generally adversely affect the value of investments in U.S. dollar terms and reduce the level of reserves denominated in that currency.        An Inability to Access Our Credit Facilities Could Result in a Reduction in Our Liquidity and Lead to Downgrades in Our Credit and Financial Strength Ratings     
  We rely on our credit facilities as a potential source of liquidity. The availability of these facilities could be
critical to our credit and financial strength ratings and our ability to meet our obligations as they come due in a market when alternative sources of credit are tight. These credit facilities contain certain administrative, reporting, legal and
financial covenants, including a requirement to maintain a specified minimum consolidated net worth. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources  
The Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Credit and Committed Facilities  and Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  Our right to borrow funds under these facilities is subject to the fulfillment of certain important conditions, including
our compliance with all covenants, and our ability to borrow under these facilities is also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the lenders that are parties to the facilities to provide funds. Our failure to comply with the covenants
in the credit facilities or fulfill the conditions to borrowings, or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments (whether due to insolvency, illiquidity or other reasons) in the amounts provided for under the terms of the facilities,
would restrict our ability to access these credit facilities when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   
    We May Need to Fund Deficiencies in Our Closed Block; Assets Allocated to the Closed Block Benefit Only the Holders of Closed Block
Policies        MLIC s plan of reorganization, as amended (the  Plan ), established in
connection with its demutualization, required that we establish and operate an accounting mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that the reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own certain individual insurance policies of MLIC
are met. See Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We allocated assets to the closed block in   
         48   

Table of Contents  

an amount that will produce cash flows which, together with anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and
liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain expenses and tax, and to provide for the continuation of the policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the experience
underlying such scales continues, and for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. The closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies included in the
closed block may not be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. If they are not, we must fund the shortfall. Even if they are sufficient, we may choose, for competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend
payments with our general account funds.      The closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed
block assets and the anticipated revenues from the policies in the closed block will benefit only the holders of the policies in the closed block. In addition, to the extent that these amounts are greater than the amounts estimated at the time the
closed block was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies included in the closed block may be greater than they would be in the absence of a closed block. Any excess earnings will be available for distribution over time only to closed
block policyholders.        A Downgrade or a Potential Downgrade in Our Financial Strength or Credit Ratings Could Result in a
Loss of Business and Materially Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations     
  Financial strength ratings, are published by various Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations
( NRSRO ) and similar entities not formally recognized as NRSROs. They indicate the NRSROs opinion regarding an insurance company s ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, are important to maintaining public
confidence in our products and our competitive position.      Downgrades in our financial strength ratings could
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including:       

reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products;      

adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and independent sales intermediaries;      

materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders;      

requiring us to post additional collateral under certain of our financing transactions;      

requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive; and      

adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices or at all.      
  In addition to the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, various NRSROs also publish credit ratings
for MetLife, Inc. and several of its subsidiaries. Credit ratings indicate the NRSROs opinion regarding a debt issuer s ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors in our overall funding profile
and ability to access certain types of liquidity. Downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including limiting our access to capital markets, potentially
increasing the cost of debt, and requiring us to post collateral. See Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the impact of a one-notch downgrade with respect to derivative transactions with credit
rating downgrade triggers and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity and Capital Uses   Pledged
Collateral  for information on the impact of a two-notch downgrade. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   The Company   Capital   Rating Agencies.    
  In view of the difficulties experienced by many financial institutions as a result of the global recession, including our
competitors in the insurance industry, we believe it is possible that the NRSROs will continue to   
         49   

Table of Contents  

heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to insurance companies, will continue to increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, will continue to request additional information
from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. Our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without notice by any NRSRO.   
    Reinsurance May Not Be Available, Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us Against Losses     
  As part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various
business segments. While reinsurance agreements generally bind the reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection
for new business. In certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business already reinsured may also increase. Any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent
a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our
ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to those policies we issue. See  Business   Reinsurance Activity  and    Risks Related to Our Business   If the Counterparties to
Our Reinsurance or Indemnification Arrangements or to the Derivatives We Use to Hedge Our Business Risks Default or Fail to Perform, We May Be Exposed to Risks We Had Sought to Mitigate, Which Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Financial
Condition and Results of Operations.         If the Counterparties to Our Reinsurance or Indemnification Arrangements or
to the Derivatives We Use to Hedge Our Business Risks Default or Fail to Perform, We May Be Exposed to Risks We Had Sought to Mitigate, Which Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations     
  We use reinsurance, indemnification and derivatives to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. In general,
reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers and indemnitors. A reinsurer s or indemnitor s
insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of reinsurance agreements or indemnity agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including our liquidity.
     In addition, we use derivatives to hedge various business risks. We enter into a variety of derivatives,
including options, forwards, interest rate, credit default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Investments.  If our
counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivatives, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. This risk is more pronounced in light of the stresses suffered by financial institutions over the past few years.
Such failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See  Business   Reinsurance Activity.         Differences Between Actual Claims Experience and Underwriting and Reserving Assumptions May Adversely Affect Our Financial Results     
  Our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the
assumptions we use in setting prices for our products and establishing liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. Such amounts are established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. To
the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions we used in establishing such liabilities, we could be required to increase our liabilities.   
  Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of
liabilities for future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle our liabilities. Such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur
until well into the future. We evaluate our liabilities periodically based on   
         50   

Table of Contents  

accounting requirements, which change from time to time, the assumptions used to establish the liabilities, as well as our actual experience. If the liabilities originally established for future
benefit payments prove inadequate, we must increase them. Such increases could affect earnings negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. See  Business   Policyholder
Liabilities  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Policyholder Liabilities.         Our Risk Management Policies and Procedures May Leave Us Exposed to Unidentified or Unanticipated Risk, Which Could Negatively Affect Our Business     
  We have devoted significant resources to develop and periodically update our risk management policies and procedures to
reflect ongoing review of our risks and expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be comprehensive and may not identify every risk to which we are exposed. Many of our methods for managing risk and
exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. As a result, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which can be significantly greater than our historical measures
indicate. Other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. This information may not always be
accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. In addition, more extensive and perhaps different risk management policies and procedures might have to be implemented under pending regulations. See  Business   U.S. Regulation  
Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI  and  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.    
    Catastrophes May Adversely Impact Liabilities for Policyholder Claims and Reinsurance Availability     
  Our insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic events. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a
function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis and man-made catastrophes
may produce significant damage or loss of life or property damage in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated. Claims resulting from catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal
quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. In addition, catastrophic events could harm the financial condition of issuers of obligations we hold in our investment portfolio, resulting in
impairments to these obligations, and the financial condition of our reinsurers, thereby increasing the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. Large-scale catastrophes may also reduce the overall level of economic activity in affected
countries which could hurt our business and the value of our investments or our ability to write new business. It is possible that increases in the value, caused by the effects of inflation or other factors, and geographic concentration of insured
lives or property, could increase the severity of claims we receive from future catastrophic events.      Our life
insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of deaths. Significant influenza pandemics have occurred three times in the last century; however, the likelihood,
timing, and severity of a future pandemic cannot be predicted. A significant pandemic could have a major impact on the global economy or the economies of particular countries or regions, including travel, trade, tourism, the health system, food
supply, consumption, overall economic output and, eventually, on the financial markets. In addition, a pandemic that affected our employees or the employees of our distributors or of other companies with which we do business could disrupt our
business operations. The effectiveness of external parties, including governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material impact on the losses experienced by us. In our group
insurance operations, a localized event that affects the workplace of one or more of our group insurance customers could cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. These events could cause a material adverse effect on our results
of operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could also materially and adversely affect our financial condition.   
         51   

Table of Contents  

   Our property   casualty businesses have experienced, and will
likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may have a material adverse impact on their business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we make every effort to limit our exposure to catastrophic risks through
volatility management and reinsurance programs, these efforts do not eliminate all risk. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather (including snow,
freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks. Historically, substantially all of our property   casualty catastrophe-related claims have related to homeowners coverages. However,
catastrophes may also affect other property   casualty coverages. Due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing and severity of catastrophes. In addition, changing climate conditions, primarily rising global temperatures, may
increase the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes such as hurricanes.      Areas of major hurricane
exposure include coastal sections of the northeastern U.S. (including lower New York, Connecticut, Rhode Island and Massachusetts), the Gulf Coast (including Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana and Texas) and Florida. We also have some earthquake
exposure, primarily along the New Madrid fault line in the central U.S. and in the Pacific Northwest.   
  Consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we establish liabilities for claims arising from a
catastrophe only after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. We cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established will be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. From time to time, states have passed legislation that has
the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as legislation restricting an insurer s ability to withdraw from catastrophe-prone areas. While we attempt to limit our exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions
imposed by insurance regulatory authorities, a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   
  Most of the jurisdictions in which our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business require life and
property   casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations. These associations are organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or
failed insurers, who may become impaired, insolvent or fail, for example, following the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events. These associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the
basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. In addition, certain states have government owned or controlled organizations
providing life and property   casualty insurance to their citizens. The activities of such organizations could also place additional stress on the adequacy of guaranty fund assessments. Many of these organizations also have the power to
levy assessments similar to those of the guaranty associations described above. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Insurance
Regulation   Guaranty Associations and Similar Arrangements  and  Business   International Regulation.       While in the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied against MetLife, Inc. s insurance subsidiaries have not been material, it is possible that a large catastrophic event could render such
guaranty funds inadequate and we may be called upon to contribute additional amounts, which may have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations in a particular period. We have established liabilities for guaranty fund
assessments that we consider adequate, but additional liabilities may be necessary. See Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      Our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our property   casualty and life insurance businesses depends in part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may not be
available at commercially acceptable rates in the future. See    Risks Related to Our Business   Reinsurance May Not Be Available, Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us Against Losses.    
         52   

Table of Contents  

     Our Statutory Life Insurance Reserve Financings May Be Subject to Cost Increases and
New Financings May Be Subject to Limited Market Capacity        To support statutory reserves for several
products, including, but not limited to, our level premium term life and universal life with secondary guarantees and MLIC s closed block, we currently utilize capital markets solutions for financing a portion of our statutory reserve
requirements. While we have financing facilities in place for certain previously written business, certain of these facilities are subject to cost increases upon the occurrence of specified ratings downgrades of MetLife or are subject to periodic
repricing. Any resulting cost increases could negatively impact our financial results.      Future capacity for
these statutory reserve funding structures in the marketplace is not guaranteed. Currently, the use of captive reinsurers is being studied by the Department of Financial Services and the NAIC. See    Regulatory and Legal Risks  
Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth.  If the Department of Financial Services or other state insurance
regulators determine to restrict the use of captive reinsurers for purposes of funding reserve requirements or capacity in the capital markets otherwise becomes unavailable for a prolonged period of time, thereby hindering our ability to obtain
funding for these new structures, our ability to write additional business in a cost effective manner may be impacted.   
    Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and Profitability     
  We believe competition amongst insurance companies is based on a number of factors, including service, product features,
scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business capabilities and name recognition. We compete globally, with a large number of other insurance companies, as well as non-insurance financial services companies, such
as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers, employers and other group customers and agents and other distributors of insurance and investment products. Some of these companies offer a broader array of products, have more
competitive pricing or, with respect to other insurance companies, have higher claims paying ability ratings. Some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. In some circumstances, national banks that sell annuity products of
life insurers may also have pre-existing customer bases for financial services products. Additionally, many of our group insurance products are underwritten annually. There is a risk that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms
from competitors than they could renewing coverage with us. These competitive pressures may adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell our products in the future. Furthermore, the investment
management and securities brokerage businesses have relatively few barriers to entry and continually attract new entrants. See  Business   Competition.    
  The insurance industry distributes many of its individual products through other financial institutions such as banks and
broker-dealers. An increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity may negatively impact the industry s sales, and such consolidation could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and
impair our ability to market insurance products to our current customer base or to expand our customer base. Consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the
terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us.      In addition, since numerous aspects
of our business are subject to regulation, legislative and other changes affecting the regulatory environment for our business may have, over time, the effect of supporting or burdening some aspects of the financial services industry more than
others. This can affect our competitive position within the life insurance industry and within the broader financial services industry. See  Business   U.S. Regulation,   Business   International Regulation, 
   Regulatory and Legal Risks   Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth,  and    Regulatory and Legal Risks   Changes
in U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations, and State Insurance Regulations Regarding Suitability of Annuity Product Sales, May Affect Our Operations and Our Profitability.    
         53   

Table of Contents  

     If Our Business Does Not Perform Well, We May Be Required to Recognize an Impairment
of Our Goodwill or Other Long-Lived Assets or to Establish a Valuation Allowance Against the Deferred Income Tax Asset, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations or Financial Condition     
  Goodwill is the excess of cost over the estimated fair value of net assets acquired which represents the future economic
benefits arising from such net assets acquired that could not be individually identified. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the
business climate, indicate that the implied fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of that reporting unit. We perform our annual goodwill impairment testing during the third quarter of each year based upon data as of the
close of the second quarter. Goodwill associated with a business acquisition is not tested for impairment during the year the business is acquired unless there is a significant identified impairment event. Impairment testing is performed using the
fair value approach, which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the  reporting unit  level. A reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level below the operating segment under certain circumstances.   
  The estimated fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business, which may be adversely
impacted by prolonged market declines. If it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, we must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. Such writedowns could have an adverse effect
on our results of operations or financial position. For instance, for the third quarter of 2012, we reported a $1.6 billion, after tax, goodwill impairment, which reflects the impact of the then current market and economic conditions on the
estimated fair value of our U.S. retail annuity business. This impairment contributed to a net loss of $984 million reported by us for that period. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates   Goodwill  and Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      Long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate, also require impairment testing. This testing is done to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that we will be unable to recover the
carrying amount of the asset group. Such writedowns could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position.      Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they
are realizable. Factors in management s determination include the performance of the business including the ability to generate future taxable income. If, based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax
asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. In addition, changes in the
corporate tax rates could affect the value of our deferred tax assets and may require a write-off of some of those assets. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Summary of
Critical Accounting Estimates   Income Tax.         If Our Business Does Not Perform Well or if Actual Experience
Versus Estimates Used in Valuing and Amortizing DAC, Deferred Sales Inducements ( DSI ) and VOBA Vary Significantly, We May Be Required to Accelerate the Amortization and/or Impair the DAC, DSI and VOBA Which Could Adversely Affect Our
Results of Operations or Financial Condition        We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring
new and renewal insurance business. Costs that are related directly to the successful acquisition of new and renewal insurance business are deferred and referred to as DAC. Bonus amounts credited to certain policyholders, either immediately upon
receiving a deposit or as excess interest credits for a period of time, are deferred and referred to as DSI. The recovery of DAC and DSI is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. The amount of future profit or margin is
dependent principally on investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest crediting rates, dividends paid to policyholders, expenses to administer the
  
         54   

Table of Contents  

business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation. Of these factors, we anticipate that investment returns are most likely to impact the
rate of amortization of such costs. The aforementioned factors enter into management s estimates of gross profits or margins, which generally are used to amortize such costs.   
  If actual gross profits or margins are less than originally expected, then the amortization of such costs would be
accelerated in the period the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to income. Significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of DAC and DSI related to variable annuity and variable
universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. Such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations   Industry Trends   Impact of Sustained Low Interest Rate Environment  for a discussion of how significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected
reporting period.      VOBA represents the excess of book value over the estimated fair value of acquired
insurance, annuity, and investment-type contracts in-force at the acquisition date. The estimated fair value of the acquired liabilities is based on actuarially determined projections, by each block of business, of future policy and contract
charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment returns, nonperformance risk adjustment and other factors. In the event actual experience on the purchased business varies from
these projections, we will be required to revise our estimates, which results in changes to the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which the revisions are made and also could result in a charge to income. In addition, VOBA is amortized
similarly to DAC and DSI. Accordingly, an acceleration of the amortization of VOBA would occur if actual gross profits or margins are less than originally expected. In such a case, the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period in
which the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to net income. Furthermore, significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of the VOBA related to variable annuity and variable
universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. Such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations   Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates   Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired  and Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further consideration of DAC and
VOBA.        Guarantees Within Certain of Our Products May Decrease Our Earnings, Increase the Volatility of Our Results,
Result in Higher Risk Management Costs and Expose Us to Increased Counterparty Risk        Certain of our
variable annuity products include guaranteed benefits, including guaranteed minimum death benefits, guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits, guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits, and guaranteed minimum income benefits. These guarantees are
designed to protect policyholders against significant downturns in equity markets and interest rates. Any such periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or reduced interest rates could result in
an increase in the valuation of our liabilities associated with those products. An increase in these liabilities would result in a decrease in our net income.      We use hedging and risk management strategies to mitigate the liability exposure and the volatility of net income associated with these liabilities. These strategies involve the use of reinsurance and
derivatives, which may not be completely effective. For example, in the event that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits. See    Risks Related to Our Business
  If the Counterparties to Our Reinsurance or Indemnification Arrangements or to the Derivatives We Use to Hedge Our Business Risks Default or Fail to Perform, We May Be Exposed to Risks We Had Sought to Mitigate, Which Could Materially
Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations.       In addition, hedging instruments
may not effectively offset the costs of guarantees or may otherwise be insufficient in relation to our obligations. Furthermore, we are subject to the risk that changes in policyholder   
         55   

Table of Contents  

behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, produce economic losses not addressed by the risk management techniques employed. These, individually or collectively, may have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations, including net income, financial condition or liquidity. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition   Policyholder Liabilities  
Variable Annuity Guarantees  and Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further consideration of the risks associated with guaranteed benefits.       Acquisition-Related Risks         We Could Face Unforeseen Liabilities,
Asset Impairments or Rating Actions Arising from Acquisitions and Dispositions of Businesses or Difficulties Integrating and Managing Growth of Such Businesses     
  We have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the
future. Such activity exposes us to a number of risks. For example, there could be unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments, including goodwill impairments, that arise in connection with the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we
may acquire in the future.      In addition, there may be liabilities or asset impairments that we fail, or are
unable, to discover in the course of performing acquisition-related due diligence investigations. Furthermore, even for obligations and liabilities that we do discover during the due diligence process, neither the valuation adjustment nor the
contractual protections we negotiate may be sufficient to fully protect us from losses. Although we generally have rights to indemnification for certain losses, our rights are limited by survival periods for bringing claims and limitations on the
nature and amount of losses we may recover, and we cannot be certain that indemnification will be, among other things, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any loss we may suffer. For example, we are indemnified
under the stock purchase agreement dated as of March 7, 2010, as amended, by and among MetLife, Inc. AIG and AM Holdings (the  Stock Purchase Agreement ), for various tax matters, including U.S. federal income taxes attributable to
periods during which the ALICO business was included in AIG s consolidated federal income tax return. It is possible, however, that any such indemnification may not be fully collectible.   
  Furthermore, the use of our own funds as consideration in any acquisition would consume capital resources, which could
affect our capital plan and render those funds unavailable for other corporate purposes. We also may not be able to raise sufficient funds to consummate an acquisition if, for example, we are unable to sell our securities or close related bridge
credit facilities. Moreover, as a result of uncertainty and risks associated with potential acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, rating agencies may take certain actions with respect to the ratings assigned to MetLife, Inc. and/or its
subsidiaries.      Our ability to achieve certain benefits we anticipate from any acquisitions of businesses will
depend in large part upon our ability to successfully integrate such businesses in an efficient and effective manner. We may not be able to integrate such businesses smoothly or successfully, and the process may take longer than expected. The
integration of operations and differences in operational culture may require the dedication of significant management resources, which may distract management s attention from day-to-day business. If we are unable to successfully integrate the
operations of such acquired businesses, we may be unable to realize the benefits we expect to achieve as a result of such acquisitions and our business and results of operations may be less than expected.   
  The success with which we are able to integrate acquired operations will depend on our ability to manage a variety of
issues, including the following:       

Loss of key personnel or higher than expected employee attrition rates could adversely affect the performance of the acquired business and our
ability to integrate it successfully.          

Customers of the acquired business may reduce, delay or defer decisions concerning their use of its products and services as a result of the
acquisition or uncertainty related to the consummation of the acquisition, including, for example, potential unfamiliarity with the MetLife brand in regions where we did not have a market presence prior to the acquisition.
     
         56   

Table of Contents  

If the acquired business relies upon independent distributors to distribute its products, these distributors may not continue to generate the same
volume of business for us after the acquisition. Independent distributors may reexamine the scope of their relationship with the acquired business or us as a result of the acquisition and decide to curtail or eliminate distribution of our products.

Integrating acquired operations with our existing operations may require us to coordinate geographically separated organizations, address possible
differences in corporate culture and management philosophies, merge financial processes and risk and compliance procedures, combine separate information technology platforms and integrate operations that were previously closely tied to the former
parent of the acquired business or other service providers.          

In cases where we or an acquired business operates in certain markets through joint ventures, the acquisition may affect the continued success and
prospects of the joint venture. Our ability to exercise management control or influence over these joint venture operations and our investment in them will depend on the continued cooperation between the joint venture participants and on the terms
of the joint venture agreements, which allocate control among the joint venture participants. We may face financial or other exposure in the event that any of these joint venture partners fail to meet their obligations under the joint venture,
encounter financial difficulty or elect to alter, modify or terminate the relationship.          

We may incur significant costs in connection with any acquisition and the related integration. The costs and liabilities actually incurred in
connection with an acquisition and subsequent integration process may exceed those anticipated.         The prospects of our business also may be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to manage the growth of any acquired business successfully. For example, the life insurance markets in many
of the international markets we entered through the ALICO Acquisition have experienced significant growth in recent years. Management of growth in these markets to date has required significant management and operational resources and is likely to
continue to do so. Future growth of our combined business will require, among other things, the continued development of adequate underwriting and claim handling capabilities and skills, sufficient capital base, increased marketing and sales
activities, and the hiring and training of new personnel.      There can be no assurance that we will be
successful in managing future growth of any acquired business. In particular, there may be difficulties in hiring and training sufficient numbers of customer service personnel and agents to keep pace with any future growth in the number of customers
in our developing or developed markets. In addition, we may experience difficulties in upgrading, developing and expanding information technology systems quickly enough to accommodate any future growth. If we are unable to manage future growth, our
prospects may be materially and adversely affected.        The Closing Agreement American Life Entered Into With the IRS May
Not Achieve Its Intended Effect and American Life May Not Be Able to Comply with the Related Agreed Upon Plan        On November 1, 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of American Life from AIG. Prior to this acquisition, in March 2010, American Life entered into a closing agreement (the  Closing
Agreement ) with the Commissioner of the IRS to resolve a U.S. withholding tax issue arising from payments by its foreign branches. IRS Revenue Ruling 2004-75 requires foreign branches of U.S. life insurance companies in certain circumstances
to withhold U.S. income taxes on payments, made with respect to certain insurance and annuity products, to customers resident in a foreign country. The Closing Agreement provides that American Life s foreign branches, now part of MetLife, will
not be required to withhold U.S. income tax on the income portion of payments made pursuant to American Life s life insurance and annuity contracts ( Covered Payments ) for any tax periods beginning on or after January 1, 2005
and ending on or before December 31, 2013 (the  Deferral Period ).      In accordance with the
Closing Agreement, American Life has submitted a plan (and quarterly updates) to the IRS indicating the steps American Life will take (on a country by country basis) to ensure that no substantial
  
         57   

Table of Contents  

amount of U.S. withholding tax will arise from Covered Payments made by American Life s foreign branches to foreign customers after the Deferral Period. The plan American Life delivered to
the IRS involves (i) selling some of its branch businesses and (ii) transferring businesses from certain other of its foreign branches to one or more existing or newly-formed foreign affiliates of American Life. The achievement of the plan
presented to the IRS within the required time frame of December 31, 2013 is contingent upon regulatory approvals and other requirements. Failure to achieve the plan (or an extension) in a timely manner could cause American Life to be required
to withhold U.S. income taxes on the taxable portion of payments with respect to certain insurance and annuity products made by American Life s foreign branches after December 31, 2013 to customers resident in a foreign country. This could
put American Life at a competitive disadvantage with its competitors that sell similar products through foreign entities and could have a material adverse effect on American Life s future revenues or expenses or both. See Note 3 of the Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.        The Settlement of Our Outstanding Common Equity Units Will Have a Dilutive
Impact on MetLife, Inc. s Stockholders        As part of the consideration paid for the ALICO
Acquisition, MetLife, Inc. issued $3.0 billion aggregate stated amount of common equity units, which initially consist of (x) purchase contracts obligating the holder to purchase a variable number of shares of MetLife, Inc. s common stock
on each of three specified future settlement dates (the first settlement date was October 10, 2012 and the other two are expected to occur on September 11, 2013 and October 8, 2014, subject to deferral under certain circumstances) for
a fixed amount per purchase contract (an aggregate of $1.0 billion on each settlement date) (the  Stock Purchase Contracts ) and (y) an interest in each of three series of debt securities of MetLife, Inc. On the first settlement date,
MetLife issued 28,231,956 million shares. After settlement of the remaining purchase contracts, MetLife, Inc. will receive proceeds of $2 billion and issue between 45.2 million and 56.5 million shares of its common stock, subject to
certain adjustments, in addition to the proceeds received and shares issued on the first settlement date in October 2012. As a result, more shares of common stock will be outstanding and each existing stockholder will own a smaller percentage of our
common stock then outstanding. See Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Capital-Related Risks
        We Have Been, and May Continue to be, Prevented from Repurchasing Our Stock and Paying Dividends at the Level We
Wish as a Result of Regulatory Restrictions and Restrictions Under the Terms of Certain of Our Securities        The declaration and payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors, and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, future prospects,
regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends and our other insurance subsidiaries and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. There is no requirement or assurance that we will declare and pay any dividends. In addition, payment of
dividends on our common stock and our ability to repurchase our common stock have been subject to restrictions arising from our regulation as a bank holding company and may again be subject to restrictions arising from Federal Reserve regulation if
we are designated a non-bank SIFI. In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and repurchase our common stock is subject to restrictions arising from the terms of our preferred stock, junior subordinated debentures and trust
securities, so called  dividend stopper  provisions, in situations where we may be experiencing financial stress. For purposes of this discussion,  junior subordinated debentures  are deemed to include MetLife, Inc. s
Fixed-to-Floating Exchangeable Surplus Trust Securities, which are exchangeable for junior subordinated debentures, and which contain terms with the same substantive effects in this discussion as the terms of MetLife s junior subordinated
debentures. In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our preferred stock and interest on our junior subordinated debentures are also restricted by the terms of those securities.   
         58   

Table of Contents  

    Regulatory Restrictions.     The Federal Reserve
has proposed enhanced prudential standards, including heightened capital requirements and stress testing requirements, for non-bank SIFIs. It is possible that these requirements, or any others adopted, could restrict our ability to pay dividends and
repurchase our common stock if we were designated a non-bank SIFI. In addition, MetLife, Inc. may not be able to pay dividends if it does not receive sufficient funds from its operating subsidiaries, which are themselves subject to separate
regulatory restrictions on their ability to pay dividends. See    As A Holding Company, MetLife, Inc. Depends on the Ability of Its Subsidiaries to Transfer Funds to Meet Its Obligations and Pay Dividends.    
    Dividend Stopper  Provisions in Our Preferred Stock and Junior Subordinated
Debentures .    Certain terms of our preferred stock and our junior subordinated debentures may prevent us from purchasing our common stock or paying dividends on our common stock in certain circumstances. Moreover, MetLife,
Inc. is a party to certain replacement capital covenants which limit its ability to eliminate these restrictions through the repayment, redemption or purchase of preferred stock or junior subordinated debentures by requiring MetLife, subject to
certain limitations, to receive cash proceeds during a specified period from the sale of specified replacement securities prior to any repayment, redemption or purchase. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a
description of such covenants in effect with respect to junior subordinated debentures and Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of such restrictions with respect to the preferred stock.   
  Under our preferred stock and junior subordinated debentures, if we have not paid the full dividends on our preferred
stock for a dividend period, we may not repurchase or pay dividends on our common stock for that period. If we have not paid in full the accrued interest through the most recent interest payment date on our junior subordinated debentures, we may not
repurchase or pay dividends on our common stock or other capital stock (including the preferred stock), subject to certain exceptions.       Trigger Events for the Restrictions on the Payment of Dividends on Our Preferred Stock and Restrictions on the Payment of Interest on Our Junior Subordinated Debentures .    In
addition, the preferred stock and the junior subordinated debentures contain provisions that would automatically suspend the payment of preferred stock dividends and junior subordinated debenture interest payments if MetLife, Inc. fails to meet
certain tests ( Trigger Events ) at specified times, although in such cases MetLife would be permitted to make the payments if it were able to utilize the  Alternative Payment Mechanism  described below. As a result of the
suspension of these payments, the  dividend stopper  provisions would come into effect. A  Trigger Event  would occur if the risk-based capital ratio of MetLife s largest U.S. insurance subsidiaries in the aggregate (as
defined in the applicable instrument) were to be less than 175% of the company action level based on the subsidiaries  prior year annual financial statements filed (generally around March 1) with state insurance commissioners. A
 Trigger Event  would also occur if, at the end of a quarter, consolidated GAAP net income for the four-quarter period ending two quarters before such quarter-end is zero or less and adjusted shareholders  equity (as defined in the
applicable instrument), as of such quarter-end and the end of the quarter two quarters before such quarter-end, declined by 10% or more from its level 10 quarters before such quarter-end. The Trigger Event would continue until there is no longer a
Trigger Event at the specified time, and adjusted shareholders  equity is no longer 10% or more below its level at the beginning of each measurement period described above that is associated with a  Trigger Event.    
  In order to use the  Alternative Payment Mechanism  referred to above to declare and pay preferred stock
dividends or interest on junior subordinated debentures, MetLife must sell common stock during the 90 days preceding the dividend declaration date or sell common stock or certain kinds of warrants to purchase common stock during the 180 days prior
to the interest payment date, make dividend or interest payments not in excess of the net proceeds of these sales, and satisfy other specified conditions.       Dividends on Our Preferred Stock Are Subject to Declaration by Our Board of Directors.     In addition to the provisions described above that prevent us from declaring and paying
dividends on our preferred stock, dividends on our preferred stock are subject to declaration each quarter by our Board of Directors. If our Board of Directors   
         59   

Table of Contents  

does not declare dividends on the preferred stock for any quarterly dividend period, the  dividend stopper  provisions in our preferred stock would prevent us from repurchasing or
paying dividends on our common stock for that period.       Optional Deferral of Interest on the Junior
Subordinated Debentures.     The junior subordinated debentures provide that MetLife may, at its option and provided that certain conditions are met, defer payment of interest without giving rise to an event of default for
periods of up to 10 years (although after five years MetLife, Inc. would be obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to sell equity securities to raise proceeds to pay the interest), with no limitation on the number of deferral periods that
MetLife, Inc. may begin so long as all accrued and unpaid interest is paid with respect to prior deferral periods. If MetLife, Inc. were to elect to defer payments of interest, the  dividend stopper  provisions in the junior subordinated
debentures would thus prevent MetLife, Inc. from repurchasing or paying dividends on its common stock or other capital stock (including the preferred stock) during the period of deferral, subject to exceptions.   
  See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about these restrictions.
       As a Holding Company, MetLife, Inc. Depends on the Ability of Its Subsidiaries to Transfer Funds to It to Meet Its
Obligations and Pay Dividends        MetLife, Inc. is a holding company for its insurance and financial
subsidiaries and does not have any significant operations of its own. Dividends from its subsidiaries and permitted payments to it under its tax sharing arrangements with its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its obligations and
to pay preferred and common stock dividends. If the cash MetLife, Inc. receives from its subsidiaries is insufficient for it to fund its debt service and other holding company obligations, MetLife, Inc. may be required to raise cash through the
incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets.      The payment of dividends and
other distributions to MetLife, Inc. by its U.S. insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. In general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits require insurance regulatory approval. In addition, insurance regulators may
prohibit the payment of dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to MetLife, Inc. if they determine that the payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. The payment of dividends and other distributions by
insurance companies is also influenced by business conditions and rating agency considerations. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Insurance Regulation  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   MetLife, Inc.   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Dividends from Subsidiaries.  The ability of MetLife Bank to pay dividends is also subject to regulation by the
OCC. See also    Regulatory and Legal Risks   Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth. 
     Any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our foreign subsidiaries and branches
to MetLife, Inc. could be subject to taxation or other restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdiction in which such foreign
subsidiaries operate. See  Business   International Regulation  and    Risks Related to Our Business   Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and
Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability.    
         60   

Table of Contents  

    General Risks    
    MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors May Control the Outcome of Stockholder Votes on Many Matters Due to the Voting Provisions
of the MetLife Policyholder Trust        Under the Plan, we established the MetLife Policyholder Trust to
hold the shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock allocated to eligible policyholders not receiving cash or policy credits under the plan. As of February 19, 2013, the Trust held 201,024,039 shares, or 18.4%, of the outstanding shares of MetLife,
Inc. common stock. Because of voting provisions of the Trust and the number of shares held by it, the Trust may affect the outcome of matters brought to a stockholder vote. Except on votes regarding certain fundamental corporate actions described
below, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held in the Trust in accordance with the recommendations given by MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors to its stockholders or, if the Board gives no such recommendations, as directed
by the Board. As a result of the voting provisions of the Trust, the Board of Directors may be able to control votes on matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, excluding certain fundamental corporate actions, so long as the Trust holds a
substantial number of shares of common stock.      If the vote relates to fundamental corporate actions specified
in the Trust, the trustee will solicit instructions from the Trust beneficiaries and vote all shares held in the Trust in proportion to the instructions it receives. These actions include:   

an election or removal of directors in which a stockholder has properly nominated one or more candidates in opposition to a nominee or nominees of
MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors or a vote on a stockholder s proposal to oppose a Board nominee for director, remove a director for cause or fill a vacancy caused by the removal of a director by stockholders, subject to certain
conditions;          

a merger or consolidation, a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the assets, or a recapitalization or dissolution, of MetLife,
Inc., in each case requiring a vote of stockholders under applicable Delaware law;          

any transaction that would result in an exchange or conversion of shares of common stock held by the Trust for cash, securities or other property;
and          

any proposal requiring MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors to amend or redeem the rights under MetLife, Inc. s stockholder rights plan,
other than a proposal with respect to which we have received advice of nationally-recognized legal counsel to the effect that the proposal is not a proper subject for stockholder action under Delaware law. MetLife, Inc. does not currently have a
stockholder rights plan.         If a vote concerns any of these fundamental corporate actions, the
trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by the Trust in proportion to the instructions it received, which will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually given by Trust beneficiaries.   
  The MetLife Policyholder Trust Agreement provides that we may terminate the Trust once the percentage of outstanding
shares held in the Trust falls to 25%. The winding up of the Trust must commence 90 days after we provide the trustee with notice that the percentage of outstanding shares held in the Trust is 10% or less. In connection with any termination of the
Trust, all of the shares of common stock then held in the Trust will need to be distributed to the respective Trust beneficiaries, unless we offer to purchase all or a portion of such Trust shares. In connection with such a distribution, we may
incur costs related to an increase in the number of shareholders, which may include increased mailing and proxy solicitation expenses.        Changes in Accounting Standards Issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or Other Standard-Setting Bodies May Adversely Affect Our Financial Statements     
  Our financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP, which is periodically revised and/or expanded.
Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized   
         61   

Table of Contents  

authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board. For instance, we recently adopted new guidance regarding accounting for DAC, which resulted in a reduction of DAC and
total equity. The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our reports filed with the SEC. See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. An assessment of proposed standards
is not provided as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and, therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. The required adoption of future accounting standards could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including on our net income.        Changes in Our
Assumptions Regarding the Discount Rate, Expected Rate of Return and Expected Increase in Compensation Used for Our Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans May Result in Increased Expenses and Reduce Our Profitability     
  We determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on our best estimates of future plan
experience. These assumptions are reviewed regularly and include discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets, expected increases in compensation levels and expected medical inflation. Changes in these assumptions may result in increased
expenses and reduce our profitability. See Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details on how changes in these assumptions would affect plan costs.   
    We May Not be Able to Protect Our Intellectual Property and May be Subject to Infringement Claims     
  We rely on a combination of contractual rights with third parties and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws
to establish and protect our intellectual property. Although we endeavor to protect our rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks,
patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. This would represent a diversion of resources that may be significant and our efforts may not prove successful. The inability to secure or protect our
intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete with other insurers and financial institutions.      In addition, we may be subject to claims by third parties for (i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement, (ii) breach of patent, trademark or copyright license usage rights, or
(iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. Any such claims or resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. If we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual
property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. Alternatively, we could
be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or implement a costly alternative. Any of these scenarios could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.   
    We May Be Unable to Attract and Retain Sales Representatives for Our Products     
  We must attract and retain productive sales representatives to sell our insurance, annuities and investment products.
Insurers compete for sales representatives with demonstrated ability. In addition, there is competition for representatives with other types of financial services firms, such as independent broker-dealers.   
  We compete with other insurers for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial position, support
services and compensation and product features. We continue to undertake several initiatives to enhance the efficiency and production of our existing sales force. These initiatives may not succeed in attracting and retaining new agents. Sales of
individual insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining highly qualified and productive agents. See
 Business   Competition.    
         62   

Table of Contents  

     State Laws, Federal Laws, Our Certificate of Incorporation and Our By-Laws May Delay,
Deter or Prevent Takeovers and Business Combinations that Stockholders Might Consider in Their Best Interests        State laws, federal laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. For instance, such
restrictions may prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of MetLife, Inc. s common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these
provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of MetLife, Inc. s common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.   
  Any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would face various regulatory obstacles, including:

applicable state insurance laws and regulations may delay or impede a business combination involving us by prohibiting an entity from acquiring
control (generally presumed to exist at direct or indirect ownership of 10% or more of voting stock) of an insurance company without the prior approval of the domestic insurance regulator.      

Dodd-Frank provisions that could restrict or impede consolidations, mergers and acquisitions by systemically significant firms, which could apply to
us if we are designated as a non-bank SIFI. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI   Change of Control and Restrictions on Mergers and Acquisitions.       

Provisions of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, that require approval by the contract owners of our variable contracts in order to
effectuate a change of control of any affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying our variable contracts.          

FINRA approval requirements for a change of control of any FINRA registered broker-dealer that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of MetLife, Inc.

Provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may affect the ability of an  interested stockholder  (the owner of 15% or more of the
outstanding voting stock of a corporation) to engage in certain business combinations for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder becomes an  interested stockholder.       
  In addition, MetLife, Inc. s certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contain provisions that may delay, deter
or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests or may otherwise adversely affect prevailing market prices for MetLife, Inc. s common stock. These provisions include: a prohibition on the calling of
special meetings by stockholders; advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates to the Board of Directors and stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; and supermajority voting requirements for the amendment of
certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation and by-laws.        The Continued Threat of Terrorism and Ongoing
Military Actions May Adversely Affect the Value of Our Investment Portfolio and the Level of Claim Losses We Incur        The continued threat of terrorism, both within the U.S. and abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant
volatility in global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. The value of assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the credit
and equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. Companies in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of financial, commercial or economic disruptions and such disruptions might affect
the ability of those companies to pay interest or principal on their securities or mortgage loans. Terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the U.S. or abroad and higher than anticipated
  
         63   

Table of Contents  

claims under our insurance policies. See   Economic Environment and Capital Markets-Related Risks   If Difficult Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy Generally
Persist, They May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations.         The Failure in Cyber- or
Other Information Security Systems, as well as the Occurrence of Events Unanticipated in Our Disaster Recovery Systems and Management Continuity Planning Could Result in a Loss or Disclosure of Confidential Information, Damage to Our Reputation and
Impairment of Our Ability to Conduct Business Effectively        Our business is highly dependent upon the
effective operation of our computer systems. We rely on these systems throughout our business for a variety of functions, including processing claims and applications, providing information to customers and distributors, performing actuarial
analyses and maintaining financial records. We also retain confidential and proprietary information on our computer systems and we rely on sophisticated technologies to maintain the security of that information. Our computer systems have been, and
will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access, cyber-attacks or other computer-related penetrations. While, to date, MetLife has not experienced a material breach of cybersecurity,
administrative and technical controls and other preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber-incidents and protect our information technology may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security
breaches to our computer systems.      In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, epidemic,
industrial accident, blackout, computer virus, terrorist attack, cyberattack or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations
and financial position, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. In addition, in the event that a significant number of our managers were
unavailable following a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. These interruptions also may interfere with our suppliers  ability to provide goods and services and our employees  ability to
perform their job responsibilities.      The failure of our computer systems and/or our disaster recovery plans
for any reason could cause significant interruptions in our operations and result in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers. Such a failure could
harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions and legal claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. While we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides both
third-party liability and first party liability coverages, our insurance may not be sufficient to protect us against all losses.        Our Associates May Take Excessive Risks Which Could Negatively Affect Our Financial Condition and Business     
  As an insurance enterprise, we are in the business of accepting certain risks. The associates who conduct our business,
including executive officers and other members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, product managers, sales agents, and other associates, do so in part by making decisions and choices that involve exposing us to risk. These
include decisions such as setting underwriting guidelines and standards, product design and pricing, determining what assets to purchase for investment and when to sell them, which business opportunities to pursue, and other decisions. We endeavor,
in the design and implementation of our compensation programs and practices, to avoid giving our associates incentives to take excessive risks; however, associates may take such risks regardless of the structure of our compensation programs and
practices. Similarly, although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor associates  business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks, these controls and procedures may not be effective. If our associates take excessive
risks, the impact of those risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business operations.   
         64   

Table of Contents  

      Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments
      MetLife has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the
Exchange Act.         Item 2.  Properties    
  We lease 410,000 rentable square feet on 12 floors in an office building in Manhattan, New York, which is occupied by all
of the Company s segments, as well as Corporate   Other. The term of that lease commenced during 2008 and continues for 21 years. In August 2009, we subleased 32,000 rentable square feet of that space to a subtenant, which has met our
standards of review with respect to creditworthiness and we currently have approximately 33,000 rentable square feet of the 410,000 rentable square feet available for sublease. We moved certain operations from our Long Island City, New York
facility, to the Manhattan space in late 2008, but continue to maintain an on-going presence in Long Island City. Our lease in Long Island City covers 686,000 rentable square feet, which is occupied by Corporate   Other, under a long-term
lease arrangement that commenced during 2003 and continues for 20 years. With our occupancy and the subtenants we have secured, we are fully subscribed at the Long Island City location.   
  Our 200 Park Avenue property, which houses the Company s boardroom, is occupied by the Americas and
Corporate   Other. We have retained rights to existing signage and are leasing space for associates in the property for 20 years with optional renewal periods through 2205.   
  We continue to own 15 other buildings in the U.S. that we use in the operation of our business. These buildings contain
approximately four million rentable square feet and are located in the following states: Connecticut, Florida, Illinois, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island. Our computer center in Rensselaer, New York is
not owned in fee but rather is occupied pursuant to a long-term ground lease. We lease space in 409 other locations throughout the U.S., and these leased facilities consist of 7 million rentable square feet. Approximately 75% of these leases
are occupied as sales offices for the Company s U.S. business operations. The balance of space is utilized for corporate functions supporting business activities. We also own 68 properties outside the U.S., including 10 significant properties,
as well as smaller facilities and condominium units. We lease approximately 1,100 sites in various locations outside the U.S. We believe that these properties are suitable and adequate for our current and anticipated business operations.   
  We arrange for property   casualty coverage on our properties, taking into consideration our risk exposures and
the cost and availability of commercial coverages, including deductible loss levels. In connection with the renewal of those coverages, we have arranged $700 million of property insurance, including coverage for terrorism, on our real estate
portfolio through May 1, 2013, its renewal date.         Item 3.  Legal Proceedings
      See Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
     Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures    
  Not applicable.   
         65   

Table of Contents  

    Part II          Item 5.  Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    
    Issuer Common Equity        MetLife, Inc. s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, began trading on the NYSE under the symbol  MET  on April 5, 2000.   
  The following table presents high and low closing prices for the common stock on the NYSE for the periods indicated:

At February 19, 2013, there were 89,266 stockholders of record of common stock.
     The table below presents dividend declaration, record and payment dates, as well as per share and aggregate
dividend amounts, for the common stock:       
    The declaration and payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of
Directors, and will depend on MetLife, Inc. s financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, future prospects, regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by MetLife, Inc. s other insurance subsidiaries and other
factors deemed relevant by the Board. The payment of dividends and other distributions by MetLife, Inc. to its security holders may be subject to the Federal Reserve if, in the future, MetLife, Inc. is designated as a non-bank SIFI. See
 Business   U.S Regulation   Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI.  Also see Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding MetLife, Inc. s de-registration as a bank holding
company. The payment of dividends is also subject to restrictions under the terms of our preferred stock and junior subordinated debentures in the event we are experiencing financial stress .  See  Risk Factors   Capital-Related Risks
  We Have Been, and May Continue to be, Prevented from Repurchasing Our Stock and Paying Dividends at the Level We Wish as a Result of Regulatory Restrictions and Restrictions Under the Terms of Certain of Our Securities  and Note 16 of
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. See also  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity and Capital
Uses   Dividends  and Note 23 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding preferred and common stock dividends.   
  See Item 12 for information about our equity compensation plans.   
         66   

Table of Contents  

     Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     
  Purchases of common stock made by or on behalf of MetLife, Inc. or its affiliates during the quarter ended
December 31, 2012 are set forth below:       

(1)  
    During the periods October 1 through October 31, 2012, November 1 through November 30, 2012 and December 1 through
December 31, 2012, separate account and other affiliates of MetLife, Inc. purchased 7,883 shares, 1,079 shares and 19,601 shares, respectively, of common stock on the open market in nondiscretionary transactions to rebalance
index funds. Except as disclosed above, there were no shares of common stock which were repurchased by the Company.          

(2)  
    At December 31, 2012, MetLife, Inc. had $1.3 billion remaining under its common stock repurchase program authorizations. In April 2008,
MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors authorized an additional $1.0 billion common stock repurchase program, which will begin after the completion of the January 2008 $1.0 billion common stock repurchase program, of which
$261 million remained outstanding at December 31, 2012. Under these authorizations, MetLife, Inc. may purchase its common stock from the MetLife Policyholder Trust, in the open market (including pursuant to the terms of a pre-set trading
plan meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) and in privately negotiated transactions. Any future common stock repurchases will be dependent upon several factors, including our capital position,
liquidity, financial strength and credit ratings, general market conditions, the market price of MetLife, Inc. s common stock compared to management s assessment of the stock s underlying value and applicable regulatory approvals, as
well as other legal and accounting factors. See  Risk Factors   Capital-Related Risks   We Have Been, and May Continue to be, Prevented from Repurchasing Our Stock and Paying Dividends at the Level We Wish as a Result of Regulatory
Restrictions and Restrictions Under the Terms of Certain of Our Securities  and Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      
         67   

Table of Contents  

      Item 6.  Selected Financial Data    
  The following selected financial data has been derived from the Company s audited consolidated financial statements.
The statement of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, and the balance sheet data at December 31, 2012 and 2011 have been derived from the Company s audited consolidated financial statements included
elsewhere herein. The statement of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the balance sheet data at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 have been derived from the Company s audited consolidated financial
statements not included herein. The selected financial data set forth below should be read in conjunction with  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and the audited consolidated
financial statements and related notes included elsewhere herein.       
 
         68   

Table of Contents  

(1)  
    On November 1, 2010, MetLife, Inc. acquired ALICO. The results of the ALICO Acquisition are reflected in the selected financial data from the
ALICO Acquisition Date. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.          

(2)  
    Total assets and long-term debt include amounts relating to variable interest entities as follows at:      

(3)  
    Policyholder liabilities and other policy-related balances include future policy benefits, policyholder account balances, other policy-related
balances, policyholder dividends payable and the policyholder dividend obligation.          

(4)  
    Return on MetLife, Inc. s common equity is defined as net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc. s common shareholders divided by
MetLife, Inc. s average common stockholders  equity.          

(5)  
    For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2010, all shares related to the assumed issuance of shares in settlement of the applicable purchase
contracts have been excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share as these assumed shares are anti-dilutive. For the year ended December 31, 2009, shares related to the assumed exercise or issuance of stock-based awards
have been excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share, as to include such assumed shares would be anti-dilutive.      
         69   

Table of Contents  

      Item 7.  Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations          Index to Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations        

Page Number     

Forward-Looking Statements and Other Financial Information    
     
  71   
 
     Executive Summary    
     
  71   
 
     Industry Trends    
     
  74   
 
     Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates    
     
  82   
 
     Economic Capital    
     
  92   
 
     Acquisitions and Dispositions    
     
  93   
 
     Results of Operations    
     
  94   
 
     Effects of Inflation    
     
  120   
 
     Investments    
     
  120   
 
     Derivatives    
     
  141   
 
     Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements    
     
  143   
 
     Insolvency Assessments    
     
  144   
 
     Policyholder Liabilities    
     
  144   
 
     Liquidity and Capital Resources    
     
  153   
 
     Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements    
     
  173   
 
     Future Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements    
     
  173   
 
     Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures    
     
  174   
 
     Subsequent Events    
     
  175   
 
         70   

Table of Contents  

      Forward-Looking Statements and Other Financial Information
      For purposes of this discussion,  MetLife,  the  Company,   we, 
 our  and  us  refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999, its subsidiaries and affiliates. Following this summary is a discussion addressing the consolidated results of operations and financial condition
of the Company for the periods indicated. This discussion should be read in conjunction with  Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,   Risk Factors,   Selected Financial Data  and the Company s consolidated
financial statements included elsewhere herein.      This Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations may contain or incorporate by reference information that includes or is based upon forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements
give expectations or forecasts of future events. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as  anticipate,   estimate,   expect, 
 project,   intend,   plan,   believe  and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements
relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, trends in operations and
financial results. Any or all forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. See  Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. 
     This Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations includes
references to our performance measures, operating earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders, that are not based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ). Operating earnings
is the measure of segment profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. Consistent with GAAP accounting guidance for segment reporting, operating earnings is our measure of segment performance. Operating earnings is
also a measure by which senior management s and many other employees  performance is evaluated for the purposes of determining their compensation under applicable compensation plans. See    Non-GAAP and Other Financial
Disclosures  for definitions of such measures.         Executive Summary    
  MetLife is a leading global provider of insurance, annuities and employee benefit programs throughout the United States,
Japan, Latin America, Asia, Europe and the Middle East. Through its subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife offers life insurance, annuities, property   casualty insurance, and other financial services to individuals, as well as group
insurance and retirement   savings products and services to corporations and other institutions.   
  MetLife is organized into six segments, reflecting three broad geographic regions: Retail; Group, Voluntary  
Worksite Benefits; Corporate Benefit Funding; and Latin America (collectively, the  Americas  Asia; and Europe, the Middle East and Africa ( EMEA ). In addition, the Company reports certain of its results of operations in
Corporate   Other, which includes MetLife Bank, National Association ( MetLife Bank ) (see Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding MetLife Bank s exit from certain of its
businesses (the  MetLife Bank Divestiture )) and other business activities. Management continues to evaluate the Company s segment performance and allocated resources and may adjust related measurements in the future to better reflect
segment profitability.      On November 1, 2010 (the  ALICO Acquisition Date ), MetLife, Inc.
completed the acquisition of American Life Insurance Company ( American Life ) from AM Holdings LLC (formerly known as ALICO Holdings LLC) ( AM Holdings ), a subsidiary of American International Group, Inc. ( AIG ), and
Delaware American Life Insurance Company ( DelAm ) from AIG (American Life, together with DelAm, collectively,  ALICO ) (the  ALICO Acquisition ). The assets, liabilities and operating results relating to the ALICO
Acquisition are   
         71   

Table of Contents  

included in the Latin America, Asia and EMEA segments. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  Certain international subsidiaries have a fiscal year-end of November 30. Accordingly, the Company s
consolidated financial statements reflect the assets and liabilities of such subsidiaries as of November 30, 2012 and 2011 and the operating results of such subsidiaries for the years ended November 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010.   
  We continue to experience an increase in sales in several of our businesses; however, global economic conditions continue
to negatively impact the demand for some of our products. Portfolio growth, resulting from strong sales in the majority of our businesses, drove positive investment results and higher asset-based fee revenue. Changes in interest rates and the impact
of the nonperformance risk adjustment on variable annuity embedded derivatives resulted in significant derivative losses. In addition, a goodwill impairment charge was recorded in the current year, as well as a charge associated with the global
review of assumptions related to deferred policy acquisition costs ( DAC ), reserves and certain intangibles.       

(1)  
    See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses for the components of such adjustments.      
    Year Ended December 31, 2012 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2011     
  During the year ended December 31, 2012, income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, decreased $5.1
billion from the prior year. The change was predominantly due to a $6.7 billion ($4.4 billion, net of income tax), unfavorable change in net derivative gains (losses) primarily driven by changes in interest rates, the weakening of the U.S. dollar
and Japanese yen, equity market movements, decreased volatility and the impact of a nonperformance risk adjustment. In addition, the current year includes a $1.9 billion ($1.6 billion, net of income tax) non-cash charge for goodwill impairment
associated with our U.S. retail annuities business. The current year also includes a $1.2 billion ($752 million, net of income tax) charge associated with the global review of assumptions related to DAC, reserves and certain intangibles, of which
$526 million ($342 million, net of income tax) was reflected in net derivative gains (losses). Also included in income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, were the unfavorable results of the discontinued operations and other
businesses that have been or will be sold or exited by MetLife, Inc. ( Divested Businesses ), which decreased $724 million ($476 million, net of income tax) from the prior year. These declines were partially offset by a $1.0 billion, net
of income tax, increase in operating earnings available to common shareholders.      The increase in operating
earnings available to common shareholders was primarily driven by improved investment results and higher asset-based fee revenue as strong sales levels drove portfolio growth. In addition, the low interest rate environment resulted in lower average
interest credited rates. Despite the impact of Superstorm Sandy, catastrophe losses were lower in 2012 as compared to the significant weather-related claims in 2011. In addition, the prior year included a $117 million, net of income tax, charge in
connection with the Company s use of the U.S. Social Security Administration s Death Master File. The prior year also included   
         72   

Table of Contents  

$40 million, net of income tax, of expenses incurred related to a liquidation plan filed by the New York State Department of Financial Services (the  Department of Financial
Services ) for Executive Life Insurance Company of New York ( ELNY ). Current year results include a $52 million, net of income tax, charge representing a multi-state examination payment related to unclaimed property and
MetLife s use of the U.S. Social Security Administration s Death Master File to identify potential life insurance claims, as well as the expected acceleration of benefit payments to policyholders under the settlements. The current
year also includes a $50 million, net of income tax, impairment charge on an intangible asset related to a previously acquired dental business.        Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2010        During the year ended December 31, 2011, income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, increased $3.8 billion over 2010. The change was predominantly due to a $5.1 billion ($3.3
billion, net of income tax) favorable change in net derivative gains (losses) primarily due to the impact of falling long-term and mid-term interest rates and equity market movements and volatility. In addition, a $1.1 billion, net of income tax,
favorable change in operating earnings available to common shareholders, which includes the impact of the ALICO Acquisition, also contributed to the increase.      The ALICO Acquisition drove the majority of the $1.1 billion increase in operating earnings available to common shareholders. In addition, improved investment performance was driven by portfolio growth
resulting from increased sales across many of our businesses, which more than offset the negative impact of the declining interest rate environment on yields. Current year results were negatively impacted by severe weather, as well as, in the third
quarter of 2011, a charge to increase reserves in connection with the Company s use of the U.S. Social Security Administration s Death Master File and similar databases to identify potential life insurance claims that have not been
presented to the Company and expenses incurred related to a liquidation plan filed by the Department of Financial Services for ELNY.        Consolidated Company Outlook        In 2013, despite
pressure from low interest rates, we expect operating earnings to be in line with 2012, driven primarily by the following:       

Growth in premiums, fees and other revenues driven by:      

Rational pricing strategy in the group insurance marketplace;      

Increases in our businesses outside of the U.S., notably accident   health, from continuing organic growth throughout our various
geographic regions and leveraging of our multichannel distribution network.          

Expanding our presence in emerging markets, including potential merger and acquisition activity.      

Focus on disciplined underwriting. We see no significant changes to the underlying trends that drive underwriting results; however, unanticipated
catastrophes, similar to Superstorm Sandy could result in a high volume of claims.          

Focus on expense management in the light of the low interest rate environment, and continue to focus on expense control throughout the Company.

Continued disciplined approach to investing and asset/liability management ( ALM ), including significant hedging to protect against low
interest rates and the purchasing of derivatives to protect against higher interest rates.      
  We expect only modest investment losses in 2013, but more difficult to predict is the impact of potential changes in fair
value of freestanding and embedded derivatives as even relatively small movements in market variables, including interest rates, equity levels and volatility, can have a large impact on the fair value of
  
         73   

Table of Contents  

derivatives and net derivative gains (losses). Additionally, changes in fair value of embedded derivatives within certain insurance liabilities may have a material impact on net derivative gains
(losses) related to the inclusion of a nonperformance risk adjustment.      As part of an enterprise-wide
strategic initiative, by 2016, we expect to increase our operating return on common equity to the low end of the 12% to 14% range, driven by higher operating earnings. If we were to assume no share buybacks through year-end 2016, our estimated
operating return on equity target range for 2016 would be approximately 100 basis points lower than this previously noted range, all other assumptions held constant. We will leverage our scale to improve the value we provide to customers and
shareholders in order to achieve $1 billion in efficiencies, $600 million of which is expected to be related to net pre-tax expense savings, and $400 million of which we expect to be reinvested in our technology, platforms and functionality to
improve our current operations and develop new capabilities. Additionally, we will shift our product mix toward protection products and away from more capital-intensive products, in order to generate more predictable operating earnings and cash
flows, and improve our risk profile and free cash flow. We expect that by 2016, more than 20% of our operating earnings will come from emerging markets.        Impact of Superstorm Sandy        On October 29,
2012, Superstorm Sandy made landfall in the Northeastern United States causing extensive property damage. MetLife s property   casualty business  gross losses from Superstorm Sandy were approximately $150 million, before income
tax. As of December 31, 2012, we recognized total net losses related to the catastrophe of $90 million, net of income tax and reinsurance recoverables and including reinstatement premiums, which impacted the Retail and Group,
Voluntary   Worksite Benefits segments. The Retail and Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits segments recorded net losses related to the catastrophe of $49 million and $41 million, each net of income tax reinsurance recoverables and
reinstatement premiums, respectively.      Additional storm-related losses may be recorded in future periods as
claims are received from insureds and claims to reinsurers are processed. Reinsurance recoveries are dependent on the continued creditworthiness of the reinsurers, which may be affected by their other reinsured losses in connection with Superstorm
Sandy and otherwise.         Industry Trends    
  We continue to be impacted by the unstable global financial and economic environment that has been affecting the
industry.        Financial and Economic Environment     
  Our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the
economy generally. Stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in global capital markets, particular markets, or financial asset classes can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and our insurance
liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. Global market factors, including interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, consumer spending, business investment, government spending,
the volatility and strength of the capital markets, deflation and inflation, all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. Disruptions in one market or asset class can also spread to
other markets or asset classes. Upheavals in the financial markets can also affect our business through their effects on general levels of economic activity, employment and customer behavior. While our diversified business mix and geographically
diverse business operations partially mitigate these risks, correlation across regions, countries and global market factors may reduce the benefits of diversification.   
  Financial markets have also been affected by concerns over U.S. fiscal policy. While uncertainty regarding the
 fiscal cliff  (a series of tax increases and automatic government spending cuts that would have become effective at the beginning of 2013) has been abated following a last minute Congressional compromise on January 1,
  
         74   

Table of Contents  

questions over the direction of U.S. fiscal policy remain as a result of further Congressional action that will be needed to again raise the U.S. federal government s debt ceiling by August
2013. Unless steps are taken to raise the debt ceiling and reduce the federal deficit, rating agencies have warned of the possibility of future downgrades of U.S. Treasury securities. These issues could, on their own, or combined with the slowing of
the global economy generally, send the U.S. into a new recession, have severe repercussions to the U.S. and global credit and financial markets, further exacerbate concerns over sovereign debt of other countries and disrupt economic activity in the
U.S. and elsewhere.      In September 2012, Moody s Investors Service ( Moody s ) changed its
outlook for the U.S. life insurance industry to negative from stable, saying it expects interest rates to remain in the low single digits for the next few years, depressing such companies  earnings. In June 2012, Moody s announced that it
downgraded the long-term ratings and standalone credit for a number of banks and securities firms with global capital markets operations. Through our ongoing credit evaluation process, we have been closely monitoring our financial institution
investment holdings, including the impact of the Moody s downgrades to these institutions, and do not expect these downgrades to have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   
  Concerns about economic conditions, capital markets and the solvency of certain European Union member states, including
Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain ( Europe s perimeter region ) and Cyprus, and of financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by these countries, have been a cause of elevated
levels of market volatility. See    Investments   Current Environment  for information regarding credit ratings downgrades, support programs for Europe s perimeter region and our exposure to obligations of European
governments and private obligors. The financial markets have also been affected by concerns that other European Union member states could experience similar financial troubles, that some countries could default on their obligations, have to
restructure their outstanding debt, or be unable or unwilling to comply with the terms of any aid provided to them, that financial institutions with significant holdings of sovereign or private debt issued by borrowers in Europe s perimeter
region could experience financial stress, or that one or more countries may exit the Euro zone, any of which could have significant adverse effects on the European and global economies and on financial markets, generally. In September 2012, the
European Central Bank ( ECB ) announced a new bond buying program, Outright Monetary Transactions, intended to stabilize the European financial crisis and help certain countries struggling with their levels of sovereign debt. This program
involves the purchase by the ECB of unlimited quantities of short-term sovereign bonds, with maturities of one to three years. These large scale purchases of short-term sovereign bonds are intended to increase the price of the bonds, and lower their
interest rates, making it less expensive for certain countries to borrow money. As a condition to participating in this program, countries must agree to strict levels of economic reform and oversight. See  Risk Factors   Economic
Environment and Capital Markets-Related Risks   We Are Exposed to Significant Financial and Capital Markets Risk Which May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Financial Condition and Liquidity, and May Cause Our Net Investment Income to
Vary from Period to Period.       The Japanese economy, to which we face substantial exposure given our
operations there, has experienced weak economic performance for over two decades and a long period of deflation, which have led to a deterioration in public finances. The global financial crisis and March 2011 earthquake further pressured
Japan s budget outcomes and public debt levels. Going forward, Japan s structural and demographic challenges may continue to limit its potential growth unless reforms that boost productivity are put into place. Japan s high public
sector debt levels are mitigated by low refinancing risks and its nominal yields on government debt have remained at a lower level than that of any other advanced country. However, frequent changes in government have prevented policy makers from
implementing fiscal reform measures to put public finances on a sustainable path. In January 2013, the government and the Bank of Japan pledged to strengthen policy coordination to end deflation and to achieve sustainable economic growth. This was
followed by the announcement of a supplementary budget stimulus program totaling 2% of gross domestic product and the adoption of a 2% inflation target by the Bank of Japan. Although the yen has weakened and the stock market has rallied on the back
of these announcements, it is too soon to tell whether these actions will have a sustained impact on Japan s economy. Japan s public debt trajectory could continue to rise until a strategy to boost longer term growth is implemented.
  
         75   

Table of Contents  

     Impact of a Sustained Low Interest Rate Environment     
  As a global insurance company, we are affected by the monetary policy of central banks around the world. In the United
States, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve Board ) has taken a number of actions in recent years to spur economic activity by keeping interest rates low and may take further actions to influence
interest rates in the future, which may have an impact on the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments, and may adversely impact the level of product sales.      In December 2012, the Federal Reserve Board s Federal Open Market Committee ( FOMC ) reiterated its plan to keep interest rates low until such time as certain numerical thresholds are met,
including with respect to the rates of unemployment, inflation and long-term inflation. It also announced that it will continue purchasing agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $40 billion per month and will purchase longer-term U.S.
Treasury securities at a pace of $45 billion per month. Taken together, these actions are intended to maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and contribute to a broad easing of financial market conditions
that could provide additional stimulus to support the economic recovery. Based on the FOMC s January 2013 meeting, however, it is possible that the extent of this quantitative easing could be varied in amount, gradually reduced, or even ended
earlier than originally anticipated depending on the pace of economic recovery, including substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market.      Central banks in other parts of the world, including the ECB, the Bank of England, the Bank of Japan, the Bank of Australia, the Central Bank of Brazil and the Central Bank of China, have followed the
recent actions of the Federal Reserve Board to lower interest rates. The collective effort globally to lower interest rates was in response to concerns about Europe s sovereign debt crisis and slowing global economic growth. We cannot predict
with certainty the effect of these programs and policies on interest rates or the impact on the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments at this time. See    Investments   Current Environment.    
  In periods of declining interest rates, we may have to invest insurance cash flows and reinvest the cash flows we
received as interest or return of principal on our investments in lower yielding instruments. Moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the fixed income securities, commercial or agricultural mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities in our
investment portfolio with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates. Therefore, some of our products expose us to the risk that a reduction in interest rates will reduce the difference between the amounts that we are required to
credit on contracts in our general account and the rate of return we are able to earn on investments intended to support obligations under these contracts. This difference between interest earned and interest credited, or margin, is a key metric for
the management of, and reporting for, many of our businesses.      Our expectations regarding future margins are
an important component impacting the amortization of certain intangible assets such as DAC and value of business acquired ( VOBA ). Significantly lower margins may cause us to accelerate the amortization, thereby reducing net income in the
affected reporting period. Additionally, lower margins may also impact the recoverability of intangible assets such as goodwill, require the establishment of additional liabilities or trigger loss recognition events on certain policyholder
liabilities. We review this long-term margin assumption, along with other assumptions, as part of our annual assumption review. Although the analysis shown below considers low interest rates in 2013 and 2014, it does not assume any change to our
long-term assumption for margins. As a result, the impact of a hypothetical interest rate stress scenario described below does not capture the impact of any of the aforementioned items.   
   Mitigating Actions.  The Company has been and continues to be proactive in its investment strategies, product
designs, and interest crediting rate strategies to mitigate the risk of unfavorable consequences from the low interest rate environment. Lowering interest crediting rates on some products, or adjusting the dividend scale on traditional products, can
help offset decreases in investment margins on some products. Our ability to lower interest crediting rates could be limited by competition, regulatory approval, or contractual guarantees of minimum rates and may not match the timing or magnitude of
changes in asset yields. As a result, our margins could decrease or potentially become negative. The Company applies disciplined ALM strategies, including the   
         76   

Table of Contents  

use of derivatives, primarily interest rate swaps, floors and swaptions, to mitigate the risk of sustained low interest rates in the U.S. A significant portion of these derivatives were entered
into prior to the onset of the current low U.S. interest rate environment. In some cases, the Company has entered into offsetting positions as part of its overall ALM strategy and to reduce volatility in net income. Business actions, such as
shifting the sales focus to less interest rate sensitive products, can also mitigate this risk. In addition, the Company is well diversified across product, distribution, and geography. Certain of our non-U.S. businesses, reported within our Latin
America and EMEA segments, which accounted for approximately 15% of our operating earnings in 2012, are not significantly interest rate or market sensitive, particularly to any direct sensitivity to U.S. rates. The Company s primary exposure
within these segments is insurance risk. We expect our non-U.S. businesses to grow faster than our U.S. businesses and, over time, to become a larger percentage of our total business. As a result of the foregoing, the Company expects to be able to
substantially mitigate the negative impact of a sustained low interest rate environment in the U.S. on the Company s profitability. Based on a near to intermediate term analysis of a sustained lower interest rate environment in the U.S., the
Company anticipates operating earnings will continue to increase, although at a slower growth rate.        Interest Rate
Stress Scenario        The following summarizes the impact of a hypothetical interest rate stress scenario
on our operating earnings and the mark-to-market impact of our derivative positions that do not qualify as accounting hedges assuming a continued low interest rate environment in the U.S.   
  The hypothetical interest rate stress scenario is based on a constant set of U.S. interest rates and credit spreads in
the U.S., as compared to our business plan interest rates and credit spreads, which are based on consensus interest rate view and credit spreads as of October 31, 2012. For example, our business plan assumes a 10-year treasury rate of 1.69% at
December 31, 2012 to rise during 2013 to 2.38% by December 31, 2013 and remain at 2.38% until December 31, 2014. The hypothetical interest rate stress scenario assumes the 10-year treasury rate to be 1.69% at December 31, 2012
and remain constant at that level until December 31, 2014. We make similar assumptions for interest rates at other maturities, and hold this interest rate curve constant through December 31, 2014. In addition, in the interest rate stress
scenario, we assume credit spreads remain constant from December 2012 through the end of 2014, as compared to our business plan which assumes rising credit spreads through 2013 and thereafter remaining constant through the end of 2014. Further, we
also are including the impact of low interest rates on our pension and post-retirement plan expenses. We allocate this impact across our segments; it is included in the segment discussion below. The discount rate used to value these plans is tied to
long-term high quality corporate bond yields. Accordingly, an extended low interest rate environment will result in increased pension and other post-retirement benefit liabilities and expenses. Higher total return on the fixed income portfolio of
pension and other post-retirement benefit plan assets will partially offset this increase in pension and other post-retirement plan liabilities.      Based on the above assumptions, we estimate the impact of the hypothetical U.S. interest rate stress scenario on our consolidated operating earnings to be a decrease of approximately $45 million and $150
million in 2013 and 2014, respectively.      As previously mentioned, operating earnings is the measure of segment
profit and loss that we use to evaluate segment performance and allocated resources. Further, we believe the presentation of operating earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders as we measure it for management purposes enhances
the understanding of our performance by highlighting the results of operations and the underlying profitability drivers of our business. The most directly comparable GAAP measure is not accessible on a forward-looking basis because we believe it is
not possible to provide other than a range of net investment gains and losses and net derivative gains and losses, which can fluctuate significantly within or outside the range from period to period and may have a significant impact on GAAP net
income. See    Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures  for definitions of such measures.   
         77   

Table of Contents  

   In addition to the impact on operating earnings, we estimated the effect on
the mark-to-market impact of our derivative positions that do not qualify as accounting hedges. We applied the hypothetical U.S. interest rate stress scenario to these derivatives and compared the impact to that based on rates in our business plan.
We hold a significant position in long duration receive-fixed interest rate swaps to hedge reinvestment risk. These swaps are most sensitive to the 30-year and 10-year swap rates and we recognize gains as rates drop and recognize losses as rates
rise. This estimated impact on the derivative mark-to-market does not include that of our VA program derivatives as the impact of low interest rates in the freestanding derivatives would be largely offset by the mark-to-market in earnings for the
related embedded derivative. See    Results of Operations   Consolidated Results  for discussions on our net derivative gains and losses.      Based on these additional assumptions, we estimate the impact of the hypothetical U.S. interest rate stress scenario on the mark-to-market of our derivative positions that do not qualify as accounting
hedges to be an increase in income of $450 million to $850 million and a decrease in income of $200 million to an increase in income of $200 million in 2013 and 2014, respectively.   
   Segments and Corporate   Other       The following discussion summarizes the impact of the above hypothetical U.S. interest rate stress scenario on the operating earnings of our segments, as well as Corporate   Other. See also
   Policyholder Liabilities   Policyholder Account Balances  for information regarding the account values subject to minimum guaranteed credited rates.       Retail       Life   Other   Our interest rate
sensitive products include traditional life, universal life, and retained asset accounts. Because the majority of our traditional life insurance business is participating, we can largely offset lower investment returns on assets backing our
traditional life products through adjustments to the applicable dividend scale. In our universal life products, we manage interest rate risk through a combination of product design features and ALM strategies, including the use of hedges such as
interest rate swaps and floors. While the Company has the ability to lower crediting rates on certain in-force universal life policies to mitigate margin compression, such actions would be partially offset by increases in our liabilities related to
those with secondary guarantees. Our retained asset accounts have minimum interest crediting rate guarantees which range from 1.5% to 3.0%, all of which are currently at their respective minimum interest crediting rates. While we expect to
experience margin compression as we re-invest at lower rates, interest rate floors purchased in this portfolio will partially mitigate this risk.      Annuities   The impact on operating earnings from margin compression is concentrated in our deferred annuities where there are minimum interest rate guarantees. Under low U.S. interest rate
scenarios, we assume that a larger percentage of customers will maintain their funds with the Company to take advantage of the attractive minimum guaranteed rates and we expect to experience margin compression as we reinvest cash flows at lower
interest rates. Partially offsetting this margin compression, we assume we will lower crediting rates on their contractual reset dates for the portion of business that is not currently at minimum crediting rates. Additionally, we have various
derivative positions, primarily interest rate floors, to partially mitigate this risk. Reinvestment risk is defined here as the amount of reinvestment in 2013 and 2014 that would impact operating earnings due to reinvesting cash flows in the
hypothetical interest rate stress scenario. For the deferred annuities business, $1.3 billion and $2.3 billion in 2013 and 2014, respectively of the asset base will be subject to reinvestment risk on an average asset base of $37.6 billion and $37.2
billion in 2013 and 2014, respectively.      We estimate an unfavorable operating earnings impact in our Retail
segment from the hypothetical U.S. interest rate stress scenario noted above of $15 million and $60 million in 2013 and 2014, respectively.   
         78   

Table of Contents  

    Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits    
  Group   In general, most of our group life insurance products in this segment are renewable term insurance and,
therefore, have significant repricing flexibility. Interest rate risk mainly arises from minimum interest rate guarantees on retained asset accounts. These accounts have minimum interest crediting rate guarantees which range from 0.5% to 3.0%. All
of these account balances are currently at their respective minimum interest crediting rates and we expect to experience margin compression as we reinvest at lower interest rates. We have used interest rate floors to partially mitigate the risks of
a sustained U.S. low interest rate environment. We also have exposure to interest rate risk in this business arising from our group disability policy claim reserves. For these products, lower reinvestment rates cannot be offset by a reduction in
liability crediting rates for established claim reserves. Group disability policies are generally renewable term policies. Rates may be adjusted on in-force policies at renewal based on the retrospective experience rating and current interest rate
assumptions. We review the discount rate assumptions and other assumptions associated with our long-term disability claim reserves no less frequently than annually. Our most recent review at the end of 2012 resulted in no change to the applicable
discount rates.      Voluntary   Worksite   We have exposure to interest rate risk in this business
arising mainly from our long-term care ( LTC ) policy reserves. For these products, lower reinvestment rates cannot be offset by a reduction in liability crediting rates for established claim reserves. LTC policies are generally guaranteed
renewable, and rates may be adjusted on a class basis with regulatory approval to reflect emerging experience. Our LTC block is closed to new business. The Company makes use of derivative instruments to more closely match asset and liability
duration and immunize the portfolio against changes in interest rates. Reinvestment risk is defined here as the amount of reinvestment in 2013 and 2014 that would impact operating earnings due to reinvesting cash flows in the hypothetical interest
rate stress scenario. For the LTC portfolio, $0.9 billion of the asset base in both 2013 and 2014 will be subject to reinvestment risk on an average asset base of $8.0 billion and $8.7 billion in 2013 and 2014, respectively.   
  We estimate an unfavorable operating earnings impact in our Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits segment from
the hypothetical U.S. interest rate stress scenario noted above of $5 million and $20 million in 2013 and 2014, respectively.       Corporate
Benefit Funding       This segment contains both short and long duration products consisting of capital market
products, pension closeouts, structured settlements, and other benefit funding products. The majority of short duration products are managed on a floating rate basis, which mitigates the impact of the low interest rate environment in the U.S. The
long duration products have very predictable cash flows and we have matched these cash flows through our ALM practices. We also use interest rate swaps to help protect income in this segment against a low interest rate environment in the U.S. Based
on the cash flow estimates, only a small component is subject to reinvestment risk. Reinvestment risk is defined here as the amount of reinvestment in 2013 and 2014 that would impact operating earnings due to reinvesting cash flows in the
hypothetical interest rate stress scenario. For the long duration business, $0 and $0.4 billion of the asset base in 2013 and 2014, respectively, will be subject to reinvestment risk on an average asset base of $46.3 billion and $46.2 billion in
2013 and 2014, respectively.      We estimate an unfavorable operating earnings impact in our Corporate Benefit
Funding segment from the hypothetical U.S. interest rate stress scenario noted above of $0 and $10 million in 2013 and 2014, respectively.       Asia       Our Asia segment has a portion of its investments in
U.S. dollar denominated assets. The following represents the impact on our Asia segment s operating earnings under the hypothetical U.S. interest rate stress scenario.   
         79   

Table of Contents  

   Life   Other   Our Japan business offers traditional life
insurance and accident   health products. To the extent the Japan life insurance portfolio is U.S. interest rate sensitive and we are unable to lower crediting rates to the customer, operating earnings will decline. We manage interest rate
risk on our life products through a combination of product design features and ALM strategies.      Annuities
  We sell annuities in Asia which are predominantly single premium products with crediting rates set at the time of issue. This allows us to tightly manage product ALM, cash flows and net spreads, thus maintaining profitability.   
  We estimate an unfavorable operating earnings impact in our Asia segment from the hypothetical U.S. interest rate stress
scenario noted above of $10 million and $20 million in 2013 and 2014, respectively.       Corporate   Other
      Corporate   Other contains the surplus portfolios for the enterprise, as well as the portfolios
used to fund the capital needs of the Company. In addition, there are various reinsurance products. The surplus portfolios are subject to reinvestment risk; however lower net investment income is significantly offset by lower interest expense on
both fixed and variable rate debt. Under a lower interest rate environment, fixed rate debt is assumed to be either paid off when it matures or refinanced at a lower interest rate resulting in lower overall interest expense. Variable rate debt is
indexed to the three-month LIBOR, which results in lower interest expense incurred.      We estimate an
unfavorable operating earnings impact in Corporate   Other from the hypothetical U.S. interest rate stress scenario noted above of $15 million and $40 million in 2013 and 2014, respectively.   
    Competitive Pressures        The life insurance industry remains highly competitive. The product development and product life-cycles have shortened in many product segments, leading to more intense competition with respect to product
features. Larger companies have the ability to invest in brand equity, product development, technology and risk management, which are among the fundamentals for sustained profitable growth in the life insurance industry. In addition, several of the
industry s products can be quite homogeneous and subject to intense price competition. Sufficient scale, financial strength and financial flexibility are becoming prerequisites for sustainable growth in the life insurance industry. Larger
market participants tend to have the capacity to invest in additional distribution capability and the information technology needed to offer the superior customer service demanded by an increasingly sophisticated industry client base. We believe
that the continued volatility of the financial markets, its impact on the capital position of many competitors, and subsequent actions by regulators and rating agencies have altered the competitive environment. In particular, we believe that these
factors have highlighted financial strength as the most significant differentiator from the perspective of some customers and certain distributors. We believe the Company is well positioned to compete in this environment. See  Business  
Competition.         Regulatory Developments     
  The U.S. life insurance industry is regulated primarily at the state level, with some products and services also subject
to Federal regulation. As life insurers introduce new and often more complex products, regulators refine capital requirements and introduce new reserving standards for the life insurance industry. Regulations recently adopted or currently under
review can potentially impact the statutory reserve and capital requirements of the industry. In addition, regulators have undertaken market and sales practices reviews of several markets or products, including equity-indexed annuities, variable
annuities and group products, as well as reviews of the utilization of affiliated captive reinsurers or off-shore entities to reinsure insurance risks. The regulation of the global financial services industry has received renewed scrutiny as a
result of the disruptions in the financial markets. Significant regulatory reforms have been recently adopted and additional reforms proposed, and these or   
         80   

Table of Contents  

other reforms could be implemented. See  Business   U.S. Regulation,   Business   International Regulation,   Risk Factors   Regulatory and Legal Risks
  Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth,   Risk Factors   Risks Related to Our
Business   Our Statutory Life Insurance Reserve Financings May Be Subject to Cost Increases and New Financings May Be Subject to Limited Market Capacity,  and  Risk Factors   Regulatory and Legal Risks   Changes in U.S.
Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations, and State Insurance Regulations Regarding Suitability of Annuity Product Sales, May Affect Our Operations and Our Profitability.    
  The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ( Dodd-Frank ), which was signed by President
Obama in July 2010, effected the most far-reaching overhaul of financial regulation in the U.S. in decades. The full impact of Dodd-Frank on us will depend on the numerous rulemaking initiatives required or permitted by Dodd-Frank which are in
various stages of implementation, many of which are not likely to be completed for some time. See  Business   U.S. Regulation.         Mortgage and Foreclosure-Related Exposures        Since
2008, MetLife, through its affiliate, MetLife Bank, has been engaged in the origination, sale and servicing of forward and reverse residential mortgage loans. In January 2012, MetLife, Inc. announced that it was exiting the business of originating
forward residential mortgage loans. In April 2012, MetLife, Inc. announced it was exiting the businesses of originating and servicing reverse residential mortgage loans and that MetLife Bank and MetLife, Inc. entered into a definitive agreement to
sell MetLife Bank s reverse mortgage servicing portfolio. In June 2012, the Company sold the majority of MetLife Bank s reverse mortgage servicing rights and related assets and liabilities, with the remainder sold in September 2012
pursuant to the same sales agreement. On November 2, 2012, MetLife Bank and MetLife, Inc. entered into a definitive agreement to sell MetLife Bank s forward mortgage servicing portfolio to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. ( JPMorgan
Chase ). The rights and obligations of the forward mortgage servicing portfolio were assumed by JPMorgan Chase on December 31, 2012. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the MetLife
Bank Divestiture.      In conjunction with the sales of residential mortgage loans and servicing portfolios,
MetLife Bank has made representations and warranties that the loans sold met certain requirements (relating, for example, to the underwriting and origination of the loans), and that the loans were serviced in accordance with investor guidelines.
Notwithstanding its exit from the origination and servicing businesses, MetLife Bank remains obligated to repurchase loans or compensate for losses upon demand due to alleged defects by MetLife Bank or its predecessor servicers in past servicing of
the loans and material representations made in connection with MetLife Bank s sale of the loans. At the time the servicing portfolios were sold MetLife Bank was servicing $75.2 billion in mortgage loans, of which $58.9 billion were originated
by MetLife Bank, and which loans were subject to both origination and servicing representations and warranties. Estimation of repurchase liability arising from breaches of origination representations and warranties requires considerable management
judgment. MetLife Bank considers the level of outstanding unresolved repurchase demands and challenges to mortgage insurance, probable future demands in light of historical experience and changes in general economic conditions such as unemployment
and the housing market, and the likelihood of recovery from indemnifications made to MetLife Bank relating to loans that MetLife Bank acquired rather than originated. Reserves for representation and warranty repurchases and indemnifications were $95
million and $69 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Reserves for estimated future losses due to alleged servicing deficiencies on loans originated and sold, as well as servicing acquired, are estimated based on unresolved
claims as well as projected losses under investor servicing contracts where MetLife Bank s past actions or inactions are likely to result in missing certain stipulated investor timelines. Reserves for servicing defects were $54 million and $26
million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Management is satisfied that adequate provision has been made in the Company s consolidated financial statements for those representation and warrant obligations that are currently
probable and reasonably estimable.   
         81   

Table of Contents  

   State and federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities have initiated
various inquiries, investigations or examinations of alleged irregularities in the foreclosure practices of the residential mortgage servicing industry. Mortgage servicing practices have also been the subject of Congressional attention. Authorities
have publicly stated that the scope of the investigations extends beyond foreclosure documentation practices to include mortgage loan modification and loss mitigation practices.   
  On April 13, 2011, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ) entered into consent orders with
several banks, including MetLife Bank. The consent orders require an independent review of foreclosure practices and set forth new residential mortgage servicing standards, including a requirement for a designated point of contact for a borrower
during the loss mitigation process. In the first quarter of 2013, MetLife Bank entered into an agreement in principle with the OCC to settle obligations related to the independent foreclosure review required by its consent order. Under the agreement
in principle, the foreclosure review will end and MetLife Bank will pay approximately $46 million. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board entered into consent orders with the affiliated bank holding companies of these banks, including MetLife, Inc.,
to enhance the supervision of the mortgage servicing activities of their banking subsidiaries. On August 6, 2012, the Federal Reserve Board issued an Order of Assessment of a Civil Monetary Penalty Issued Upon Consent against MetLife, Inc. that
will impose a penalty of up to $3.2 million for the alleged deficiencies in oversight of MetLife Bank s servicing of residential mortgage loans and processing foreclosures that were the subject of the 2011 consent order.   
  MetLife Bank also had a meeting with the Department of Justice regarding mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices. It
is possible that various state or federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities may seek monetary penalties from MetLife Bank relating to foreclosure practices.   
  MetLife Bank has also responded to a subpoena issued by the Department of Financial Services regarding hazard insurance
and flood insurance that MetLife Bank obtains to protect the lienholder s interest when the borrower s insurance has lapsed. In April and May 2012, MetLife Bank received two subpoenas issued by the Office of Inspector General for the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development regarding Federal Housing Administration ( FHA ) insured loans. In June and September 2012, MetLife Bank received two Civil Investigative Demands that the U.S. Department of Justice issued as
part of a False Claims Act investigation of allegations that MetLife Bank had improperly originated and/or underwritten loans insured by the FHA.      The consent decrees, as well as the inquiries or investigations referred to above, could adversely affect MetLife s reputation or result in significant fines, penalties, equitable remedies or other
enforcement actions, and result in significant legal costs in responding to governmental investigations or other litigation.      The MetLife Bank Divestiture may not relieve MetLife from complying with the consent decrees, or protect it from the inquiries and investigations relating to residential mortgage servicing and foreclosure
activities, or any fines, penalties, equitable remedies or enforcement actions that may result, the costs of responding to any such governmental investigations, or other litigation.   
     Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates    
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to adopt accounting policies and make
estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements. For a discussion of our significant accounting policies, see Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The most critical estimates
include those used in determining:       

(i)  
    liabilities for future policyholder benefits and the accounting for reinsurance;      

(ii)  
    capitalization and amortization of DAC and the establishment and amortization of VOBA;      

(iii)  
    estimated fair values of investments in the absence of quoted market values;      

(iv)  
    investment impairments;      
         82   

Table of Contents  

(v)  
    estimated fair values of freestanding derivatives and the recognition and estimated fair value of embedded derivatives requiring bifurcation;

(vi)  
    measurement of goodwill and related impairment;          

(vii)  
    measurement of employee benefit plan liabilities;         

(viii)  
    measurement of income taxes and the valuation of deferred tax assets; and      

(ix)  
    liabilities for litigation and regulatory matters.      
  In addition, the application of acquisition accounting requires the use of estimation techniques in determining the
estimated fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed   the most significant of which relate to aforementioned critical accounting estimates. In applying our accounting policies, we make subjective and complex judgments that
frequently require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Many of these policies, estimates and related judgments are common in the insurance and financial services industries; others are specific to our business and operations.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.        Liability for Future Policy Benefits     
  Generally, future policy benefits are payable over an extended period of time and related liabilities are calculated as
the present value of future expected benefits to be paid, reduced by the present value of future expected premiums. Such liabilities are established based on methods and underlying assumptions in accordance with GAAP and applicable actuarial
standards. Principal assumptions used in the establishment of liabilities for future policy benefits are mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal, retirement, disability incidence, disability terminations, investment returns, inflation, expenses
and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective product type and geographical area. These assumptions are established at the time the policy is issued and are intended to estimate the experience for the period the policy benefits are
payable. Utilizing these assumptions, liabilities are established on a block of business basis. If experience is less favorable than assumed, additional liabilities may be established, resulting in a charge to policyholder benefits and claims.
     Future policy benefit liabilities for disabled lives are estimated using the present value of benefits method
and experience assumptions as to claim terminations, expenses and interest.      Liabilities for unpaid claims are
estimated based upon our historical experience and other actuarial assumptions that consider the effects of current developments, anticipated trends and risk management programs, reduced for anticipated salvage and subrogation.   
  Future policy benefit liabilities for minimum death and income benefit guarantees relating to certain annuity contracts
are based on estimates of the expected value of benefits in excess of the projected account balance, recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. Liabilities for universal and variable life
secondary guarantees and paid-up guarantees are determined by estimating the expected value of death benefits payable when the account balance is projected to be zero and recognizing those benefits ratably over the accumulation period based on total
expected assessments. The assumptions used in estimating the secondary and paid-up guarantee liabilities are consistent with those used for amortizing DAC, and are thus subject to the same variability and risk. The assumptions of investment
performance and volatility for variable products are consistent with historical experience of the appropriate underlying equity index, such as the Standard   Poor s Rating Services 500 Index.   
  We regularly review our estimates of liabilities for future policy benefits and compare them with our actual experience.
Differences between actual experience and the assumptions used in pricing these policies and guarantees, as well as in the establishment of the related liabilities, result in variances in profit and could result in losses.   
         83   

Table of Contents  

   See Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information on our liability for future policy benefits.        Reinsurance     
  Accounting for reinsurance requires extensive use of assumptions and estimates, particularly related to the future
performance of the underlying business and the potential impact of counterparty credit risks. We periodically review actual and anticipated experience compared to the aforementioned assumptions used to establish assets and liabilities relating to
ceded and assumed reinsurance and evaluate the financial strength of counterparties to our reinsurance agreements using criteria similar to that evaluated in the security impairment process discussed subsequently. Additionally, for each of our
reinsurance agreements, we determine whether the agreement provides indemnification against loss or liability relating to insurance risk, in accordance with applicable accounting standards. We review all contractual features, particularly those that
may limit the amount of insurance risk to which the reinsurer is subject or features that delay the timely reimbursement of claims. If we determine that a reinsurance agreement does not expose the reinsurer to a reasonable possibility of a
significant loss from insurance risk, we record the agreement using the deposit method of accounting.      See
Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our reinsurance programs.   
    Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired     
  We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. Costs that relate directly to
the successful acquisition or renewal of insurance contracts are deferred as DAC. In addition to commissions, certain direct-response advertising expenses and other direct costs, deferrable costs include the portion of an employee s total
compensation and benefits related to time spent selling, underwriting or processing the issuance of new and renewal insurance business only with respect to actual policies acquired or renewed. We utilize various techniques to estimate the portion of
an employee s time spent on qualifying acquisition activities that result in actual sales, including surveys, interviews, representative time studies and other methods. These estimates include assumptions that are reviewed and updated on a
periodic basis or more frequently to reflect significant changes in processes or distribution methods.      VOBA
represents the excess of book value over the estimated fair value of acquired insurance, annuity, and investment-type contracts in-force at the acquisition date. For certain acquired blocks of business, the estimated fair value of the in-force
contract obligations exceeded the book value of assumed in-force insurance policy liabilities, resulting in negative VOBA, which is presented separately from VOBA as an additional insurance liability included in other policy-related balances. The
estimated fair value of the acquired liabilities is based on projections, by each block of business, of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment
returns, nonperformance risk adjustment and other factors. Actual experience on the purchased business may vary from these projections. The recovery of DAC and VOBA is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business.   
  Separate account rates of return on variable universal life contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts affect
in-force account balances on such contracts each reporting period, which can result in significant fluctuations in amortization of DAC and VOBA. Our practice to determine the impact of gross profits resulting from returns on separate accounts
assumes that long-term appreciation in equity markets is not changed by short-term market fluctuations, but is only changed when sustained interim deviations are expected. We monitor these events and only change the assumption when our long-term
expectation changes. The effect of an increase (decrease) by 100 basis points in the assumed future rate of return is reasonably likely to result in a decrease (increase) in the DAC and VOBA amortization of approximately $180 million, with an
offset to our unearned revenue liability of approximately $30 million for this factor. We use a mean reversion approach to separate account returns where the mean reversion period is five years with a long-term separate account return after the
five-year reversion period is over. The current long-term rate of return assumption for the variable universal life contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts is 7.25% for the U.S.   
         84   

Table of Contents  

   We also periodically review other long-term assumptions underlying the
projections of estimated gross margins and profits. These assumptions primarily relate to investment returns, policyholder dividend scales, interest crediting rates, mortality, persistency, and expenses to administer business. Assumptions used in
the calculation of estimated gross margins and profits which may have significantly changed are updated annually. If the update of assumptions causes expected future gross margins and profits to increase, DAC and VOBA amortization will decrease,
resulting in a current period increase to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the assumption update causes expected future gross margins and profits to decrease.   
  Our most significant assumption updates resulting in a change to expected future gross margins and profits and the
amortization of DAC and VOBA are due to revisions to expected future investment returns, expenses, in-force or persistency assumptions and policyholder dividends on participating traditional life contracts, variable and universal life contracts and
annuity contracts. We expect these assumptions to be the ones most reasonably likely to cause significant changes in the future. Changes in these assumptions can be offsetting and we are unable to predict their movement or offsetting impact over
time.      At December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, DAC and VOBA for the Company was $24.8 billion,
$24.6 billion and $24.5 billion, respectively. Amortization of DAC and VOBA associated with the variable and universal life and the annuity contracts was significantly impacted by movements in equity markets. The following illustrates the
effect on DAC and VOBA of changing each of the respective assumptions, as well as updating estimated gross margins or profits with actual gross margins or profits during the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. Increases (decreases) in
DAC and VOBA balances, as presented below, resulted in a corresponding decrease (increase) in amortization.       
    The following represents significant items contributing to the changes to DAC and VOBA
amortization in 2012:       

The increase in actual, as well as changes in projected, investment returns resulted in an increase in actual and a reduction in expected future
gross profits on variable universal life contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts resulting in an increase of $161 million in DAC and VOBA amortization.      

Better than expected persistency and changes in assumptions regarding persistency, especially in the U.S. deferred variable annuity contracts,
resulted in an increase in actual and expected future gross profits resulting in a decrease of $368 million in DAC and VOBA amortization.         The following represents significant items contributing to the changes to DAC and VOBA amortization in 2011:       

The decrease in equity markets during the year lowered separate account balances, which led to a reduction in actual and expected future gross
profits on variable universal life contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts resulting in an increase of $125 million in DAC and VOBA amortization.      
         85   

Table of Contents  

Changes in net investment gains (losses) resulted in the following changes in DAC and VOBA amortization:      

Actual gross profits decreased as a result of an increase in liabilities associated with guarantee obligations on variable annuities, resulting in a
decrease of DAC and VOBA amortization of $478 million, excluding the impact from our nonperformance risk and risk margins, which are described below. This decrease in actual gross profits was more than offset by freestanding derivative gains
associated with the hedging of such guarantee obligations, which resulted in an increase in DAC and VOBA amortization of $759 million.          

The widening of the Company s nonperformance risk adjustment decreased the valuation of guarantee liabilities, increased actual gross profits
and increased DAC and VOBA amortization by $234 million. This was partially offset by higher risk margins, which increased the guarantee liability valuations, decreased actual gross profits and decreased DAC and VOBA amortization by
$64 million.          

The remainder of the impact of net investment gains (losses), which increased DAC and VOBA amortization by $79 million, was primarily
attributable to current period investment activities.         The following represents significant
items contributing to the changes to DAC and VOBA amortization in 2010:       

Changes in net investment gains (losses) resulted in the following changes in DAC and VOBA amortization:      

Actual gross profits increased as a result of a decrease in liabilities associated with guarantee obligations on variable annuities, resulting in an
increase of DAC and VOBA amortization of $188 million, excluding the impact from our nonperformance risk and risk margins, which are described below. This increase in actual gross profits was partially offset by freestanding derivative losses
associated with the hedging of such guarantee obligations, which resulted in a decrease in DAC and VOBA amortization of $84 million.          

The narrowing of our nonperformance risk adjustment increased the valuation of guarantee liabilities, decreased actual gross profits and decreased
DAC and VOBA amortization by $92 million. In addition, higher risk margins, which increased the guarantee liability valuations, decreased actual gross profits and decreased DAC and VOBA amortization by $17 million.

The remainder of the impact of net investment gains (losses), which increased DAC and VOBA amortization by $114 million, was primarily
attributable to current period investment activities.          

Included in policyholder dividends and other was an increase in DAC and VOBA amortization of $72 million as a result of favorable gross margin
variances. The remainder of the increase was due to various immaterial items.         Our DAC and
VOBA balance is also impacted by unrealized investment gains (losses) and the amount of amortization which would have been recognized if such gains and losses had been realized. The increase in unrealized investment gains decreased the DAC and VOBA
balance by $713 million, $788 million and $1.2 billion in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. See Notes 5 and 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the DAC and VOBA offset to unrealized investment
losses.        Estimated Fair Value of Investments     
  In determining the estimated fair value of our investments, various methodologies, assumptions and inputs are utilized.
     When quoted prices in active markets are not available, the determination of estimated fair value is based on
market standard valuation methodologies, giving priority to observable inputs. The market standard valuation methodologies utilized include: discounted cash flow methodologies, matrix pricing or other similar techniques.
  
         86   

Table of Contents  

The inputs to these market standard valuation methodologies include, but are not limited to: interest rates, credit standing of the issuer or counterparty, industry sector of the issuer, coupon
rate, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, maturity, estimated duration and management s assumptions regarding liquidity and estimated future cash flows. Accordingly, the estimated fair values are based on available market information
and management s judgments about financial instruments.      The significant inputs to the market standard
valuation methodologies for certain types of securities with reasonable levels of price transparency are inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. Such observable inputs
include benchmarking prices for similar assets in active, liquid markets, quoted prices in markets that are not active and observable yields and spreads in the market.   
  When observable inputs are not available, the market standard valuation methodologies for determining the estimated fair
value of certain types of securities that trade infrequently, and therefore have little or no price transparency, rely on inputs that are significant to the estimated fair value that are not observable in the market or cannot be derived principally
from or corroborated by observable market data. These unobservable inputs can be based in large part on management judgment or estimation, and cannot be supported by reference to market activity. Even though unobservable, these inputs are based on
assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances and consistent with what other market participants would use when pricing such securities.      The estimated fair value of residential mortgage loans held-for-sale and securitized reverse residential mortgage loans is determined based on observable pricing for securities backed by similar types of
loans, adjusted to convert the securities prices to loan prices, or from independent broker quotations, which is intended to approximate the amounts that would be received from third parties. Certain other mortgage loans that were previously
designated as held-for-investment, but now are designated as held-for-sale, are recorded at the lower of amortized cost or estimated fair value, or for collateral dependent loans, estimated fair value of the collateral less expected disposition
costs determined on an individual loan basis. For these loans, estimated fair value is determined using independent broker quotations, or values provided by independent valuation specialists, or when the loan is in foreclosure or otherwise
collateral dependent, the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral is estimated using internal models.   
  Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a
reduction in asset liquidity. Our ability to sell securities, or the price ultimately realized for these securities, depends upon the demand and liquidity in the market and increases the use of judgment in determining the estimated fair value of
certain securities.      See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information regarding the estimated fair value of our investments.        Investment Impairments     
  One of the significant estimates related to available-for-sale ( AFS ) securities is our impairment evaluation.
The assessment of whether an other-than-temporary impairment ( OTTI ) occurred is based on our case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in estimated fair value on a security-by-security basis. Our review of each
fixed maturity and equity security for OTTI includes an analysis of gross unrealized losses by three categories of severity and/or age of gross unrealized loss. An extended and severe unrealized loss position on a fixed maturity security may not
have any impact on the ability of the issuer to service all scheduled interest and principal payments. Accordingly, such an unrealized loss position may not impact our evaluation of recoverability of all contractual cash flows or the ability to
recover an amount at least equal to its amortized cost based on the present value of the expected future cash flows to be collected. In contrast, for certain equity securities, greater weight and consideration are given to a decline in estimated
fair value and the likelihood such estimated fair value decline will recover.   
         87   

Table of Contents  

   Additionally, we consider a wide range of factors about the security issuer
and use our best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent in our evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the
operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Factors we consider in the OTTI evaluation process are described in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments on the remaining invested asset classes is highly
subjective and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available.
     See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information relating to our
determination of the amount of allowances and impairments.        Derivatives     
  The determination of estimated fair value of freestanding derivatives, when quoted market values are not available, is
based on market standard valuation methodologies and inputs that management believes are consistent with what other market participants would use when pricing the instruments. Derivative valuations can be affected by changes in interest rates,
foreign currency exchange rates, financial indices, credit spreads, default risk, nonperformance risk, volatility, liquidity and changes in estimates and assumptions used in the pricing models. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional details on significant inputs into the over-the-counter ( OTC ) derivative pricing models and credit risk adjustment.   
  We issue certain variable annuity products with guaranteed minimum benefits, which are measured at estimated fair value
separately from the host variable annuity product, with changes in estimated fair value reported in net derivative gains (losses). The estimated fair values of these embedded derivatives are determined based on the present value of projected future
benefits minus the present value of projected future fees. The projections of future benefits and future fees require capital market and actuarial assumptions, including expectations concerning policyholder behavior. A risk neutral valuation
methodology is used under which the cash flows from the guarantees are projected under multiple capital market scenarios using observable risk free rates. The valuation of these embedded derivatives also includes an adjustment for our nonperformance
risk and risk margins for non-capital market inputs. The nonperformance risk adjustment, which is captured as a spread over the risk free rate in determining the discount rate to discount the cash flows of the liability, is determined by taking into
consideration publicly available information relating to spreads in the secondary market for MetLife, Inc. s debt, including related credit default swaps. These observable spreads are then adjusted, as necessary, to reflect the priority of
these liabilities and the claims paying ability of the issuing insurance subsidiaries compared to MetLife, Inc. Risk margins are established to capture the non-capital market risks of the instrument which represent the additional compensation a
market participant would require to assume the risks related to the uncertainties in certain actuarial assumptions. The establishment of risk margins requires the use of significant management judgment, including assumptions of the amount and cost
of capital needed to cover the guarantees.      The table below illustrates the impact that a range of reasonably
likely variances in credit spreads would have on our consolidated balance sheet, excluding the effect of income tax, related to the embedded derivative valuation on certain variable annuity products measured at estimated fair value. However, these
estimated effects do not take into account potential changes in other variables, such as equity price levels and market volatility, that can also contribute significantly to changes in carrying values. Therefore, the table does not necessarily
reflect the ultimate impact on the consolidated financial statements under the credit spread variance scenarios presented below.      In determining the ranges, we have considered current market conditions, as well as the market level of spreads that can reasonably be anticipated over the near term. The ranges do not reflect extreme
market conditions experienced during the recent financial crisis as we do not consider those to be reasonably likely events in the near future.   
         88   

Table of Contents  

The accounting for derivatives is complex and interpretations of accounting standards
continue to evolve in practice. If it is determined that hedge accounting designations were not appropriately applied, reported net income could be materially affected. Assessments of hedge effectiveness and measurements of ineffectiveness of
hedging relationships are also subject to interpretations and estimations and different interpretations or estimates may have a material effect on the amount reported in net income.   
  Variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits may be more costly than expected in volatile or declining equity
markets. Market conditions including, but not limited to, changes in interest rates, equity indices, market volatility and foreign currency exchange rates, changes in our nonperformance risk, variations in actuarial assumptions regarding
policyholder behavior, mortality and risk margins related to non-capital market inputs, may result in significant fluctuations in the estimated fair value of the guarantees that could materially affect net income. If interpretations change, there is
a risk that features previously not bifurcated may require bifurcation and reporting at estimated fair value in the consolidated financial statements and respective changes in estimated fair value could materially affect net income.   
  Additionally, we ceded the risk associated with certain of the variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits
described in the preceding paragraphs. The value of the embedded derivatives on the ceded risk is determined using a methodology consistent with that described previously for the guarantees directly written by us with the exception of the input for
nonperformance risk that reflects the credit of the reinsurer. Because certain of the direct guarantees do not meet the definition of an embedded derivative and, thus are not accounted for at fair value, significant fluctuations in net income may
occur since the change in fair value of the embedded derivative on the ceded risk is being recorded in net income without a corresponding and offsetting change in fair value of the direct guarantee.   
  See Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our derivatives and
hedging programs.        Goodwill     
  Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances, such as adverse
changes in the business climate, indicate that there may be justification for conducting an interim test.      For
purposes of goodwill impairment testing, if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill is compared to the carrying value of that goodwill to measure the amount of
impairment loss, if any. In such instances, the implied fair value of the goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill that would be determined in a business acquisition. The key inputs, judgments and assumptions necessary in
determining estimated fair value of the reporting units include projected operating earnings, current book value, the level of economic capital required to support the mix of business, long-term growth rates, comparative market multiples, the
account value of in-force business, projections of new and renewal business, as well as margins on such business, the level of interest rates, credit spreads, equity market levels, and the discount rate that we believe is appropriate for the
respective reporting unit. The estimated fair values of the Retail Annuities and Retail Life   Other reporting units are particularly sensitive to interest rate and equity market levels.   
         89   

Table of Contents  

   We performed the annual goodwill impairment test on our Retail Annuities
reporting unit using both the market multiple and discounted cash flow valuation approaches. Results for both approaches indicated that the fair value of the Retail Annuities reporting unit was below its carrying value. As a result, an actuarial
appraisal, which estimates the net worth of the reporting unit, the value of existing business and the value of new business, was performed. This appraisal resulted in a fair value of the Retail Annuities reporting unit that was less than the
carrying value, indicating a potential for goodwill impairment. The actuarial appraisal reflected the expected market impact to a buyer of changes in the regulatory environment, continued low interest rates for an extended period of time, and other
market and economic factors. Specifically, in July 2012, the Department of Financial Services initiated an inquiry into the use of captive or off-shore reinsurers, strategies many market participants have used for capital efficiency on variable
annuity products; the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ) has also been studying the use of captives. Additionally, in the third quarter of 2012, the Federal Reserve announced that it anticipated that low interest
rates were likely to be warranted at least through mid-2015, extending the time horizon from previous announcements and Moody s changed its outlook for the U.S. life insurance industry to negative from stable, and stated that it expects
interest rates to remain in the low single digits for the next few years. As a result, we performed Step 2 of the goodwill impairment process, which compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill with its carrying value. This
analysis indicated that the recorded goodwill associated with this reporting unit was not recoverable. Therefore, we recorded a non-cash charge of $1.9 billion ($1.6 billion, net of income tax) for the impairment of the entire goodwill balance that
is reported in goodwill impairment in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2012.      We performed the annual goodwill impairment test on our Retail Life reporting unit which passed both the market multiple valuation and the discounted cash flow valuation approaches. The fair value of the
reporting unit, calculated based on application of the discounted cash flow valuation approach, exceeded the carrying value by approximately 3%. If we had assumed that the discount rate was 100 basis points higher than the discount rate used, the
fair value of the Retail Life reporting unit would have been less than the carrying value by approximately 1%.   
  In addition, we performed the annual goodwill impairment tests on our other reporting units using a market multiple
and/or the discounted cash flow approach and concluded that the fair values of all such reporting units were in excess of their carrying values and, therefore, goodwill was not impaired.   
  As anticipated, in the third quarter of 2012, we continued to realign certain products and businesses among our existing
segments. As a result, beginning in the third quarter of 2012, the Retail Life reporting unit was integrated with other products and businesses, including the Retail property   casualty business, which is less sensitive to changes in
interest rates. The amount of goodwill allocated to the Retail Life   Other reporting unit was approximately $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2012. As a result of the realignment during the third quarter, we performed an analysis to
identify all reporting units under the revised structure. Based on a qualitative assessment performed, we concluded that there were no indicators of a scenario in which it was more likely than not that any reporting units had a carrying value that
exceeded fair value, and thus, no further impairment analysis was performed. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate potential triggering events that may affect the estimated fair value of our reporting units to assess whether any goodwill impairment
exists.      We apply significant judgment when determining the estimated fair value of our reporting units and
when assessing the relationship of market capitalization to the aggregate estimated fair value of our reporting units. The valuation methodologies utilized are subject to key judgments and assumptions that are sensitive to change. Estimates of fair
value are inherently uncertain and represent only management s reasonable expectation regarding future developments. These estimates and the judgments and assumptions upon which the estimates are based will, in all likelihood, differ in some
respects from actual future results. Declines in the estimated fair value of our reporting units could result in goodwill impairments in future periods which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial position.
     See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our goodwill.
  
         90   

Table of Contents  

     Employee Benefit Plans     
  Certain subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. sponsor and/or administer various plans that provide defined benefit pension and
other postretirement benefits covering eligible employees and sales representatives. The calculation of the obligations and expenses associated with these plans requires an extensive use of assumptions such as the discount rate, expected rate of
return on plan assets, rate of future compensation increases and healthcare cost trend rates, as well as assumptions regarding participant demographics such as rate and age of retirements, withdrawal rates and mortality. In consultation with
external actuarial firms, we determine these assumptions based upon a variety of factors such as historical experience of the plan and its assets, currently available market and industry data, and expected benefit payout streams.   
  We determine the expected rate of return on plan assets based upon an approach that considers inflation, real return,
term premium, credit spreads, equity risk premium and capital appreciation, as well as expenses, expected asset manager performance, asset weights and the effect of rebalancing. Given the amount of plan assets as of December 31, 2011, the
beginning of the measurement year, if we had assumed an expected rate of return for both our pension and other postretirement benefit plans that was 100 basis points higher or 100 basis points lower than the rates we assumed, the change in our net
periodic benefit costs would have been a decrease of $84 million and an increase of $84 million, respectively, in 2012. This considers only changes in our assumed long-term rate of return given the level and mix of invested assets at the beginning
of the year, without consideration of possible changes in any of the other assumptions described above that could ultimately accompany any changes in our assumed long-term rate of return.   
  We determine the discount rates used to value the pension and postretirement obligations, based upon rates commensurate
with current yields on high quality corporate bonds. Given our pension and postretirement obligations as of December 31, 2011, the beginning of the measurement year, if we had assumed a discount rate for both our pension and postretirement
benefit plans that was 100 basis points higher or 100 basis points lower than the rates we assumed, the change in our net periodic benefit costs would have been a decrease of $133 million and an increase of $153 million, respectively, in 2012. This
considers only changes in our assumed discount rates without consideration of possible changes in any of the other assumptions described above that could ultimately accompany any changes in our assumed discount rate. The assumptions used may differ
materially from actual results due to, among other factors, changing market and economic conditions and changes in participant demographics. These differences may have a significant effect on the Company s consolidated financial statements and
liquidity.      See Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of
assumptions used in measuring liabilities relating to our employee benefit plans.        Income Taxes     
  We provide for federal, state and foreign income taxes currently payable, as well as those deferred due to temporary
differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Our accounting for income taxes represents our best estimate of various events and transactions. These tax laws are complex and are subject to differing
interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. In establishing a provision for income tax expense, we must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws. We must also
make estimates about when in the future certain items will affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions, both domestic and foreign.   
         91   

Table of Contents  

   The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of
sufficient taxable income within the carryback or carryforward periods under the tax law in the applicable tax jurisdiction. Valuation allowances are established when management determines, based on available information, that it is more likely than
not that deferred income tax assets will not be realized. Factors in management s determination include the performance of the business and its ability to generate capital gains. Significant judgment is required in determining whether valuation
allowances should be established, as well as the amount of such allowances. When making such determination, consideration is given to, among other things, the following:   

(i)  
    future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards;      

(ii)  
    future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences;      

(iii)  
    taxable income in prior carryback years; and          

(iv)  
    tax planning strategies.         Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be subject to review and adjudication by the court systems of the various tax jurisdictions or may be settled with the taxing authority upon audit. We
determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the benefit is recorded in the financial statements. We may be required to change our
provision for income taxes when estimates used in determining valuation allowances on deferred tax assets significantly change, or when receipt of new information indicates the need for adjustment in valuation allowances. Additionally, future
events, such as changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such laws or regulations, could have an impact on the provision for income tax and the effective tax rate. Any such changes could significantly affect the amounts reported
in the consolidated financial statements in the year these changes occur.      See Note 19 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our income taxes.        Litigation Contingencies
       We are a party to a number of legal actions and are involved in a number of regulatory
investigations. Given the inherent unpredictability of these matters, it is difficult to estimate the impact on our financial position. Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be
reasonably estimated. Liabilities related to certain lawsuits, including our asbestos-related liability, are especially difficult to estimate due to the limitation of available data and uncertainty regarding numerous variables that can affect
liability estimates. The data and variables that impact the assumptions used to estimate our asbestos-related liability include the number of future claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity of disease in pending and future
claims, the impact of the number of new claims filed in a particular jurisdiction and variations in the law in the jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible impact of tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to allow plaintiffs to
pursue claims against us when exposure to asbestos took place after the dangers of asbestos exposure were well known, and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts. On a quarterly and annual basis, we review relevant
information with respect to liabilities for litigation, regulatory investigations and litigation-related contingencies to be reflected in our consolidated financial statements. It is possible that an adverse outcome in certain of our litigation and
regulatory investigations, including asbestos-related cases, or the use of different assumptions in the determination of amounts recorded could have a material effect upon our consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual
periods.      See Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information
regarding our assessment of litigation contingencies.         Economic Capital    
  Economic capital is an internally developed risk capital model, the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the
business and to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. The economic capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the risks inherent in our business.   
         92   

Table of Contents  

   Our economic capital model aligns segment allocated equity with emerging
standards and consistent risk principles. Segment net investment income is credited or charged based on the level of allocated equity; however, changes in allocated equity do not impact our consolidated net investment income, operating earnings or
income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax.         Acquisitions and Dispositions
      See Notes 3 and 23 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         93   

Table of Contents  

      Results of Operations    
    Consolidated Results        We have experienced growth and an increase in sales in several of our businesses, both domestic and foreign. In the U.S., the economy has continued to slowly improve and, as a result, our group term life
and disability businesses exhibited growth from new sales, and our dental business continued to benefit from strong enrollments and renewals along with a large new group contract that began in the second quarter of 2012. Sales of variable annuities
declined in response to actions taken to manage sales volume as we focus on pricing discipline and risk management in this challenging economic environment. Lower interest rates and a more competitive market adversely impacted sales of our pension
closeouts and structured settlements. Although policy sales of our property and casualty products remained sluggish, our average premiums for new policies increased. Sales in nearly all of our businesses abroad have improved despite the challenging
economic environment in certain European countries.       
 
         94   

Table of Contents  

      Year Ended December 31, 2012 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2011
        During the year ended December 31, 2012, income (loss) from continuing operations, before
provision for income tax, decreased $7.7 billion ($5.1 billion, net of income tax) from the prior year primarily driven by an unfavorable change in net derivative gains (losses) and a goodwill impairment charge in the current year.   
  We manage our investment portfolio using disciplined ALM principles, focusing on cash flow and duration to support our
current and future liabilities. Our intent is to match the timing and amount of liability cash outflows with invested assets that have cash inflows of comparable timing and amount, while optimizing risk-adjusted net investment income and
risk-adjusted total return. Our investment portfolio is heavily weighted toward fixed income investments, with over 80% of our portfolio invested in fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans. These securities and loans have varying maturities and
other characteristics which cause them to be generally well suited for matching the cash flow and duration of insurance liabilities. Other invested asset classes including, but not limited to, equity securities, other limited partnership interests
and real estate and real estate joint ventures, provide additional diversification and opportunity for long-term yield enhancement in addition to supporting the cash flow and duration objectives of our investment portfolio. We also use derivatives
as an integral part of our management of the investment portfolio to hedge certain risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit spreads and equity market levels. Additional considerations for our investment
portfolio include current and expected market conditions and expectations for changes within our specific mix of products and business segments. In addition, the general account investment portfolio includes, within fair value option
( FVO ) and trading securities, contractholder-directed investments supporting unit-linked variable annuity type liabilities, which do not qualify as separate account assets. The returns on these contractholder-directed investments, which
can vary significantly period to period, include changes in estimated fair value subsequent to purchase, inure to contractholders and are offset in earnings by a corresponding change in policyholder account balances ( PABs ) through
interest credited to policyholder account balances.      The composition of the investment portfolio of each
business segment is tailored to the specific characteristics of its insurance liabilities, causing certain portfolios to be shorter in duration and others to be longer in duration. Accordingly, certain portfolios are more heavily weighted in longer
duration, higher yielding fixed maturity securities, or certain sub-sectors of fixed maturity securities, than other portfolios.      Investments are purchased to support our insurance liabilities and not to generate net investment gains and losses. However, net investment gains and losses are incurred and can change significantly from
period to period due to changes in external influences, including changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit spreads and equity markets; counterparty specific factors such as financial performance,
credit rating and collateral valuation; and internal factors such as portfolio rebalancing. Changes in these factors from period to period can significantly impact the levels of both impairments and realized gains and losses on investments sold.
     We use freestanding interest rate, equity, credit and currency derivatives to hedge certain invested assets
and insurance liabilities. Certain of these hedges are designated and qualify as accounting hedges, which reduce volatility in earnings. For those hedges not designated as accounting hedges, changes in market factors lead to the recognition of fair
value changes in net derivative gains (losses) generally without an offsetting gain or loss recognized in earnings for the item being hedged.      Certain variable annuity products with minimum benefit guarantees contain embedded derivatives that are measured at estimated fair value separately from the host variable annuity contract, with changes in
estimated fair value recorded in net derivative gains (losses). The Company uses freestanding derivatives to hedge the market risks inherent in these variable annuity guarantees. The valuation of these embedded derivatives includes a nonperformance
risk adjustment, which is unhedged and can be a significant driver of net derivative gains (losses) but does not have an economic impact on the Company.   
         95   

Table of Contents  

   The variable annuity embedded derivatives and associated freestanding
derivative hedges are collectively referred to as  VA program derivatives  in the following table. All other derivatives that are economic hedges of certain invested assets and insurance liabilities are referred to as  non-VA program
derivatives  in the following table. The table below presents the impact on net derivative gains (losses) from non-VA program derivatives and VA program derivatives:   
   
    The unfavorable change in net derivative gains (losses) on non-VA program derivatives was
$3.2 billion ($2.1 billion, net of income tax). This was primarily due to long-term interest rates increasing in the current period but decreasing in the prior period, unfavorably impacting receive-fixed interest rate swaps, long interest rate
floors and receiver swaptions. These freestanding derivatives are primarily hedging long duration liability portfolios. The weakening of the U.S. dollar and Japanese yen relative to other key currencies unfavorably impacted foreign currency forwards
and swaps, which primarily hedge certain foreign denominated bonds. Additionally, the narrowing of credit spreads in the current period compared to widening in the prior period unfavorably impacted credit default swaps hedging certain bonds. Because
certain of these hedging strategies are not designated or do not qualify as accounting hedges, the changes in the estimated fair value of these freestanding derivatives are recognized in net derivative gains (losses) without an offsetting gain or
loss recognized in earnings for the item being hedged.      The unfavorable change in net derivative gains
(losses) on VA program derivatives was $3.5 billion ($2.3 billion, net of income tax). This was due to an unfavorable change of $3.5 billion ($2.3 billion, net of income tax) related to the change in the nonperformance risk adjustment on
embedded derivatives and by an unfavorable change of $39 million ($25 million, net of income tax) on market and other risks in embedded derivatives, net of the impact of freestanding derivatives hedging those risks.   
  The unfavorable change of $39 million is comprised of a $6.1 billion ($4.0 billion, net of income tax) unfavorable change
in freestanding derivatives that hedge market risks in embedded derivatives, which was offset by a $6.1 billion ($4.0 billion, net of income tax) favorable change in market and other risks in our embedded derivatives, which was primarily driven by
changes in market factors. The primary changes in market factors are summarized as follows:       

Long-term interest rates increased in the current period but decreased in the prior period and contributed to an unfavorable change in our
freestanding derivatives and favorable changes in our embedded derivatives.      
         96   

Table of Contents  

Key equity index levels improved in the current period but decreased in the prior period, and equity volatility decreased in the current period but
generally increased in the prior period. These changes contributed to an unfavorable change in our freestanding derivatives and a favorable change in our embedded derivatives.      

Changes in foreign currency exchange rates contributed to an unfavorable change in our freestanding derivatives and favorable changes in our
embedded derivatives.         The decrease in net investment losses primarily reflects a
significant decrease in current period impairments, as compared to the prior period on fixed maturity securities, primarily attributable to prior year impairments on Greece sovereign debt securities, prior year intent-to-sell OTTI on other sovereign
debt due to the repositioning of the acquired ALICO portfolio into longer duration and higher yielding investments, and prior year intent-to-sell impairments related to the Divested Businesses, partially offset by a decrease in gains on sales of
real estate investments.      In addition, the current year includes a $1.9 billion ($1.6 billion, net of income
tax) non-cash charge for goodwill impairment associated with our U.S. retail annuities business. Also, the current year includes a $1.2 billion ($752 million, net of income tax) charge associated with the global review of assumptions related to
DAC, reserves and certain intangibles, of which $526 million ($342 million, net of income tax) was reflected in net derivative gains (losses).      Income (loss) from continuing operations, before provision for income tax, related to the Divested Businesses, excluding net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), decreased $724
million to a loss of $659 million in 2012 compared to income of $65 million in the prior year. Included in this loss was a decrease in total revenues of $797 million and a decrease in total expenses of $73 million. The Divested Businesses include
certain operations of MetLife Bank and the Caribbean region, Panama and Costa Rica (the  Caribbean Business ).      Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2012 was $128 million, or 9% of income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income tax, compared with income tax expense of $2.8
billion, or 30% of income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income tax, for the prior year. The Company s 2012 and 2011 effective tax rates differ from the U.S. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of certain
permanent tax differences, including non-taxable investment income and tax credits for investments in low income housing, in relation to income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income tax, as well as certain foreign permanent
tax differences. The Company also recorded a $324 million tax benefit in the current year to reduce deferred income tax liabilities related to the conversion of the Japan branch to a subsidiary. In addition, as previously mentioned, the current year
includes a $1.9 billion ($1.6 billion, net of income tax) non-cash charge for goodwill impairment. The income tax benefit associated with this charge is limited to $247 million on the associated tax goodwill.   
  As more fully described in    Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures,  we use operating earnings, which
does not equate to income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, as determined in accordance with GAAP, to analyze our performance, evaluate segment performance, and allocate resources. We believe that the presentation of operating
earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders, as we measure it for management purposes, enhances the understanding of our performance by highlighting the results of operations and the underlying profitability drivers of the
business. Operating earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders should not be viewed as substitutes for GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, and GAAP net income (loss) available to MetLife,
Inc. s common shareholders, respectively. Operating earnings available to common shareholders increased $1.0 billion, net of income tax, to $5.7 billion, net of income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2012 from $4.7 billion, net of
income tax, in the prior year.   
         97   

Table of Contents  

      Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2010
        During the year ended December 31, 2011, income (loss) from continuing operations, before
provision for income tax, increased $5.5 billion ($3.8 billion, net of income tax) over the prior year primarily driven by a favorable change in net derivative gains (losses), partially offset by increased net investment losses, net of related
adjustments, principally associated with DAC and VOBA amortization. Also included in income (loss) from continuing operations, before provision for income tax, are the results of the Divested Businesses. In addition, operating earnings increased,
reflecting the impact of the ALICO Acquisition.      The variable annuity embedded derivatives and associated
freestanding derivative hedges are collectively referred to as  VA program derivatives  in the following table. All other derivatives that are economic hedges of certain invested assets and insurance liabilities are referred to as
 non-VA program derivatives  in the following table. The table below presents the impact on net derivative gains (losses) from non-VA program derivatives and VA program derivatives:   
   
    The favorable change in net derivative gains (losses) on non VA program derivatives
was $2.9 billion ($1.9 billion, net of income tax). This was primarily due to interest rates decreasing more in the current period than in the prior period favorably impacting receive fixed interest rate swaps, long interest rate floors,
long interest rate futures, and receiver swaptions. These freestanding derivatives are primarily hedging long duration liability portfolios. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar and Japanese yen relative to other key currencies favorably impacted
foreign currency forwards and swaps, which primarily hedge certain foreign denominated bonds. Additionally, the widening of credit spreads favorably impacted credit default swaps hedging certain bonds. Because certain of these hedging strategies are
not designated or do not qualify as accounting hedges, the changes in the estimated fair value of these freestanding derivatives are recognized in net derivative gains (losses) without an offsetting gain or loss recognized in earnings for the item
being hedged.      The favorable change in net derivative gains (losses) on VA program derivatives was $2.2
billion ($1.4 billion, net of income tax). This was due to an favorable change of $1.9 billion ($1.2 billion, net of income tax) related to the change in the nonperformance risk adjustment on embedded derivatives and a favorable change of $277
million ($180 million, net of income tax) on market and other risks in embedded derivatives, net of the impact of freestanding derivatives hedging those risks.   
         98   

Table of Contents  

   The favorable change of $277 million is comprised of a $3.2 billion ($2.1
billion, net of income tax) favorable change in freestanding derivatives that hedge market risks in embedded derivatives, partially offset by a $2.9 billion ($1.9 billion, net of income tax) unfavorable change in market and other risks in our
embedded derivatives, which was primarily driven by changes in market factors. The primary changes in market factors are summarized as follows:       

Key equity index levels decreased in the current period but were mixed in the prior period, and equity volatility was mixed in both the current
period and prior period. These changes contributed to a favorable change in our freestanding derivatives and an unfavorable change in our embedded derivatives.      

Long-term and mid-term interest rates decreased more in the current period than in the prior period and contributed to a favorable change in our
freestanding derivatives and unfavorable changes in our embedded derivatives.          

Changes in foreign currency exchange rates contributed to an unfavorable change in our freestanding derivatives and a favorable change in our
embedded derivatives.         The increase in net investment losses primarily reflects impairments
on Greece sovereign debt securities, intent-to-sell OTTI on other sovereign debt securities due to the repositioning of the ALICO portfolio into longer duration and higher yielding investments, intent-to-sell OTTI related to the Divested Businesses,
and lower net gains on sales of fixed maturity and equity securities. These losses were partially offset by net gains on the sales of certain real estate investments and reductions in the mortgage valuation allowance reflecting improving real estate
market fundamentals.      Income (loss) from continuing operations, before provision for income tax, related to
Divested Businesses, excluding net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), decreased $318 million to income of $65 million in 2011 compared to income of $383 million in 2010. Included in this loss was an increase in total
revenues of $28 million and an increase in total expenses of $346 million.      Income tax expense for the year
ended December 31, 2011 was $2.8 billion, or 30% of income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income tax, compared with $1.1 billion, or 30% of income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income tax, for
2010. The Company s 2011 and 2010 effective tax rates differ from the U.S. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of certain permanent tax differences, including non-taxable investment income and tax credits for investments in low
income housing, in relation to income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income tax, as well as certain foreign permanent tax differences.      Operating earnings available to common shareholders increased $1.1 billion, net of income tax, to $4.7 billion, net of income tax, in 2011 from $3.6 billion, net of income tax, in 2010.   
         99   

Table of Contents  

      Reconciliation of income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, to operating
earnings available to common shareholders           Year Ended December 31, 2012     
   
      Year Ended December 31, 2011     
   
      Year Ended December 31, 2010     
   
        (1) See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses for the components of such adjustments.   
         100

Table of Contents  

      Reconciliation of GAAP revenues to operating revenues and GAAP expenses to operating expenses
          Year Ended December 31, 2012         
        (1) See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses for the components of such adjustments.   
         101

Table of Contents  

     Consolidated Results   Operating     
   
       Year Ended December 31, 2012 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2011      
  Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.   
  Higher policy fee income, stronger investment results and favorable claims experience were the primary drivers of the
increase in operating earnings. In addition, the prior year included a $117 million charge in connection with our use of the U.S. Social Security Administration s Death Master File. These positive impacts on operating earnings were partially
offset by a $52 million charge taken in the first quarter of 2012 representing a multi state examination payment related to unclaimed property and our use of the U.S. Social Security Administration s Death Master File to identify potential
life insurance claims, as well as the expected acceleration of benefit payments to policyholders under the settlements. In addition, changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a $56 million negative impact on results compared to the prior year.
     We benefited from strong sales, as well as growth and higher persistency in our business across many of our
products. In our Retail segment, we implemented extensive changes to product pricing and variable annuity guarantee features which resulted in a significant decrease in variable annuity sales. However, as a result of stronger sales of variable
annuities in 2011, we experienced growth in both our average separate account assets and our investment portfolio. The growth in the average separate account assets generated higher policy fee income of $384 million. The growth in our investment
portfolio generated higher net investment income of $384 million. Since many of our products are interest spread based, the increase in net investment income was partially offset by a $345 million increase in interest credited expense,
most notably in the Corporate Benefit Funding and Asia segments. The decline in variable annuity sales also resulted in a decrease in commissions, despite higher sales from our international businesses, which was partially offset by a decrease in
related DAC capitalization which, combined, resulted in a $122 million increase to operating earnings. In addition, other non-variable expenses increased $310 million and our annuity business growth in 2011 was the primary driver of
  
         102

Table of Contents  

higher DAC amortization of $175 million in the current year. Higher premiums partially offset by higher policyholder benefits in our international segments improved operating earnings by $93
million.      The low interest rate environment continued to result in lower interest credited expense as we set
interest credited rates lower on both new business, as well as on certain in-force business with rate resets that are contractually tied to external indices or contain discretionary rate reset provisions. The improving equity markets resulted in
lower DAC amortization and higher fee income in our annuity business. Improved investment yields, excluding the Divested Businesses, were driven by the repositioning of the Japan portfolio, growth in higher yielding portfolios in the Asia and EMEA
segments, the impact of inflation-indexed investments in the Latin America segment, higher derivatives income primarily from interest rate floors and interest rate swaps entered into prior to the onset of the low interest rate environment, and
increased private equity income from improving equity markets. These improvements were partially offset by the unfavorable impact of the low interest rate environment on our fixed-income investments. Changes in market factors discussed above
resulted in a $441 million increase in operating earnings.      Lower severity of property  
casualty catastrophe claims in the current year increased operating earnings by $105 million as a result of severe storm activity in the prior year, which was greater than the impact of severe storm activity in the current year, primarily the result
of Superstorm Sandy. Less favorable mortality results in our Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits segment and unfavorable mortality in our Asia and Corporate Benefit Funding segments, was partially offset by favorable mortality in our
Retail segment. In addition, claims experience varied across our products with a net favorable result driven by a decrease in claims in our Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits segment. The combined impact of mortality and claims experience
decreased operating earnings by $79 million.      Liability and DAC refinements in both periods, primarily from
our Retail, Asia and Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits segments, resulted in a $190 million net increase in operating earnings. In addition, the prior period included $40 million of expenses incurred related to a liquidation plan filed
by the Department of Financial Services for ELNY and $39 million of insurance claims and operating expenses related to the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan. The current period included $103 million of employee related and other costs
associated with the Company s enterprise-wide strategic initiative and a $50 million impairment charge on an intangible asset related to a previously acquired dental business.   
  The Company benefited from the impact of certain permanent tax differences, including non-taxable investment income and
tax credits for investments in low income housing. As a result, our effective tax rates differ from the U.S. statutory rate of 35%. In 2012, we benefited primarily from higher utilization of tax preferenced investments, which improved operating
earnings by $65 million over the prior year.         Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2010
        Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.   
  The increase in operating earnings reflects the impact of the ALICO Acquisition with the corresponding effects on each of
our financial statement lines in Latin America, Asia and EMEA. Further trends and matters impacting our business and the comparison to 2010 results are discussed below.   
  Positive results from strong sales in 2011 were offset by losses from severe weather and the impact of the low interest
rate environment. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a slightly positive impact on results compared to 2010.      In 2011, we benefited from strong sales as well as growth and higher persistency in our business, across many of our products. As a result, we experienced growth in our investment portfolio, as well as
our average separate account assets, generating both higher net investment income of $565 million and higher policy fee income of $373 million. Since many of our products are interest spread-based, the growth in our individual life, LTC and
  
         103

Table of Contents  

structured settlement businesses also resulted in a $108 million increase in interest credited expenses. These increased sales also generated an increase in commission and other volume-related
expenses of $568 million, which was largely offset by an increase of $476 million in related DAC capitalization. DAC amortization also increased $79 million. In addition, other non-variable expenses increased $81 million due to growth in our
existing businesses.      We review and update our long-term assumptions used in our calculations of certain
insurance-related liabilities and DAC annually, which may result in changes and are recorded in the fourth quarter each year. This annual update, along with other reserve refinements, contributed to a net operating earnings increase of $59 million,
mainly in the universal life block of business. In addition, to better align with hedged risks, certain elements of our variable annuity hedging program that were previously recorded in net investment income were recorded in net derivative gains
(losses) beginning in 2011 which resulted in a decrease in operating earnings of $77 million.      In the fourth
quarter of 2011, we announced a reduction in our dividend scale related to our closed block. The impact of this action increased operating earnings by $54 million.   
  Severe weather during 2011 was the primary driver of our unfavorable claims experience in our property  
casualty business, which decreased operating earnings by $239 million. In addition, in the third quarter of 2011, we incurred a $117 million charge to increase reserves in connection with our use of the U.S. Social Security Administration s
Death Master File, impacting primarily Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits. These events overshadowed positive results of $76 million, driven by favorable claims experience in our dental and disability businesses and strong mortality gains
in our group life business.      Market factors, specifically the current low interest rate environment, continued
to be a challenge during 2011. Also in 2011, equity markets remained relatively flat compared to much stronger 2010 equity market performance. Excluding the impact of Divested Businesses, investment yields were negatively impacted by the current low
interest rate environment and lower returns in the equity markets, partially offset by improving real estate markets, resulting in a $322 million decrease in net investment income. Partially offsetting this decrease was a $134 million improvement in
operating earnings, primarily driven by lower average crediting rates on our annuity and funding agreement businesses. The lower average crediting rates continue to reflect the lower investment returns available in the marketplace. Also contributing
to the decrease in interest credited is the impact from derivatives that are used to hedge certain liabilities in our funding agreement business.      Interest expense on debt increased $81 million primarily as a result of debt issued in the third and fourth quarters of 2010 in connection with the ALICO Acquisition.   
  The Company incurred $40 million of expenses related to a liquidation plan filed by the Department of Financial Services
for ELNY in the third quarter of 2011.      The Company also benefited from higher tax credits in 2011 of $84
million over 2010 primarily due to $75 million of charges in 2010 related to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (together, the  Health Care Act ). The Health Care Act
reduced the tax deductibility of retiree health care costs to the extent of any Medicare Part D subsidy received beginning in 2013. Because the deductibility of future retiree health care costs was reflected in our financial statements, the entire
future impact of this change in law was required to be recorded as a charge in the first quarter of 2010, when the legislation was enacted. The Company benefits from the impact of certain permanent tax differences, including non-taxable investment
income and tax credits for investments in low income housing. As a result, our effective tax rates differ from the U.S. statutory rate of 35%. In 2011, we benefited primarily from higher utilization of tax preferenced investments, which improved
operating earnings by $9 million over the prior period.   
         104

Table of Contents  

     Segment Results and Corporate   Other     
     Retail          
      Year Ended December 31, 2012 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2011
       Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.   
  We implemented extensive changes to product pricing and variable annuity guarantee features as we continued to manage
sales volume, focusing on pricing discipline and risk management in this challenging economic environment. These actions resulted in a net decrease in the overall segment sales in the current year, most notably a $10.7 billion, or 38% decrease in
variable annuity sales which were $17.7 billion in 2012. Consistent with the decrease in sales, retail life and annuity net flows were down $12.2 billion compared to the prior year.   
  Stronger sales of variable annuities in the prior year increased our average separate account assets and, as a result,
generated higher asset-based fee revenues, partially offset by increases in non-deferrable expenses, increases in guaranteed minimum death benefit liabilities and higher DAC amortization related to the strong prior year sales. Positive net flows
from life products, as well as higher allocated equity for annuities increased net investment income. These positive net flows also contributed to higher DAC amortization. Business growth, mainly in our traditional life products, generated higher
interest credited expense; however, this was somewhat mitigated by a decrease in interest credited on deferred annuities where normal surrenders and withdrawals were greater than sales for the year, resulting in negative net flows. In our
property   casualty business, the increase in average premium per policy in both auto and homeowners businesses improved operating earnings, but was partially offset by a decrease in exposures. We experienced a decrease in exposures as the
negative impact from lower premiums exceeded the positive impact from lower claims. The net impact of these items resulted in a $198 million increase in operating earnings.   
  The improving equity market resulted in higher fee income from increased separate account balances, a decrease in
variable annuity guaranteed minimum death benefit liabilities and lower DAC amortization. In addition, the low interest rate environment continued to result in lower interest credited expense, as we reduced
  
         105

Table of Contents  

interest credited rates on contracts with discretionary rate reset provisions. Higher derivatives income from interest rate floors purchased prior to the onset of the low interest rate
environment and higher returns on our private equity investments more than offset the decrease in yields on other invested asset classes. The net impact of these items resulted in a $174 million increase in operating earnings.   
  In our property   casualty business, catastrophe-related losses decreased $74 million compared to 2011 mainly
due to the severe storm activity during the second and third quarters of 2011, which were greater than the impact of severe storm activity in the fourth quarter of 2012, primarily the result of Superstorm Sandy. Current year non-catastrophe claim
costs decreased $17 million as a result of lower claim frequencies in our homeowners businesses. Higher severities in both our auto and homeowners business resulted in a $23 million increase in claims. The impact of this can be seen in the favorable
change in the combined ratio, including catastrophes, to 97.9% in 2012 from 107.3% in 2011. The combined ratio, excluding catastrophes, was 85.8% in 2012, compared to 88.2% in the prior year. Favorable mortality experience in the traditional life
business was partially offset by unfavorable mortality experience in the variable and universal life and income annuities businesses resulting in a $21 million increase in operating earnings. The current year results included a charge of $26 million
for the expected acceleration of benefit payments to policyholders under a multi-state examination related to unclaimed property. The prior year results included a charge of $28 million, in connection with the Company s use of the U.S. Social
Security Administration s Death Master File.      On an annual basis, we review and update our long-term
assumptions used in our calculations of certain insurance-related liabilities and DAC. This annual update resulted in a net operating earnings increase of $43 million. This favorable adjustment was primarily related to DAC unlockings in the
variable annuities business, partially offset by an increase in the liability for the secondary guarantees in the universal life business. In addition to our annual updates, certain insurance-related liability and DAC refinements were recorded in
both the current and prior year. The net impact of these refinements was a $113 million increase in operating earnings. In our closed block, the impact of the dividend scale reduction, which was announced in the fourth quarter of 2011, increased
operating earnings by $19 million, net of DAC amortization.        Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared with the Year
Ended December 31, 2010        Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income
tax.      In 2011, operating results for our property   casualty business were negatively impacted by
severe weather, including a record number of tornadoes in the second quarter and Hurricane Irene in the third quarter. Overall sales increased, largely driven by a 51% increase in annuity sales, which grew to $30.4 billion, mainly from strong growth
in variable annuities across all distribution channels. However, the favorable impact of our sales growth was dampened by the sustained low interest rate environment. Variable annuity product sales increased primarily due to the introduction of a
new higher benefit, lower-risk variable annuity rider and changes in competitors  offerings which, we believe, made our products more attractive. We launched several changes to our annuity products and riders that are expected to reduce sales
volumes in 2012, as we manage sales to strike the right balance among growth, profitability and risk. Retail life and annuity net flows were $18.6 billion, $8.7 billion higher than 2010.   
  Sales growth in variable annuities and in our variable and universal life products, along with higher persistency in
2011, resulted in an increase in operating earnings of $295 million. The growth in variable products increased average separate account assets and, as a result, generated higher asset-based fee revenue on the separate account assets, partially
offset by increases in DAC amortization. This, coupled with the impact of positive net flows on invested assets, increased net investment income. Partially offsetting the positive impact from the strong sales of variable annuities, were increases in
variable expenses, net of DAC capitalization. In addition, this business growth generated higher interest credited on policyholder account balances as well as on certain future policyholder benefits. The aforementioned increase in our variable and
universal life products was mainly driven by our launch of a new product in the current year, coupled with ongoing organic growth in the   
         106

Table of Contents  

business. The expected run-off of the traditional life closed block offset this growth. While property   casualty sales declined, due to sluggish housing and new automobile markets, an
increase in average premium per policy in both our homeowners and auto businesses improved operating earnings by $39 million. This was partially offset by a $14 million negative impact to operating earnings due to the decline in exposures; the
negative impact from lower premiums exceeded the positive impact from lower claims. This negative impact was coupled with a $9 million increase in expenses, mainly higher commissions, resulting from the increase in average premium per policy.
     Changes in interest rates and equity markets can significantly impact our earnings. In 2011, interest rates
declined while equity markets remained relatively flat compared with much stronger 2010 equity market performance. These changes in interest rates and equity markets reduced operating earnings by $281 million, including the related acceleration of
DAC amortization. Lower investment returns in all products and higher interest crediting expense in the life products were partially offset by lower average interest crediting rates on annuity fixed rate funds. Our annuity interest crediting rates
continue to reflect the lower investment returns available in the marketplace, while in our other products, reduced investment returns are not reflected as quickly in interest rates credited on policyholder account balances or on certain future
policyholder benefits.      Catastrophe-related losses in our property   casualty business increased $117
million compared to 2010, mainly due to severe storm activity. Also, 2011 non-catastrophe claim costs increased $41 million as a result of higher claim frequencies, primarily due to severe winter weather, wind and hail. In addition, a $40 million
decrease in operating earnings was the result of poor mortality experience from our variable life, universal life and income annuity businesses, partially offset by slightly improved mortality experience in the traditional life business. We review
and update our long-term assumptions used in our calculations of certain insurance-related liabilities and DAC annually, which may result in changes and are recorded in the fourth quarter each year. This annual update, along with other reserve
refinements, contributed to a net operating earnings increase of $84 million, mainly in the universal life block of business. These favorable adjustments, primarily related to DAC unlocking, were partially offset by a $28 million charge related to
our use of the U.S. Social Security Administration s Death Master File.      The impact of the items
discussed above, related to the property   casualty business, can be seen in the unfavorable change in the combined ratio, including catastrophes, to 107.3% in 2011 from 95.2% in 2010. The combined ratio, excluding catastrophes, was 88.2%
in 2011 compared to 86.8% in 2010.      Two items in 2011 had the net impact of a $23 million reduction to
operating earnings. First, to better align with hedged risks, certain elements of our variable annuity hedging program that were previously recorded in net investment income were recorded in net derivative gains (losses) beginning in 2011, which
resulted in a decrease in operating earnings of $77 million. The second item was a reduction to our dividend scale related to our closed block, which was announced in the fourth quarter of 2011. The impact of this action increased operating earnings
by $54 million.   
         107

Table of Contents  

      Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits      
   
      Year Ended December 31, 2012 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2011
       Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.   
  Most of our businesses continued to experience growth in 2012, as the economy has continued to slowly improve. Our group
term life and disability businesses grew as a result of new sales, and our dental business continued to benefit from strong enrollments and renewals, as well as premiums associated with the implementation of a new dental contract from a large
customer that began in the second quarter of 2012. Although we have discontinued selling our LTC product, we continue to collect premiums and administer the existing block of business, contributing to asset growth in the segment. Although policy
sales for both auto and homeowners decreased as compared to the prior year, the impact of an increase in the average premium for new policies sold more than offset the decline in policy sales.   
  Lower severity of property   casualty catastrophe claims in the current year increased operating earnings by $31
million, mainly as a result of severe storm activity in the second and third quarters of 2011, which were greater than the impact of severe storm activity in the fourth quarter of 2012, primarily the result of Superstorm Sandy. While
property   casualty non-catastrophe claims experience was relatively flat year over year, an increase in severity of $24 million, was largely offset by lower claims frequency of $20 million. A decrease in claims in our dental, disability
and accidental death and dismemberment businesses resulted in a $28 million increase to operating earnings. Lower utilization in our dental business, as well as lower incidence and approvals in our disability business drove this improvement in
operating earnings. A decrease in operating earnings of $72 million resulted from less favorable mortality experience in our life businesses, mainly due to very strong mortality experience in the prior year, which was partially offset by the
favorable net impact of reserve refinements of $30 million that occurred in both years. The mortality ratio for our life businesses has returned to a more historically representative level of 87.9% in 2012, as adjusted for the aforementioned
favorable reserve refinements, from a near record low of 86.1% in the prior year, as adjusted for a prior year charge related to our use of the U.S. Social Security Administration s Death Master File. In our life businesses, the impact of the
aforementioned prior year charge contributed $81 million to the increase in operating earnings. The impact of the items discussed above related to the property   casualty business can be seen in the favorable change in the combined ratio,
including catastrophes, to 96.5% in 2012 from 101.9% in the prior year, as well as the favorable change in the combined ratio, excluding catastrophes, to 88.7% in 2012 from 90.2% in the prior year.   
         108

Table of Contents  

   Current year premiums and deposits, together with growth in the securities
lending program, partially offset by a reduction in allocated equity, have resulted in an increase in our average invested assets, contributing $10 million to operating earnings. Consistent with the growth in average invested assets from
current year premiums and deposits, primarily in our LTC business, interest credited on long-duration contracts and policyholder account balances increased by $15 million. Current year results include a $50 million impairment charge on an intangible
asset, related to a previously acquired dental business, as well as increased expenses associated with the implementation of the new dental contract in the second quarter of 2012, partially offset by lower marketing and sales-related expenses in our
LTC business. An increase in the average premium per policy in both our auto and homeowners businesses, as well as an increase in exposures, improved operating earnings by $34 million.   
  The impact of the low interest rate environment combined with lower returns in the real estate and alternative investment
markets resulted in a decline in investment yields on our fixed maturity securities, securities lending program, real estate joint ventures and alternative investments. Unlike in the Retail and Corporate Benefit Funding segments, a change in
investment yield does not necessarily drive a corresponding change in the rates credited on certain insurance liabilities. The reduction in investment yield was partially offset by marginally lower crediting rates in the current year, and resulted
in a $3 million decrease in operating earnings.        Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared with the Year Ended
December 31, 2010        Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.
     In 2011, strong mortality and morbidity results coupled with the net impact of asset growth in our life and
health businesses, as well as additional favorable development of prior year losses in our property   casualty business contributed to the increase in operating earnings. These positive results were significantly offset by the negative
impact of severe weather in our property   casualty business, including a record number of tornadoes in the second quarter and Hurricane Irene in the third quarter. In addition, 2011 results for our life business include a charge taken in
the third quarter related to the use of the U.S. Social Security Administration s Death Master File. The impacts of the sustained low interest rate environment also depressed operating earnings.   
  Policy sales in our property   casualty business decreased as the housing and new automobile sales markets
remained sluggish. However, average premium per policy increased for both our homeowners and auto policies and we benefited from additional growth in exposures over the prior period. For our life and health businesses, sustained high levels of
unemployment and a challenging pricing environment continued to depress growth. Our dental business benefited from higher enrollment and certain pricing actions, but this was more than offset by a decline in revenues from our disability business.
This reduction was mainly due to net customer cancellations and lower covered lives. Our LTC revenues were flat period over period, consistent with the discontinuance of the sale of this coverage at the end of 2010.   
  Although revenues have declined from the prior year, current year premiums and deposits resulted in an increase in our
average invested assets, which contributed $74 million to operating earnings. Mirroring the net growth in average invested assets, primarily in our LTC business, interest credited on long-duration contracts and on our PABs increased by $16 million.
The increase in average premium per policy in both our homeowners and auto businesses improved operating earnings by $21 million and the net increase in exposures resulted in a $10 million increase in operating earnings as the positive impact
from higher premiums exceeded the negative impact from higher claims. Higher commissions, resulting from the aforementioned increase in average premium per policy, coupled with an increase in other volume-related expenses, contributed to a $9
million increase in other expenses, including the net change in DAC. In our dental business, expenses related to the implementation of a large contract decreased operating earnings by $14 million.   
  Lower claims incidence resulted in very strong life mortality experience, and contributed $71 million to operating
earnings. Pricing actions and improved claims experience, mainly the result of stabilizing benefits utilization, drove a $57 million increase in our dental results. Higher closures and lower incidence in 2011
  
         109

Table of Contents  

contributed to the $43 million increase in our disability results. In our property   casualty business, additional favorable development of prior year losses contributed $14 million to
operating earnings. Partially offsetting these increases to operating earnings, catastrophe-related losses increased $70 million compared to 2010, mainly due to severe storm activity in the U.S. during the second and third quarters of 2011. In
addition, current year non-catastrophe claim costs increased $34 million as a result of higher claim frequencies in both our auto and homeowners businesses, due primarily to more severe winter weather in the first quarter of 2011 and to
non-catastrophe wind and hail through the remainder of the year. In our life business, an $81 million charge related to our use of the U.S. Social Security Administration s Death Master File, contributed to the decrease in operating earnings
during the third quarter of the current year. Lastly, LTC results decreased $10 million resulting from less favorable claims experience in the current period.      The impact of the items discussed above, related to our property   casualty business, can be seen in the unfavorable change in the combined ratio, including catastrophes, to 101.9% in 2011 from
93.8% in 2010. The combined ratio, excluding catastrophes, was 90.2% in 2011 and 90.0% in 2010.      Market
factors, specifically the current low interest rate environment, continued to be a challenge during 2011. Investment yields were negatively impacted by lower returns on our fixed maturity securities portfolio, a decrease in the crediting rate on
allocated equity as well as lower returns in the equity markets on our private equity investments. The changes in market factors discussed above resulted in a $26 million decrease in operating earnings.   
     Corporate Benefit Funding          
      Year Ended December 31, 2012 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2011
       Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.   
  The sustained low interest rate environment has resulted in underfunded pension plans, which limits our customers 
ability to engage in full pension plan closeout terminations. However, we expect that customers may choose to close out portions of pension plans over time, at costs reflecting current interest rates and availability of capital. During 2012, the
conversion of an existing contract involving the transfer of funds from the separate   
         110

Table of Contents  

account to the general account resulted in a significant increase in premiums in our domestic closeout business. Structured settlement sales have decreased $463 million, before income tax,
reflecting a more competitive market and a decrease in demand due to the low interest rate environment. Changes in premiums for these businesses were almost entirely offset by the related changes in policyholder benefits. The impact of current year
premiums, deposits, funding agreement issuances, and increased participation in the securities lending program, contributed to an increase in invested assets, resulting in an increase of $179 million in operating earnings. The growth in premiums,
deposits and funding agreement issuances generally result in a corresponding increase in interest credited on certain insurance liabilities; this decreased operating earnings by $158 million in 2012 as compared to 2011.   
  Expenses declined largely as a result of disciplined spending and a decrease in sales volume-related costs, such as
commissions and premium taxes. A decrease in structured settlement commissions was partially offset by an increase in commissions from sales of funding agreements, which improved operating earnings by $23 million.   
  The low interest rate environment continued to impact our investment returns, as well as interest credited on certain
insurance liabilities. Lower investment returns on our fixed maturity securities and securities lending program were partially offset by increased earnings on interest rate derivatives and on private equity investments from improved equity markets.
Many of our funding agreement and guaranteed interest contract liabilities have interest credited rates that are contractually tied to external indices and, as a result, we set lower interest credited rates on new business, as well as on existing
business with terms that can fluctuate. The positive impact of lower interest credited rates was partially offset by an increase in interest credited expense resulting from the impact of derivatives that are used to hedge certain liabilities. The
net impact of lower interest credited expense and lower investment returns resulted in an increase in operating earnings of $43 million.      The net impact of insurance liability refinements in the current and prior year coupled with a prior year charge in connection with our use of the U.S. Social Security Administration s Death Master
File in our post-retirement benefit business increased operating earnings by $31 million. This increase was partially offset by unfavorable mortality experience in the pension closeout businesses which resulted in an $8 million decrease in operating
earnings.        Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2010     
  Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.   
  Corporate Benefit Funding had strong pension closeout sales in the United Kingdom ( U.K. ), and strong sales of
structured settlements. Although the combination of poor equity returns and the low interest rate environment has resulted in underfunded pension plans, which reduces our customers  flexibility to engage in transactions such as pension
closeouts, sales in the U.K. remained strong as we continue to penetrate that market. Sales in our structured settlement business were strong as we remain very competitive in the marketplace. Premiums for these businesses were almost entirely offset
by the related change in policyholder benefits. However, current year premiums, deposits, funding agreement issuances, an increase in allocated equity, and the expansion of our securities lending program, all contributed to the growth of our average
invested assets, which led to an increase in net investment income. This growth in premiums, deposits and funding agreement issuances also increased the interest credited on future policyholder liabilities and policyholder account balances. The net
result of these increases contributed $114 million to operating earnings.      Market factors, including the
current low interest rate environment, have negatively impacted our investment returns. However, the low interest rate environment also decreased interest credited to policyholders and the interest credited expense associated with insurance
liabilities. Many of our funding agreement and guaranteed interest contract liabilities are tied to market indices. Interest rates on new business were set lower, as were the rates on existing business with terms that can fluctuate. The lower
investment returns were more than offset by the decrease in interest credited expense, resulting in an increase in operating earnings of $75 million. The lower investment returns also includes the impact of returns on invested economic capital, and
the decrease in interest credited is impacted by derivatives that are used to hedge certain liabilities in our funding agreement business.   
         111

Table of Contents  

   The Company s use of the U.S. Social Security Administration s
Death Master File in connection with our post-retirement benefit business resulted in a charge in the third quarter of the current year of $8 million. Other insurance liability refinements and mortality results negatively impacted our year-over-year
operating earnings by $34 million.         Latin America      
   
      Year Ended December 31, 2012 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2011
       Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.   
  Operating earnings increased by $69 million over the prior year. The impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates
reduced operating earnings by $30 million for 2012 compared to 2011.      Latin America experienced strong sales
growth primarily driven by retirement products in Mexico, Chile and Brazil and by accident and health products in Argentina and Chile. Changes in premiums for these products were almost entirely offset by the related changes in policyholder benefits
and unfavorable claims experience. The growth in our businesses drove an increase in average invested assets, which generated higher net investment income and higher policy fee income, partially offset by an increase in interest credited to
policyholders. The increase in sales also generated higher commission expense, which was partially offset by a corresponding increase in DAC capitalization. The items discussed above, coupled with a change in allocated equity, were the primary
drivers of a $41 million improvement in operating earnings.      Market factors increased operating earnings by
$15 million. An increase in investment yields primarily reflects higher returns on fixed maturities from a repositioning of the portfolio in Argentina and higher returns on variable rate investments in Brazil, partially offset by a corresponding
increase in interest credited expense. A decrease in net investment income from lower inflation in the prior year was substantially offset by a corresponding decrease in policyholder benefits.   
         112

Table of Contents  

   Current year results include various favorable income tax items of $38
million in Argentina, Mexico and Chile. In addition, the current year results benefited from liability refinements of $22 million in Chile and Mexico which were partially offset by an unfavorable DAC capitalization adjustment in Chile and a
write-off of capitalized software in Mexico.        Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared with the Year Ended
December 31, 2010        Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.
     Operating earnings increased by $91 million over 2010 primarily as a result of the inclusion of a full year
of results of ALICO s operations for 2011 compared to one month of results for 2010, which contributed $36 million to the operating earnings increase for the segment. The positive impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates improved
reported earnings by $15 million for 2011 compared to the prior year.      Latin America experienced strong sales
growth driven primarily by accident   health products. In addition, sales of retirement products in Mexico as well as immediate annuity products in Chile increased over the prior year. Net investment income increased due to increased
average invested assets and higher fee income on universal life products, primarily in Mexico, also favorably impacted operating earnings. Commissions and compensation expenses were higher in Mexico and Brazil due to business growth, which is offset
by DAC capitalization. Other expenses also increased over the prior year due to growth in the businesses. Growth in our businesses contributed $144 million to operating earnings. As a result of the ALICO Acquisition and growth in the business, Latin
America s results reflect higher corporate expenses of $18 million, which decreased operating earnings.   
  Changes in market factors negatively impacted investment yields, which resulted in a $63 million decrease to operating
earnings. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2010, investment earnings and interest credited related to contractholder-directed unit-linked investments were excluded from operating revenues and operating expenses, as the contractholder, and not the
Company, directs the investment of the funds. This change in presentation had no impact on operating earnings in the current period; however, it resulted in a decrease in net investment income in Brazil in 2011, when compared to 2010, as positive
returns were experienced in 2010 from recovering equity markets. A corresponding decrease is reflected in interest credited expense.      Operating earnings were also adversely impacted by a tax refund in the prior period which reduced operating earnings by $23 million.   
         113

Table of Contents  

      Asia      
   
      Year Ended December 31, 2012 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2011
       Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.   
  Operating earnings increased by $157 million over the prior period. The impact of changes in foreign currency exchange
rates reduced operating earnings by $3 million for 2012 compared to the prior year.      Asia experienced sales
growth in ordinary and universal life products in Japan, resulting in higher premiums and universal life fees, and variable life and accident   health products in Korea, which drove higher fees over the prior period. Changes in premiums for
these businesses were partially offset by related changes in policyholder benefits. In addition, average invested assets increased over the prior year, reflecting positive cash flows from our annuity business in Japan generating increases in both
net investment income and policy fee income, partially offset by an increase in interest credited to policyholders. The increase in sales also generated higher commissions and other sales-related expenses, which were partially offset by an increase
in related DAC capitalization. The combined impact of the items discussed above improved operating earnings by $99 million.      The repositioning of the Japan investment portfolio to longer duration and higher yielding investments in addition to improved results on our private equity investments, contributed to an increase in
investment yields. In addition, yields improved as a result of growth in the Australian and U.S. dollar annuity businesses, reflecting a higher yielding and more diversified portfolio of Australian and U.S. dollar investments. These improvements in
investment yields increased operating earnings by $132 million.      On an annual basis, we review and update our
long-term assumptions used in our calculation of certain insurance-related liabilities and DAC, which resulted in a $51 million net decrease to operating earnings. This adjustment was primarily related to changes in Japan that assumed the
continuation of the current lower interest rates and reflected the trend of lower long-term lapses resulting in a decrease in operating earnings of $44 million. In addition, in Korea more policyholders chose to annuitize rather than receive a
lump sum payment at maturity; this trend, combined with changes in future expected persistency, expenses and lapses, resulted in a decrease in operating earnings of $9 million in Korea.   
         114

Table of Contents  

   Unfavorable claims experience in the current year decreased operating
earnings by $38 million. Prior year results in Japan included $39 million of insurance claims and operating expenses related to the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami. In addition, a prior period tax benefit in Korea and Australia, combined with
current year tax expense related to net operating loss carryforwards in Hong Kong, resulted in a $21 million net decrease in operating earnings.        Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2010        Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.      Operating earnings increased by $656 million over 2010 as a result of the inclusion of a full year of results of ALICO s operations for 2011 compared to one month of results for 2010, which
contributed $796 million to the operating earnings increase for the segment. The positive impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates improved reported earnings by $6 million for 2011 compared to the prior year.   
  The Japanese economy, to which we face substantial exposure given our operations there, was significantly negatively
impacted by the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami. During 2011, the Company incurred $39 million of incremental insurance claims and operating expenses related to the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami, which is included in the aforementioned
ALICO results.      Sales results continued to show steady growth and improvement, with increases over 2010 in
essentially all of our businesses. Strong variable universal life sales and the launch of new accident   health products in Korea drove higher premiums and universal life fees over the prior year. Premiums were lower compared to the prior
year in Hong Kong due to a decline in life sales, and in Australia despite growth in group sales. An increase in average invested assets generated higher net investment income and policy fees. Operating expenses increased primarily driven by higher
commissions and compensation expenses in Korea due to business growth, partially offset by an increase in DAC capitalization. DAC amortization also increased due to business growth. As a result of the ALICO Acquisition and growth in the business,
Asia s results reflect higher corporate expenses of $77 million, which decreased operating earnings.   
  Investment yields were negatively impacted by lower returns on allocated equity and a decrease in the results of our
operating joint venture in China. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2010, investment earnings and interest credited related to contractholder-directed unit-linked investments were excluded from operating revenues and operating expenses, as the
contractholder, and not the Company, directs the investment of the funds. This change in presentation had no impact on operating earnings in the current period; however, it resulted in a decrease in net investment income in Hong Kong in 2011, when
compared to 2010, as positive returns were experienced in 2010 from recovering equity markets. A corresponding decrease is reflected in interest credited expense.   
  The impact of the sale of our operating joint venture in Japan on April 1, 2011 decreased operating results by $28
million, as no earnings were recognized in 2011.      Unfavorable claims experience resulted in a $16 million
decline in operating earnings over the prior period.   
         115

Table of Contents  

      EMEA      
   
      Year Ended December 31, 2012 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2011
       Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.   
  Operating earnings increased by $20 million over 2011. The impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates reduced
operating earnings by $23 million for 2012 compared to 2011 and resulted in significant variances in the financial statement line items. The fourth quarter 2011 purchase of a Turkish life insurance and pension company and the third quarter 2012
acquisition of life insurance businesses in the Czech Republic, Hungary and Romania from the members of the Aviva Plc group increased operating earnings by $15 million.   
  The segment continued to experience business growth; however, certain European countries in the region continued to be
affected by the challenging economic environment. Sales for all major product lines increased when compared to 2011 across all geographic regions. Retirement sales were generated primarily by strong sales of variable annuity products in western
Europe. Accident and health sales increased primarily due to the establishment of a new direct marketing channel in the Middle East. Life insurance sales increased primarily due to variable life sales in the Middle East. Credit life sales increased
primarily due to sales in the Middle East and eastern and southern Europe resulting in higher premiums and policyholder benefits. Operating expenses increased across all regions due to business growth, including higher lease expenses and payroll
costs due to business expansion in western Europe. The increased sales generated an increase in commissions, which was largely offset by related DAC capitalization. Fee income increased largely due to higher sales of variable life products in
central and western Europe. The combined impact of the items discussed above reduced operating earnings by $24 million.      Operating earnings were negatively affected by lower net investment income of $56 million, primarily due to the disposal of certain closed blocks of business in the U.K. and lower average invested assets
as a result of dividends paid to MetLife, Inc. at the end of 2011.   
         116

Table of Contents  

   Operating earnings increased $74 million reflecting higher investment
yields. The increase in yields reflects higher returns on certain securities, primarily in Poland, and higher returns on mutual fund investments, primarily in Greece (both driven by improving equity markets), as well as invested asset growth in
higher yielding markets including Egypt and the Ukraine.      Operating earnings benefited by $13 million
primarily due to a release of negative VOBA associated with the conversion of certain policies, partially offset by an adjustment related to additional liabilities for annuitants. In addition, income tax was lower in 2012 by $18 million primarily
due to permanently reinvested earnings in Poland.        Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared with the Year Ended
December 31, 2010        Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.
     Operating earnings increased by $258 million over 2010 as a result of the inclusion of a full year of results
of ALICO s operations for 2011 compared to one month of results for 2010, which contributed $295 million to the operating earnings increase for the segment. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a slightly positive impact on 2011
results compared to the prior year.      In 2011, EMEA experienced strong variable life and annuity sales, which
drove higher premiums and a corresponding increase in policyholder benefits. Operating expenses increased primarily due to higher commissions and compensation expenses in Ireland due to business growth, which is partially offset by DAC
capitalization. Growth in our businesses, combined with growth in average invested assets, contributed $11 million to operating earnings. As a result of the ALICO Acquisition and growth in the business, EMEA s results reflect higher corporate
expenses of $44 million, which decreased operating earnings.      Market factors had a slight negative impact to
operating earnings. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2010, investment earnings and interest credited related to contractholder-directed unit-linked investments were excluded from operating revenues and operating expenses, as the contractholder,
and not the Company, directs the investment of the funds. This change in presentation had no impact on operating earnings in the current period; however, it resulted in a decrease in net investment income in Ireland in 2011, when compared to 2010,
as positive returns were experienced in 2010 from recovering equity markets. A corresponding decrease is reflected in interest credited expense.      Unfavorable claims experience, primarily in the U.K., resulted in a $7 million decline in operating earnings from the prior year.   
         117

Table of Contents  

      Corporate   Other      
   
      Year Ended December 31, 2012 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2011
       Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.   
  Operating earnings available to common shareholders and operating earnings each decreased $85 million, primarily due to
lower net investment income, higher expenses and lower earnings on invested assets that were funded using the Federal Home Loan Bank ( FHLB ) advances. These decreases were partially offset by lower interest expense on debt and higher tax
credits.      In 2012, the Company incurred $103 million of employee-related costs associated with its
enterprise-wide strategic initiative. In the first quarter of 2012, the Company also incurred a $26 million charge representing a multi state examination payment related to unclaimed property and MetLife s use of the U.S. Social Security
Administration s Death Master File. In addition, advertising costs were $10 million higher compared to the prior year. Partially offsetting these charges were $40 million of expenses incurred in the prior year related to the liquidation plan
filed by the Department of Financial Services for ELNY. In addition, the current year included $15 million of lower rent expense and $12 million of lower internal resource costs for associates committed to the ALICO Acquisition.   
  Net investment income decreased $31 million, excluding the FHLB which is discussed below and the divested MetLife Bank
operations, driven by an increase in the amount credited to the segments due to growth in the economic capital managed by Corporate   Other on their behalf and lower returns from our alternative investments, partially offset by higher
returns on real estate joint ventures.      Operating earnings on invested assets that were funded using the FHLB
advances decreased $35 million, reflected by decreases in net investment income and interest expense on debt, due to the transfer of $3.8 billion of FHLB advances and underlying assets from MetLife Bank to Corporate Benefit Funding in April 2012.
  
         118

Table of Contents  

   Corporate   Other benefits from the impact of certain permanent tax
differences, including non-taxable investment income and tax credits for investments in low income housing. As a result, our effective tax rates differ from the U.S. statutory rate of 35%. In 2012, we benefited primarily from higher utilization of
tax preferenced investments which improved operating earnings by $32 million from the prior year.      Interest
expense on debt, excluding the FHLB which is discussed above, decreased $25 million primarily due to maturity of $750 million in long-term debt in December 2011.        Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2010        Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.      MetLife, Inc. completed four debt financings in August 2010 in connection with the ALICO Acquisition, issuing $1.0 billion of 2.375% senior notes, $1.0 billion of 4.75% senior notes, $750 million of
5.875% senior notes, and $250 million of floating rate senior notes. MetLife, Inc. also issued debt securities in November 2010, which are part of the $3.0 billion stated value of common equity units. The proceeds from these debt issuances were used
to finance the ALICO Acquisition.      Operating earnings available to common shareholders and operating earnings
each increased $43 million, primarily due to higher net investment income, higher operating earnings on invested assets that were funded using the FHLB advances and higher tax credits. These increases were partially offset by an increase in interest
expense on debt of $81 million, primarily resulting from the 2010 debt issuances and an increase in other expenses. Lower earnings from the assumed reinsurance of a variable annuity business and the resolutions of certain legal matters in 2010 also
decreased operating earnings.      Net investment income, excluding the FHLB and assumed reinsurance which are
discussed below and the divested MetLife Bank operations, increased $105 million reflecting an increase of $125 million from higher yields, partially offset by a $20 million decrease from a decline in average invested assets. Yields were primarily
impacted by the decline in interest rates, resulting in lower crediting rates on the economic capital invested on the segment s behalf, partially offset by lower returns on our private equity and alternative investments. Our investments
primarily include structured securities, investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans and U.S. Treasury and agency securities. In addition, our investment portfolio includes the excess capital not allocated to the segments.
Accordingly, it includes a higher allocation to certain other invested asset classes to provide additional diversification and opportunity for long term yield enhancement, including leveraged leases, other limited partnership interests, real
estate, real estate joint ventures, FVO and trading securities and equity securities.      Operating earnings on
invested assets that were funded using FHLB advances increased $20 million, reflected by increases in net investment income and interest expense on debt, due to growth in long-term FHLB borrowings, primarily associated with growth in mortgages.
     Corporate   Other benefits from the impact of certain permanent tax differences, including
non-taxable investment income and tax credits for investments in low income housing. As a result, our effective tax rates differ from the U.S. statutory rate of 35%. Corporate   Other benefited in 2011 from higher tax credits of
$133 million over 2010 primarily due to $75 million of charges in 2010 related to the Health Care Act and higher utilization of tax preferenced investments in 2011.   
  The Company incurred $40 million of expenses related to a liquidation plan filed by the Department of Financial Services
for ELNY in the third quarter of 2011. In addition, the Company had higher advertising costs of $15 million and internal resources costs for associates committed to the ALICO Acquisition increased by $13 million. Minor fluctuations in various
other expense categories, such as interest on uncertain tax positions, and discretionary spending, such as consulting and postemployment related costs, offset each other and resulted in a small increase to earnings. Additionally, the resolutions of
certain legal matters in the prior period resulted in $39 million of lower operating earnings for 2011.   
         119

Table of Contents  

   The earnings associated with the assumed reinsurance of certain variable
annuity products from our former operating joint venture in Japan decreased $35 million. This was primarily due to an increase in benefit liabilities resulting from lower returns in the underlying funds and lower net investment income, partially
offset by higher fee income due to business growth.         Effects of Inflation    
  Management believes that inflation has not had a material effect on the Company s consolidated results of
operations, except insofar as inflation may affect interest rates.      An increase in inflation could affect our
business in several ways. During inflationary periods, the value of fixed income investments falls which could increase realized and unrealized losses. Inflation also increases expenses for labor and other materials, potentially putting pressure on
profitability if such costs cannot be passed through in our product prices. Inflation could also lead to increased costs for losses and loss adjustment expenses in certain of our businesses, which could require us to adjust our pricing to reflect
our expectations for future inflation. Prolonged and elevated inflation could adversely affect the financial markets and the economy generally, and dispelling it may require governments to pursue a restrictive fiscal and monetary policy, which could
constrain overall economic activity, inhibit revenue growth and reduce the number of attractive investment opportunities.        
 Investments         Investment Risks     
  Our primary investment objective is to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted
total return while ensuring that assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. We are exposed to the following primary sources of investment risk:   

credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest;

interest rate risk, relating to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in market interest rates. Changes in market
interest rates can result from governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control, and will impact the net unrealized gain or loss position of our fixed income
investment portfolio and the rates of return we receive on both new funds invested and reinvestment of existing funds.          

liquidity risk, relating to the diminished ability to sell certain investments, in times of strained market conditions;

market valuation risk, relating to the variability in the estimated fair value of investments associated with changes in market factors such as
credit spreads. A widening of credit spreads will adversely impact the net unrealized gain (loss) position of the fixed income investment portfolio, will increase losses associated with credit-based non-qualifying derivatives where we assume credit
exposure, and, if credit spreads widen significantly or for an extended period of time, will likely result in higher other-than-temporary impairments ( OTTI ). Credit spread tightening will reduce net investment income associated with
purchases of fixed maturity securities and will favorably impact the net unrealized gain (loss) position of the fixed income investment portfolio.          

currency risk, relating to the variability in currency exchange rates for foreign denominated investments. This risk relates to potential decreases
in estimated fair value and income resulting from a strengthening or weakening in currency exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar. In general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar will adversely affect the estimated fair value
of our foreign denominated investments; and      
         120

Table of Contents  

real estate risk, relating to commercial and agricultural real estate, and stemming from factors, which include, but are not limited to, market
conditions including the demand and supply of leasable commercial space, creditworthiness of tenants and partners, capital markets volatility and the inherent interest rate movement.      
  We manage investment risk through in-house fundamental credit analysis of the underlying obligors, issuers, transaction
structures and real estate properties. We also manage credit risk, market valuation risk and liquidity risk through industry and issuer diversification and asset allocation. For commercial real estate and agricultural assets, we manage credit risk
and market valuation risk through geographic, property type and product type diversification and asset allocation. We manage interest rate risk as part of our asset and liability management strategies. These strategies include maintaining an
investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile through product design, such as the use of market value adjustment
features and surrender charges. We also manage interest rate risk through proactive monitoring and management of certain non-guaranteed elements of its products, such as the resetting of credited interest and dividend rates for policies that permit
such adjustments. In addition to hedging with foreign currency derivatives, we manage currency risk by matching much of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing our
risk to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. We also use certain derivatives in the management of credit, interest rate, and equity market risks.      We use purchased credit default swaps to mitigate credit risk in our investment portfolio. Generally, we purchase credit protection by entering into credit default swaps referencing the issuers of
specific assets we own. In certain cases, basis risk exists between these credit default swaps and the specific assets we own. For example, we may purchase credit protection on a macro basis to reduce exposure to specific industries or other
portfolio concentrations. In such instances, the referenced entities and obligations under the credit default swaps may not be identical to the individual obligors or securities in our investment portfolio. In addition, our purchased credit default
swaps may have shorter tenors than the underlying investments they are hedging. However, we dynamically hedge this risk through the rebalancing and rollover of its credit default swaps at their most liquid tenors. We believe that our purchased
credit default swaps serve as effective legal and economic hedges of our credit exposure.      We generally enter
into market standard purchased and written credit default swap contracts. Payout under such contracts is triggered by certain credit events experienced by the referenced entities. For credit default swaps covering North American corporate issuers,
credit events typically include bankruptcy and failure to pay on borrowed money. For European corporate issuers, credit events typically also include involuntary restructuring. With respect to credit default contracts on Western European sovereign
debt, credit events typically include failure to pay debt obligations, repudiation, moratorium, or involuntary restructuring. In each case, payout on a credit default swap is triggered only after the Credit Derivatives Determinations Committee of
the International Swaps and Derivatives Association deems that a credit event has occurred.        Current Environment
       The global economy and markets continue to be affected by significant stress and volatility, which
has adversely affected the financial services sector in particular and global capital markets. As a company with significant operations in the U.S., we are affected by the monetary policy of the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve Board has taken a
number of policy actions in recent years to spur economic activity, by keeping interest rates low and, more recently, through its asset purchase programs. See    Industry Trends   Impact of Sustained Low Interest Rate
Environment  for information on actions taken by the Federal Reserve Board and central banks around the world to support the economic recovery. See    Industry Trends   Financial and Economic Environment  for information on
actions taken by Japan s central government and the Bank of Japan to end deflation and achieve sustainable economic growth in Japan. The Federal Reserve may take further actions to influence interest rates in the future, which may have an
impact on the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments and may adversely impact the level of product sales.   
         121

Table of Contents  

    Europe s Perimeter Region .    During 2012,
concerns about the economic conditions, capital markets and the solvency of certain European Union member states, including Europe s perimeter region and of financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to their
sovereign debt continued to create market volatility. This market volatility will likely continue to affect the performance of various asset classes in 2013, and perhaps longer, until there is an ultimate resolution of these European Union sovereign
debt-related concerns. As a result of concerns about the ability of Europe s perimeter region, to service its sovereign debt, certain countries have experienced credit ratings downgrades. Despite official financial support programs for the most
stressed governments in Europe s perimeter region, including the March 2012 exchange of  177 billion of Greece domestic law sovereign debt with private sector holders in exchange for a package of four new securities issued by Greece and
the public sector supported European Financial Stability Facility, concerns about sovereign debt sustainability has expanded to other European Union member states. As a result, in late 2011 and early 2012, several other European Union member states
have experienced credit ratings downgrades or have had their credit ratings outlook changed to negative. As summarized below, at December 31, 2012 and 2011, we did not have significant exposure to the sovereign debt of Europe s perimeter
region. Accordingly, we do not expect such investments to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. The par value, amortized cost and estimated fair value of holdings in sovereign debt of Europe s
perimeter region were $234 million, $62 million and $73 million at December 31, 2012, respectively, and $874 million, $254 million and $264 million at December 31, 2011, respectively. We recorded non-cash
impairment charges of $0 and $405 million on our holdings of Greece s sovereign debt during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.       European Region Investments.  Outside of Europe s perimeter region, our holdings of sovereign debt, corporate debt and perpetual hybrid securities in certain European Union member states and
other countries in the region that are not members of the European Union (collectively, the  European Region ) were concentrated in the U.K., Germany, France, the Netherlands, Poland, Norway and Sweden, the sovereign debt of which
continues to maintain the highest credit ratings from all major rating agencies. In the European Region, we have proactively mitigated risk in both direct and indirect exposures by investing in a diversified portfolio of high quality investments
with a focus on the higher-rated countries, reducing our holdings through sales of financial services securities during 2010 and 2011 and sales of Europe s perimeter region sovereign debt in 2011, and by purchasing certain single name credit
default protection in 2010 and 2011. Our sales of financial services securities were focused on institutions with exposure to Europe s perimeter region, lower preference capital structure instruments, and larger positions. Sovereign debt issued
by countries outside of Europe s perimeter region comprised $8.9 billion, or 99% of European Region sovereign fixed maturity securities, at estimated fair value at December 31, 2012. The European Region corporate securities (fixed maturity
and perpetual hybrid securities classified as non-redeemable preferred stock) are invested in a diversified portfolio of primarily non-financial services securities, which comprised $25.0 billion, or 75% of European Region total corporate
securities, at estimated fair value at December 31, 2012. Of these European Region sovereign fixed maturity and corporate securities, 91% were investment grade and, for the 9% that were below investment grade, the majority were non-financial
services corporate securities at December 31, 2012. European Region financial services corporate securities at estimated fair value were $8.2 billion, including $6.2 billion within the banking sector, with 93% invested in investment grade rated
corporate securities, at December 31, 2012.       Select European Countries   Investment
Exposures.     Due to the current level of economic, fiscal and political strain in Europe s perimeter region and Cyprus, we continually monitor and adjust our level of investment exposure in these countries. We manage
direct and indirect investment exposure in these countries through fundamental credit analysis. The following table presents a summary of investments by invested asset class and     
         122

Table of Contents  

related purchased credit default protection across Europe s perimeter region, by country, and Cyprus. We have not written any credit default swaps with an underlying risk related to any
of these countries. The information below is presented on a country of risk basis (e.g. the country where the issuer primarily conducts business).         

(1)  
    Presented at estimated fair value. The par value and amortized cost of the fixed maturity securities were $2.1 billion and $1.8 billion,
respectively, at December 31, 2012.          

(2)  
    Comprised of equity securities, FVO general account securities, real estate and real estate joint ventures, other limited partnership interests,
cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, and other invested assets at carrying value. See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for an explanation of the carrying value for these invested asset classes. Excludes FVO
contractholder-directed unit-linked investments of $730 million, which support unit-linked variable annuity type liabilities and do not qualify for separate account summary total assets and liabilities. The contractholder, and not the Company,
directs the investment of these funds. The related variable annuity type liability is satisfied from the contractholder s account balance and not from our general account investments.      

(3)  
    For Greece, the Company had $1 million of commitments to fund partnership investments at December 31, 2012.      

(4)  
    Purchased credit default protection is stated at the estimated fair value of the swap. For Italy, the purchased credit default protection relates to
financial services corporate securities and these swaps had a notional amount of $80 million and an estimated fair value of $3 million at December 31, 2012. The counterparties to these swaps are financial institutions with Standard  
Poor s Ratings Services ( S P ) credit ratings ranging from A+ to A as of December 31, 2012.          Rating Actions   U.S. Treasury Securities.  As a result of a special Congressional committee failing to agree on certain deficit-reduction measures in August 2011, S P downgraded the AAA
rating on U.S. Treasury securities to AA+. We continue to closely evaluate the implications on our investment portfolio of further rating agency downgrades of U.S. Treasury securities and believe our investment portfolio is well positioned.
      Current Environment - Summary.  All of these factors have had and could continue to have an adverse
effect on the financial results of companies in the financial services industry, including MetLife. Such global economic conditions, as well as the global financial markets, continue to impact our net investment income, net investment gains (losses)
and net derivative gains (losses), level of unrealized gains and (losses) within the various asset   
         123

Table of Contents  

classes within our investment portfolio and our allocation to lower yielding cash equivalents and short-term investments. See    Industry Trends  and  Risk Factors  
Economic Environment and Capital Markets-Related Risks   If Difficult Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy Generally Persist, They May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations.    
    Investment Portfolio Results        The following yield table presents the yield and investment income (loss) for our investment portfolio for the periods indicated. As described in the footnotes below, this table reflects certain
differences from the presentation of net investment income presented in the GAAP consolidated statements of operations. This yield table presentation is consistent with how we measure our investment performance for management purposes, and we
believe it enhances understanding of our investment portfolio results.       

(1)  
    Yields are calculated as investment income as a percent of average quarterly asset carrying values. Investment income excludes recognized gains and
losses and reflects GAAP adjustments presented in footnote (5) below. Asset carrying values exclude unrealized gains (losses), collateral received in connection with our securities lending program, freestanding derivative assets, collateral
received from derivative counterparties, the effects of consolidating under GAAP certain variable interest entities ( VIEs ) that are treated as consolidated securitization entities ( CSEs ), contractholder-directed unit-linked
investments and securitized reverse residential mortgage loans. A yield is not presented for other invested assets, as it is not considered a meaningful measure of performance for this asset class.      

(3)  
    Investment income from fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans includes prepayment fees.      

(4)  
    Yield calculations include the net investment income and ending carrying values of the Divested Businesses. The net investment income adjustment for
the Divested Businesses for the year ended December 31, 2012 of $150 million excludes $177 million of securitized reverse residential mortgage loans that were included in the Divested Businesses adjustment of $327 million presented below. For
further information on Divested Businesses, see Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      
         124

Table of Contents  

(5)  
    Net investment income presented in the yield table varies from the most directly comparable measure presented in the GAAP consolidated statements of
operations due to certain reclassifications and excludes the effects of consolidating under GAAP certain VIEs that are treated as CSEs and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments. Such reclassifications are presented in the table below.
         
    See    Results of Operations   Year Ended December 31, 2012
Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2011  and   Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2010,  for analyses of the year over year changes in net investment income.   
    Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities AFS     
  Fixed maturity securities AFS, which consisted principally of publicly traded and privately placed fixed maturity
securities and redeemable preferred stock, were $374.3 billion and $350.3 billion at estimated fair value, or 70% and 67% of total cash and invested assets, at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Publicly-traded fixed maturity
securities represented $323.8 billion and $303.6 billion of total fixed maturity securities at estimated fair value at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, or 87% of total fixed maturity securities, at both December 31, 2012
and 2011. Privately placed fixed maturity securities represented $50.5 billion and $46.7 billion, at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, or 13% of total fixed maturity securities at estimated fair value, at both
December 31, 2012 and 2011.      Equity securities AFS, which consisted principally of publicly traded and
privately held common and non-redeemable preferred stocks, including certain perpetual hybrid securities and mutual fund interests, were $2.9 billion and $3.0 billion at estimated fair value, or 0.5% and 0.6% of total cash and invested
assets, at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Publicly-traded equity securities represented $1.8 billion and $1.7 billion at estimated fair value, or 62% and 57% of total equity securities, at December 31, 2012 and 2011,
respectively. Privately-held equity securities represented $1.1 billion and $1.3 billion at estimated fair value, or 38% and 43% of total equity securities, at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   
  Included within fixed maturity and equity securities were $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion of perpetual securities, at
estimated fair value, at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Upon acquisition, we classify perpetual securities that have attributes of both debt and equity as fixed maturity securities if the securities have an interest rate step-up
feature which, when combined with other qualitative factors, indicates that the securities have more debt-like characteristics; while those with more equity-like characteristics are classified as equity securities. Many of such securities, commonly
referred to as  perpetual hybrid securities  have been issued by non-U.S. financial institutions that are accorded the highest two capital treatment categories by their respective regulatory bodies (i.e. core capital, or  Tier 1
capital  and perpetual deferrable securities, or  Upper Tier 2 capital ).   
         125

Table of Contents  

   Included within fixed maturity securities were $1.6 billion and $1.9 billion
of redeemable preferred stock at estimated fair value at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. These securities, which have stated maturity dates and cumulative interest deferral features, are commonly referred to as  capital
securities,  and are primarily issued by U.S. financial institutions.       Valuation of
Securities.  We are responsible for the determination of estimated fair value of our investments. We determine the estimated fair value of publicly-traded securities after considering one of three primary sources of information: quoted
market prices in active markets, independent pricing services, or independent broker quotations; whereas for privately placed securities, estimated fair value is determined after considering one of three primary sources of information: market
standard internal matrix pricing, market standard internal discounted cash flow techniques, or independent pricing services after we determine their use of available observable market data. For publicly-traded securities, the number of quotations
obtained varies by instrument and depends on the liquidity of the particular instrument. Generally, we obtain prices from multiple pricing services to cover all asset classes and obtain multiple prices for certain securities, but ultimately utilize
the price with the highest placement in the fair value hierarchy. Independent pricing services that value these instruments use market standard valuation methodologies based on data about market transactions and inputs from multiple pricing sources
that are market observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the types of market standard valuation methodologies
utilized and key assumptions and observable inputs used in applying these standard valuation methodologies. When a price is not available in the active market or through an independent pricing service, management will value the security primarily
using market standard internal matrix pricing or discounted cash flow techniques, and non-binding quotations from independent brokers who are knowledgeable about these securities. Independent non-binding broker quotations utilize inputs that may be
difficult to corroborate with observable market data. As shown in the following section, less than 1% of our fixed maturity securities were valued using non-binding quotations from independent brokers at December 31, 2012.   
  Senior management, independent of the trading and investing functions, is responsible for the oversight of control
systems and valuation policies, including reviewing and approving new transaction types and markets, for ensuring that observable market prices and market-based parameters are used for valuation, wherever possible, and for determining that
judgmental valuation adjustments, when applied, are based upon established policies and are applied consistently over time. We review our valuation methodologies on an ongoing basis and revise when necessary based on changing market conditions. We
gain assurance on the overall reasonableness and consistent application of input assumptions, valuation methodologies and compliance with accounting standards for fair value determination through our controls designed to ensure that the financial
assets and financial liabilities are appropriately valued and represent an exit price. We utilize several controls, including certain monthly controls, which include, but are not limited to, analysis of portfolio returns to corresponding benchmark
returns, comparing a sample of executed prices of securities sold to the fair value estimates, comparing fair value estimates to management s knowledge of the current market, reviewing the bid/ask spreads to assess activity, comparing prices
from multiple pricing sources, when available, reviewing independent auditor reports regarding the controls over valuation of securities employed by independent pricing services, and ongoing due diligence to confirm that independent pricing services
use market-based parameters for valuation. We determine the observability of inputs used in estimated fair values received from independent pricing services or brokers by assessing whether these inputs can be corroborated by observable market data.
     We also apply a formal process to challenge any prices received from independent pricing services that are
not considered representative of estimated fair value. If we conclude that prices received from independent pricing services are not reflective of market activity or representative of estimated fair value, we will seek independent non-binding broker
quotes or use an internally developed valuation to override these prices. Our internally developed valuations of current estimated fair value, which reflect our estimates of liquidity and nonperformance risks, compared with pricing received from the
independent pricing services, did not produce material differences for the vast majority of our fixed maturity securities portfolio. This is, in part, because our internal estimates of liquidity and nonperformance risks are generally based on
available market evidence and estimates used by other   
         126

Table of Contents  

market participants. In the absence of such market-based evidence, management s best estimate is used. As a result, we generally use the price provided by the independent pricing service
under our normal pricing protocol.      We have reviewed the significance and observability of inputs used in the
valuation methodologies to determine the appropriate fair value hierarchy level for each of its securities. Based on the results of this review and investment class analyses, each instrument is categorized as Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the lowest
level significant input to its valuation. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the valuation techniques and inputs by level within the three level fair value hierarchy by major classes of
invested assets.       Fair Value of Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities   AFS.  Fixed maturity
and equity securities AFS measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their corresponding fair value pricing sources are as follows:       
    See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the fixed
maturity securities and equity securities AFS fair value hierarchy.      The composition of fair value pricing
sources for and significant changes in Level 3 securities at December 31, 2012 are as follows:       

The majority of the Level 3 fixed maturity and equity securities AFS (92%) were concentrated in five sectors: U.S. and foreign
corporate securities, asset-backed securities ( ABS ), residential mortgage-backed securities ( RMBS ), and foreign government securities.      

Level 3 fixed maturity securities are priced principally through market standard valuation methodologies, independent pricing services and, to
a much lesser extent, independent non-binding broker quotations using inputs that are not market observable or cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 fixed maturity securities consist of less
liquid securities with very limited trading activity or where less price transparency exists around the inputs to the valuation methodologies. Level 3 fixed maturity securities include: alternative residential mortgage loan ( Alt-A ) and
sub-prime RMBS; certain below investment grade private securities and less liquid investment grade corporate securities (included in U.S. and foreign corporate securities); less liquid ABS and foreign government securities.

During the year ended December 31, 2012, Level 3 fixed maturity securities increased by $4.7 billion, or 26%. The increase was driven by net
purchases in excess of sales and an increase in estimated fair value      
         127

Table of Contents  

recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) ( OCI ). The net purchases in excess of sales of fixed maturity securities was concentrated in ABS and foreign corporate securities, and
the increase in estimated fair value recognized in OCI for fixed maturity securities was concentrated in U.S. and foreign corporate securities and RMBS.      
  See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a rollforward of the fair value measurements
for fixed maturity securities and equity securities AFS measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs. Total gains and losses in earnings and OCI are calculated assuming transfers
into or out of Level 3 occurred at the beginning of the period. Items transferred into and out of Level 3 during the same period are excluded from the rollforward. Total gains (losses) for fixed maturity securities included in OCI subsequent to
their transfer into Level 3 was $9 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. There were no gains (losses) included in earnings for fixed maturity securities subsequent to their transfer into Level 3 for the year ended
December 31, 2012.      An analysis of transfers into and/or out of Level 3 for the year ended
December 31, 2012 is presented in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      See
   Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates   Estimated Fair Value of Investments  for further information on the estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported above. See Note 10 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about the valuation techniques and inputs by level by major classes of invested assets that affect the amounts reported above.   
   Fixed Maturity Securities AFS.  See Notes 1 and 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
information about fixed maturity securities AFS.       Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality  
Ratings.  The Securities Valuation Office of the NAIC evaluates the fixed maturity security investments of insurers for regulatory reporting and capital assessment purposes and assigns securities to one of six credit quality categories
called  NAIC designations.  If no rating is available from the NAIC, then as permitted by the NAIC, an internally developed rating is used. The NAIC ratings are generally similar to the credit quality designations of the Nationally
Recognized Statistical Ratings Organizations ( NRSRO ) for marketable fixed maturity securities, called  rating agency designations,  except for certain structured securities as described below. Rating agency designations are
based on availability of applicable ratings from rating agencies on the NAIC credit rating provider list, including Moody s, S P, Fitch Ratings ( Fitch ), Dominion Bond Rating Service, A.M. Best Company, Kroll Bond Rating Agency
and Realpoint, LLC. If no rating is available from a rating agency, then an internally developed rating is used.      The NAIC has adopted revised rating methodologies for certain structured securities comprised of non-agency RMBS, commercial mortgage-backed securities ( CMBS ) and ABS. The NAIC s
objective with the revised rating methodologies for these structured securities was to increase the accuracy in assessing expected losses, and to use the improved assessment to determine a more appropriate capital requirement for such structured
securities. The revised methodologies reduce regulatory reliance on rating agencies and allow for greater regulatory input into the assumptions used to estimate expected losses from structured securities. We apply the revised NAIC rating
methodologies to structured securities held by MetLife, Inc. s insurance subsidiaries that maintain the NAIC statutory basis of accounting. The NAIC s present methodology is to evaluate structured securities held by insurers using the
revised NAIC rating methodologies on an annual basis. If such insurance subsidiaries of our acquired structured securities that have not been previously evaluated by the NAIC, but are expected to be evaluated by the NAIC in the upcoming annual
review, an internally developed rating is used until a final rating becomes available.   
         128

Table of Contents  

   The following table presents total fixed maturity securities by NRSRO
designation and the equivalent designations of the NAIC, except for certain structured securities, which are presented as described above, as well as the percentage, based on estimated fair value that each designation is comprised of at:   

129

Table of Contents  

   The following tables present total fixed maturity securities, based on
estimated fair value, by sector classification and by NRSRO designation and the equivalent designations of the NAIC, except for certain structured securities, which are presented as described above:   

130

Table of Contents  

    U.S. and Foreign Corporate Fixed Maturity Securities.   We
maintain a diversified portfolio of corporate fixed maturity securities across industries and issuers. This portfolio does not have an exposure to any single issuer in excess of 1% of total investments and the top ten holdings comprise 2% of total
investments at both December 31, 2012 and 2011. The tables below present information for U.S. and foreign corporate securities at:       

(1)  
    Includes both U.S. dollar and foreign denominated securities.      
   Structured Securities.   We held $72.6 billion and $74.7 billion of structured securities, at estimated
fair value, at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, as presented in the RMBS, CMBS and ABS sections below.       RMBS .  The table below presents information about RMBS at:       
    Collateralized mortgage obligations are a type of mortgage-backed security structured by
dividing the cash flows of mortgages into separate pools or tranches of risk that create multiple classes of bonds with varying maturities and priority of payments. Pass-through mortgage-backed securities are a type of asset-backed security that are
secured by a mortgage or collection of mortgages. The monthly mortgage payments from homeowners   
         131

Table of Contents  

pass from the originating bank through an intermediary, such as a government agency or investment bank, which collects the payments and, for a fee, remits or passes these payments through to the
holders of the pass-through securities.      The majority of RMBS we hold are Agency RMBS. The majority of our
RMBS holdings were rated Aaa/AAA by Moody s, S P or Fitch; and were rated NAIC 1 by the NAIC at December 31, 2012 and 2011. Agency RMBS were guaranteed or otherwise supported by Federal National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corporation or GNMA. Non-agency RMBS include prime, Alt-A and sub-prime RMBS. Prime residential mortgage lending includes the origination of residential mortgage loans to the most creditworthy borrowers with high quality credit profiles.
Alt-A is a classification of mortgage loans where the risk profile of the borrower falls between prime and sub-prime. Sub-prime mortgage lending is the origination of residential mortgage loans to borrowers with weak credit profiles. Included within
prime and Alt-A RMBS are resecuritization of real estate mortgage investment conduit ( Re-REMIC ) securities. Re-REMIC RMBS involve the pooling of previous issues of prime and Alt-A RMBS and restructuring the combined pools to create new
senior and subordinated securities. The credit enhancement on the senior tranches is improved through the resecuritization.      At December 31, 2012 and 2011, our Alt-A securities portfolio had no exposure to option adjustable rate mortgages ( ARMs ) and a minimal exposure to hybrid ARMs. Our Alt-A securities
portfolio was comprised primarily of fixed rate mortgages (94% and 93% at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively) which have performed better than both option ARMs and hybrid ARMs in the overall Alt-A market.   
  Historically, we have managed our exposure to sub-prime RMBS holdings by reducing our overall exposure, stress testing
the portfolio with severe loss assumptions and closely monitoring the performance of the portfolio. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, approximately 53% and 79%, respectively, of our sub-prime RMBS holdings were in a vintage year of 2005 or prior.
These older vintage years benefit from better underwriting, improved credit enhancement levels and higher residential property price appreciation. In 2012, we increased our exposure to sub-prime RMBS by purchasing sub-prime RMBS at significant
discounts to the expected principal recovery value of these securities. The 2012 sub-prime RMBS purchases are performing within our expectations and were in an unrealized gain position of $59 million at December 31, 2012.   
   CMBS.  The following tables present our CMBS holdings by rating agency designation and by vintage year at:

132

Table of Contents  

The tables above reflect rating agency designations assigned by nationally recognized
rating agencies including Moody s, S P, Fitch and Realpoint, LLC. CMBS rated NAIC 1 were 98.5% and 96.5% of total CMBS at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   
   ABS.  Our ABS are diversified both by collateral type and by issuer. The following table presents information
about our ABS holdings at:       
     Evaluation of AFS Securities for OTTI and Evaluating Temporarily Impaired AFS
Securities.  See Notes 1 and 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the evaluation of fixed maturity securities and equity securities AFS for OTTI and evaluation of temporarily impaired AFS securities.
       OTTI Losses on Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities AFS Recognized in Earnings     
  See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about OTTI losses and gross gains
and gross losses on AFS securities sold.       Overview of Fixed Maturity and Equity Security OTTI Losses
Recognized in Earnings.  Impairments of fixed maturity and equity securities were $351 million, $1.0 billion and $484 million for the years ended December 31,   
         133

Table of Contents  

2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Impairments of fixed maturity securities were $317 million, $955 million and $470 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and
2010, respectively. Impairments of equity securities were $34 million, $60 million and $14 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
  Credit-related impairments of fixed maturity securities were $223 million, $645 million and $423 million
for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.      Explanations of changes in fixed
maturity and equity securities impairments are as follows:       

Year Ended December 31, 2012 compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2011    Overall OTTI losses recognized in earnings on
fixed maturity and equity securities were $351 million for the current year as compared to $1.0 billion in the prior year. The most significant decrease in the current period, as compared to the prior period, was in foreign government securities
primarily attributable to prior year impairments on Greece sovereign debt securities of $405 million as a result of the reduction in the expected recoverable amount (see    Investments   Current Environment ) and intent-to-sell
fixed maturity security OTTI on other sovereign debt securities due to the repositioning of the acquired ALICO portfolio into longer duration and higher yielding investments, resulting in total sovereign debt securities impairments of $486 million
recognized in 2011. In addition, intent-to-sell OTTI related to the Divested Businesses of $154 million were recognized in 2011 primarily concentrated in the RMBS sector, while utility industry impairments within U.S. and foreign corporate
securities increased $51 million in the current year.          

Year Ended December 31, 2011 compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2010    Overall OTTI losses recognized in earnings on
fixed maturity and equity securities were $1.0 billion for the current year as compared to $484 million in the prior year. The increase in OTTI losses on fixed maturity and equity securities primarily reflects impairments on Greece
sovereign debt securities, repositioning of the acquired ALICO portfolio, and impairments related to Divested Businesses, as discussed above. These increased impairments were partially offset by decreased impairments in the CMBS, ABS and corporate
sectors, reflecting improving economic fundamentals.          Future Impairments.  Future
OTTIs will depend primarily on economic fundamentals, issuer performance (including changes in the present value of future cash flows expected to be collected), changes in credit ratings, changes in collateral valuation, changes in interest rates
and changes in credit spreads. If economic fundamentals or certain of the above factors deteriorate, additional OTTIs may be incurred in upcoming periods.        FVO and Trading Securities        FVO and trading
securities are primarily comprised of securities for which the FVO has been elected ( FVO Securities ). FVO Securities include certain fixed maturity and equity securities held for investment by the general account to support asset and
liability matching strategies for certain insurance products. FVO Securities are primarily comprised of contractholder-directed investments supporting unit-linked variable annuity type liabilities which do not qualify for presentation as separate
account summary total assets and liabilities. These investments are primarily mutual funds and, to a lesser extent, fixed maturity and equity securities, short-term investments and cash and cash equivalents. The investment returns on these
investments inure to contractholders and are offset by a corresponding change in PABs through interest credited to policyholder account balances. FVO Securities also include securities held by CSEs (former qualifying special purpose entities). We
have a trading securities portfolio, principally invested in fixed maturity securities, to support investment strategies that involve the active and frequent purchase and sale of actively traded securities and the execution of short sale agreements.
FVO and trading securities were $16.3 billion and $18.3 billion at estimated fair value, or 3.1% and 3.5% of total cash and invested assets, at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for the FVO and trading securities fair value hierarchy and a rollforward of the fair value measurements for FVO and trading securities measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable
(Level 3) inputs.   
         134

Table of Contents  

     Securities Lending     
  We participate in a securities lending program whereby blocks of securities, which are included in fixed maturity
securities, equity securities and short-term investments, are loaned to third parties, primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks. We obtain collateral, usually cash, in an amount generally equal to 102% of the estimated fair value of the
securities loaned, which is obtained at the inception of a loan and maintained at a level greater than or equal to 100% for the duration of the loan. Securities loaned under such transactions may be sold or repledged by the transferee. We are liable
to return to our counterparties the cash collateral under our control. These transactions are treated as financing arrangements and the associated cash collateral liability is recorded at the amount of the cash received.   
  See    Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity and Capital Uses   Securities
Lending  and Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for financial information regarding our securities lending program.        Mortgage Loans        Our mortgage loans are principally
collateralized by commercial real estate, agricultural real estate and residential properties. The carrying value of mortgage loans was $57.0 billion and $72.1 billion, or 10.7% and 13.8% of total cash and invested assets, at
December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table that presents our mortgage loans held-for-investment of $56.6 billion and $56.9 billion by portfolio segment
at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, as well as the components of the mortgage loans held-for-sale of $414 million and $15.2 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We originated $9.6 billion and $11.1
billion of commercial mortgage loans during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We originated $3.0 billion and $2.8 billion of agricultural mortgage loans during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The
information presented below excludes the effects of consolidating certain VIEs that are treated as CSEs and securitized reverse residential mortgage loans. Such amounts are presented in the aforementioned table.   
  We diversify our mortgage loan portfolio by both geographic region and property type to reduce the risk of concentration.
Of our commercial and agricultural mortgage loans, 89% are collateralized by properties located in the U.S., with the remaining 11% collateralized by properties located outside the U.S., calculated as a percent of the total mortgage loans
held-for-investment (excluding commercial mortgage loans held by CSEs) at December 31, 2012. The carrying value of our commercial and agricultural mortgage loans located in California, New York and Texas were 19%, 11% and 7%, respectively, of
total mortgage loans held for investment (excluding commercial mortgage loans held by CSEs) at December 31, 2012. Additionally, we manage risk when originating commercial and agricultural mortgage loans by generally lending only up to 75% of
the estimated fair value of the underlying real estate collateral.   
         135

Table of Contents  

    Commercial Mortgage Loans by Geographic Region and Property
Type.  Commercial mortgage loans are the largest component of the mortgage loan invested asset class, as it represented approximately 75% of total mortgage loans held-for-investment (excluding the effects of consolidating certain VIEs that
are treated as CSEs) at both December 31, 2012 and 2011. The tables below present the diversification across geographic regions and property types of commercial mortgage loans held-for-investment:   
   
     Mortgage Loan Credit Quality   Restructured, Potentially Delinquent, Delinquent
or Under Foreclosure.   We monitor our mortgage loan investments on an ongoing basis, including reviewing loans that are restructured, potentially delinquent, and delinquent or under foreclosure. These loan classifications are
consistent with those used in industry practice.      We define restructured mortgage loans as loans in which we,
for economic or legal reasons related to the debtor s financial difficulties, grant a concession to the debtor that we would not otherwise consider. We define potentially delinquent loans as loans that, in management s opinion, have a high
probability of becoming delinquent in the near term. We define delinquent mortgage loans consistent with industry practice, when interest and principal payments are past due as follows: commercial and residential   60 days or more and
agricultural   90 days or more. We define mortgage loans under foreclosure as loans in which foreclosure proceedings have formally commenced.   
         136

Table of Contents  

   The following table presents the recorded investment and valuation allowance
for all mortgage loans held-for-investment distributed by the above stated loan classifications:       

(1)  
    As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, restructured commercial mortgage loans were comprised of nine and 10 restructured loans, respectively, all of
which were performing.          

(2)  
    As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, restructured agricultural mortgage loans were comprised of 15 and 11 restructured loans, respectively, all of
which were performing. There were no restructured agricultural mortgage loans classified as delinquent or under foreclosure as of December 31, 2012. Additionally, as of December 31, 2011, delinquent or under foreclosure agricultural
mortgage loans included four restructured loans with a recorded investment of $13 million, which were not performing.          
 
  See also Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for tables that present, by portfolio segment,
mortgage loans by credit quality indicator, impaired mortgage loans, past due and nonaccrual mortgage loans, as well as loans modified through troubled debt restructurings.   
   Mortgage Loan Credit Quality   Monitoring Process   Commercial and Agricultural Mortgage
Loans.   We review all commercial mortgage loans on an ongoing basis. These reviews may include an analysis of the property financial statements and rent roll, lease rollover analysis, property inspections, market analysis, estimated
valuations of the underlying collateral, loan-to-value ratios, debt service coverage ratios, and tenant creditworthiness. The monitoring process focuses on higher risk loans, which include those that are classified as restructured, potentially
delinquent, delinquent or in foreclosure, as well as loans with higher loan-to-value ratios and lower debt service coverage ratios. The monitoring process for agricultural mortgage loans is generally similar, with a focus on higher risk loans, such
as loans with higher loan-to-value ratios, including reviews on a geographic and property type basis.   
  Loan-to-value ratios and debt service coverage ratios are common measures in the assessment of the quality of commercial
mortgage loans. Loan-to-value ratios are a common measure in the assessment of the quality of   
         137

Table of Contents  

agricultural mortgage loans. Loan-to-value ratios compare the amount of the loan to the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral. A loan-to-value ratio greater than 100% indicates that
the loan amount is greater than the collateral value. A loan-to-value ratio of less than 100% indicates an excess of collateral value over the loan amount. Generally, the higher the loan-to-value ratio, the higher the risk of experiencing a credit
loss. The debt service coverage ratio compares a property s net operating income to amounts needed to service the principal and interest due under the loan. Generally, the lower the debt service coverage ratio, the higher the risk of
experiencing a credit loss. For our commercial mortgage loans, our average loan-to-value ratio was 57% and 61% at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and our average debt service coverage ratio was 2.2x at December 31, 2012, as
compared to 2.1x at December 31, 2011. The commercial mortgage loan debt service coverage ratio and loan-to-value ratio, as well as the values utilized in calculating these ratios, are updated annually, on a rolling basis, with a portion of the
commercial mortgage loan portfolio updated each quarter. For our agricultural mortgage loans, our average loan-to-value ratio was 46% and 48% at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The values utilized in calculating the agricultural
mortgage loan loan-to-value ratio are developed in connection with the ongoing review of the agricultural loan portfolio and are routinely updated.       Mortgage Loan Valuation Allowances.   Our valuation allowances are established both on a loan specific basis for those loans considered impaired where a property specific or market
specific risk has been identified that could likely result in a future loss, as well as for pools of loans with similar risk characteristics where a property specific or market specific risk has not been identified, but for which we expect to incur
a loss. Accordingly, a valuation allowance is provided to absorb these estimated probable credit losses.      The
determination of the amount of, and additions or decreases to, valuation allowances is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with its loan portfolios. Such evaluations and assessments are based upon
several factors, including our experience for loan losses, defaults and loss severity, and loss expectations for loans with similar risk characteristics. These evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes
available. We update our evaluations regularly, which can cause the valuation allowances to increase or decrease over time as such evaluations are revised. Negative credit migration, including an actual or expected increase in the level of problem
loans, will result in an increase in the valuation allowance. Positive credit migration, including an actual or expected decrease in the level of problem loans, will result in a decrease in the valuation allowance.   
  See Notes 1, 8 and 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about how valuation
allowances are established and monitored, activity in and balances of the valuation allowance, and the estimated fair value of impaired mortgage loans and related impairments included within net investment gains (losses) as of and for the years
ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.        Real Estate and Real Estate Joint Ventures     
  We diversify our real estate investments by both geographic region and property type to reduce risk of concentration. Of
our real estate investments, 83% were located in the United States, with the remaining 17% located outside the United States, at December 31, 2012. The three locations with the largest real estate investments were California, Japan and Florida
at 20%, 14%, and 11%, respectively, at December 31, 2012.   
         138

Table of Contents  

   Real estate investments by type consisted of the following:   
   
    We classify within traditional real estate our investment in income-producing real
estate, which is comprised primarily of wholly-owned real estate and, to a much lesser extent, joint ventures with interests in single property income-producing real estate. The estimated fair value of the traditional real estate investment
portfolio was $10.7 billion and $7.6 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We classify within real estate joint ventures and funds, our investments in joint ventures with interests in multi-property projects with varying
strategies ranging from the development of properties to the operation of income-producing properties, as well as our investments in real estate private equity funds. From time to time, we transfer investments from these joint ventures to
traditional real estate, if we retain an interest in the joint venture after a completed property commences operations and we intend to retain an interest in the property.   
  Real estate and real estate joint venture investments by property type are categorized by sector as follows:   
   
    We committed to acquire $2.9 billion and $1.1 billion of equity real estate during the
years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Impairments recognized on real estate and real estate joint ventures were $20 million, $2 million and $49 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
Depreciation expense on real estate investments was $168 million, $164 million and $151 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Real estate investments are net of accumulated depreciation of
$1.3 billion at both December 31, 2012 and 2011.   
         139

Table of Contents  

     Other Limited Partnership Interests     
  The carrying value of other limited partnership interests was $6.7 billion and $6.4 billion at December 31, 2012 and
2011 respectively, which included $1.4 billion and $1.1 billion of hedge funds, at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.        Other Invested Assets        The following table presents
the carrying value of our other invested assets by type:       
    Leveraged lease impairments were $203 million and $4 million for the years ended
December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.      See Notes 8 and 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for information regarding leveraged leases and the freestanding derivatives with positive estimated fair values, respectively. Tax credit partnerships are established for the purpose of investing in low-income housing and other social
causes, where the primary return on investment is in the form of income tax credits, and are accounted for under the equity method or under the effective yield method. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
activity rollforwards for MSRs. Funds withheld represent amounts contractually withheld by ceding companies in accordance with reinsurance agreements. Joint venture investments are accounted for under the equity method and represent our investment
in insurance underwriting joint ventures in Chile, China and Korea.      Our private placement unit originated
$8.1 billion and $8.8 billion of private investments, comprised primarily of certain privately placed fixed maturity securities, tax credit partnerships and lease investments, during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
  The carrying value of such private investments included within our consolidated balance sheets was $52.9 billion and $49.1 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   
    Short-term Investments and Cash Equivalents     
  The carrying value of short-term investments, which approximates estimated fair value, was $16.9 billion and $17.3
billion, or 3.2% and 3.3% of total cash and invested assets, at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The carrying value of cash equivalents, which approximates estimated fair value, was $6.1 billion and $5.0 billion, or 1.1% and 1.0% of
total cash and invested assets, at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   
         140

Table of Contents  

      Derivatives    
   Derivatives.   We are exposed to various risks relating to its ongoing business operations, including
interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate, credit, and equity market. We use a variety of strategies to manage these risks, including the use of derivatives. See Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for:   

A comprehensive description of the nature of our derivatives, including the strategies for which derivatives are used in managing various risks.

Information about the notional amount, estimated fair value, and primary underlying risk exposure of our derivatives by type of hedge designation,
excluding embedded derivatives held at December 31, 2012 and 2011.          
    See  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk   Management of Market Risk Exposures   Hedging Activities  for more information about our use of derivatives by major hedge program.   
   Fair Value Hierarchy.  See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for derivatives
measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their corresponding fair value hierarchy.      The
valuation of Level 3 derivatives involves the use of significant unobservable inputs and generally requires a higher degree of management judgment or estimation than the valuations of Level 1 and Level 2 derivatives. Although Level 3
inputs are unobservable, management believes they are consistent with what other market participants would use when pricing such instruments and are considered appropriate given the circumstances. The use of different inputs or methodologies could
have a material effect on the estimated fair value of Level 3 derivatives and could materially affect net income.      Derivatives categorized as Level 3 at December 31, 2012 include: interest rate swaps and interest rate forwards with maturities which extend beyond the observable portion of the yield curve;
cancellable foreign currency swaps with unobservable currency correlation inputs; foreign currency swaps and forwards with certain unobservable inputs, including unobservable portion of the yield curve; credit default swaps priced using unobservable
credit spreads, or that are priced through independent broker quotations; equity variance swaps with unobservable volatility inputs; and equity options with unobservable correlation inputs or that are priced through independent broker quotations. At
December 31, 2012 and 2011, less than 1% and 5%, respectively, of the net derivative estimated fair value was priced through independent broker quotations.   
  See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a rollforward of the fair value measurements
for derivatives measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs.      Level 3 derivatives had a ($571) million gain/(loss) recognized in net income (loss) for the year ended December 31, 2012. This loss primarily relates to certain purchased equity options that are
valued using models dependent on an unobservable market correlation input and equity variance swaps that are valued using observable equity volatility data plus an unobservable equity variance spread. The unobservable equity variance spread is
calculated from a comparison between broker offered variance swap volatility and observable plain vanilla equity option volatility. Other significant inputs, which are observable, include equity index levels, equity volatility and the swap yield
curve. We validate the reasonableness of these inputs by valuing the positions using internal models and comparing the results to broker quotations. The primary drivers of the loss during the year ended December 31, 2012 were significant
decreases in equity volatility, both historical and implied, and increases in equity index levels, which in total accounted for approximately 79% of the loss. Changes in the unobservable inputs accounted for approximately 21% of the loss.
  
         141

Table of Contents  

   See    Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates  
Derivatives  for further information on the estimates and assumptions that affect derivatives.       Credit
Risk.  See Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information about how we manage credit risk related to its freestanding derivatives, including the use of master netting agreements and collateral arrangements.
     Our policy is not to offset the fair value amounts recognized for derivatives executed with the same
counterparty under the same master netting agreement. This policy applies to the recognition of derivatives in the consolidated balance sheets, and does not affect our legal right of offset. The estimated fair value of our net derivative assets and
net derivative liabilities after the application of master netting agreements and collateral were as follows at December 31, 2012:       

December 31, 2012   

Net Derivative   Assets   

Net Derivative   Liabilities   

(In millions)   

Estimated Fair Value of OTC Derivatives After Application of Master Netting Agreements (1)   
      
  $  
  9,486  

$  
  918  

Cash collateral on OTC Derivatives   

(5,960  
  )   

(1  
  )    

Estimated Fair Value of OTC Derivatives After Application of Master Netting Agreements and Cash Collateral (1)   

3,526  

917  

Securities Collateral on OTC Derivatives (2)   

(3,687  
  )   

(875  
  )    

Estimated Fair Value of OTC Derivatives After Application of Master Netting Agreements and Cash and Securities Collateral
(1)   

(161  
  )   

42  

Estimated Fair Value of Exchange-Traded Derivatives   

151  

Total Estimated Fair Value of Derivatives After Application of Master Netting Agreements and Cash and Securities Collateral (1),
(3)   
      
  $  
  (161  
  )   
     
  $  
  193  

(1) Includes income accruals on derivatives.      (2) The collateral is held in
separate custodial accounts and is not recorded on our consolidated balance sheets.      (3) The negative asset value is due to
the customary delay in the timing of collateral movements.       Credit Derivatives.  See Note 9 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the estimated fair value and maximum amount at risk related to our written credit default swaps.   
   Embedded Derivatives.  See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information
about embedded derivatives measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their corresponding fair value hierarchy.      See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a rollforward of the fair value measurements for net embedded derivatives measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis
using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs.      See Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for information about the nonperformance risk adjustment included in the valuation of guaranteed minimum benefits accounted for as embedded derivatives.   
  See    Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates   Derivatives  for further information on the
estimates and assumptions that affect embedded derivatives.   
         142

Table of Contents  

      Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements    
    Credit and Committed Facilities        We maintain unsecured credit facilities and committed facilities with various financial institutions. See    Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity and Capital
Sources   Credit and Committed Facilities  for further descriptions of such arrangements.        Collateral for
Securities Lending, Repurchase Program and Derivatives        We participate in a securities lending program
in the normal course of business for the purpose of enhancing the total return on our investment portfolio. We have non-cash collateral for securities lending from counterparties on deposit from customers, which cannot be sold or repledged, and
which has not been recorded on our consolidated balance sheets. The amount of this collateral was $104 million and $371 million at estimated fair value at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. See    Investments   Securities
Lending  and  Securities Lending  in Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of our securities lending program and the classification of revenues and expenses and the nature of the secured financing
arrangement and associated liability.      We also participate in a third-party custodian administered repurchase
program for the purpose of enhancing the total return on our investment portfolio. We loan certain of our fixed maturity securities to financial institutions and, in exchange, non-cash collateral is put on deposit by the financial institutions on
our behalf with the third-party custodian. The estimated fair value of securities loaned in connection with these transactions was $729 million and $506 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Non-cash collateral on deposit with
the third-party custodian on our behalf was $785 million and $551 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, which cannot be sold or repledged, and which has not been recorded on our consolidated balance sheets.   
  We enter into derivatives to manage various risks relating to our ongoing business operations. We have non-cash
collateral from counterparties for derivatives, which can be sold or repledged subject to certain constraints, and which has not been recorded on our consolidated balance sheets. The amount of this collateral was $3.7 billion and $2.5 billion at
December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. See    Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity and Capital Uses   Pledged Collateral  and  Derivatives  in Note 9 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the earned income on and the gross notional amount, estimated fair value of assets and liabilities and primary underlying risk exposure of our derivatives.   
    Lease Commitments        As lessee, we have entered into various lease and sublease agreements for office space, information technology and other equipment. Our commitments under such lease agreements are included within the
contractual obligations table. See    Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Contractual Obligations  and Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
    Guarantees        See  Guarantees  in Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.        Other        Additionally, we have the following
commitments in the normal course of business for the purpose of enhancing the total return on our investment portfolio: commitments to fund partnership investments; mortgage loan commitments; and commitments to fund bank credit facilities, bridge
loans and private corporate bond investments.   
         143

Table of Contents  

   See  Net Investment Income  and  Net Investment Gains
(Losses)  in Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the investment income, investment expense, gains and losses from such investments. See also  Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities
Available-for-Sale,   Mortgage Loans,   Real Estate and Real Estate Joint Ventures,  and  Other Limited Partnerships  in Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on our
investments in fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans and partnership investments.      Other than the
commitments disclosed in Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, there are no other material obligations or liabilities arising from the commitments to fund partnership investments, mortgage loans, bank credit facilities,
bridge loans, and private corporate bond investments. For further information on commitments to fund partnership investments, mortgage loans, bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments. See    Liquidity and
Capital Resources   The Company   Contractual Obligations.       In addition, see  Primary
Risks Managed by Derivatives and Non-Derivatives  in Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on interest rate lock commitments.   
     Insolvency Assessments    
  See Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
     Policyholder Liabilities    
  We establish, and carry as liabilities, actuarially determined amounts that are calculated to meet policy obligations or
to provide for future annuity payments. Amounts for actuarial liabilities are computed and reported in the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP. For more details on Policyholder Liabilities, see    Summary of Critical
Accounting Estimates.       Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty
associated with the determination of actuarial liabilities, we cannot precisely determine the amounts that will ultimately be paid with respect to these actuarial liabilities, and the ultimate amounts may vary from the estimated amounts,
particularly when payments may not occur until well into the future.      Our actuarial liabilities for future
benefits are adequate to cover the ultimate benefits required to be paid to policyholders. We periodically review our estimates of actuarial liabilities for future benefits and compare them with our actual experience. We revise estimates, to the
extent permitted or required under GAAP, if we determine that future expected experience differs from assumptions used in the development of actuarial liabilities. We charge or credit changes in our liabilities to expenses in the period the
liabilities are established or re-estimated. If the liabilities originally established for future benefit payments prove inadequate, we must increase them. Such an increase could adversely affect our earnings and have a material adverse effect on
our business, results of operations and financial condition.      Insurance regulators in many of the non-U.S.
countries in which we operate require certain MetLife entities to prepare a sufficiency analysis of the reserves presented in the locally required regulatory financial statements, and to submit that analysis to the regulatory authorities. See
 Business   International Regulation.       We have experienced, and will likely in the future
experience, catastrophe losses and possibly acts of terrorism, as well as turbulent financial markets that may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Due to their nature, we cannot predict the
incidence, timing, severity or amount of losses from catastrophes and acts of terrorism, but we make broad use of catastrophic and non-catastrophic reinsurance to manage risk from these perils.   
         144

Table of Contents  

     Future Policy Benefits     
  We establish liabilities for amounts payable under insurance policies. See Notes 1 and 4 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. See also     Industry Trends   Interest Rate Stress Scenario  and    Variable Annuity Guarantees.  A discussion of future policy benefits by
segment follows.       Retail . For the Retail Life   Other business, future policy benefits are
comprised mainly of liabilities for traditional life and for universal and variable life insurance contracts. In order to manage risk, we have often reinsured a portion of the mortality risk on new individual life insurance policies. The reinsurance
programs are routinely evaluated and this may result in increases or decreases to existing coverage. We have entered into various derivative positions, primarily interest rate swaps and swaptions, to mitigate the risk that investment of premiums
received and reinvestment of maturing assets over the life of the policy will be at rates below those assumed in the original pricing of these contracts. For the Retail Annuities business, future policy benefits are comprised mainly of liabilities
for life-contingent income annuities, and liabilities for the variable annuity guaranteed minimum benefits accounted for as insurance.       Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits . With the exception of our property   casualty products, future policy benefits for our Group and Voluntary   Worksite
businesses are comprised mainly of liabilities for disabled lives under disability waiver of premium policy provisions, liabilities for survivor income benefit insurance, LTC policies, active life policies and premium stabilization and other
contingency liabilities held under life insurance contracts. For our property   casualty products, future policy benefits include unearned premium reserves and liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses and represent the amount
estimated for claims that have been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not reported. Liabilities for unpaid claims are estimated based upon assumptions such as rates of claim frequencies, levels of severities, inflation, judicial
trends, legislative changes or regulatory decisions. Assumptions are based upon our historical experience and analyses of historical development patterns of the relationship of loss adjustment expenses to losses for each line of business, and
consider the effects of current developments, anticipated trends and risk management programs, reduced for anticipated salvage and subrogation.       Corporate Benefit Funding . Liabilities for this segment are primarily related to payout annuities, including pension closeouts and structured settlement annuities. There is no interest rate
crediting flexibility on these liabilities. As a result, a sustained low interest rate environment could negatively impact earnings; however, we have employed various ALM strategies, including the use of various derivative positions, primarily
interest rate floors and interest rate swaps, to mitigate the risks associated with such a scenario.       Latin
America . Future policy benefits for this segment are held primarily for immediate annuities in Chile, Argentina and Mexico and traditional life contracts mainly in Brazil and Mexico. There are also reserves held for total return
pass-through provisions included in certain universal life and savings products in Mexico. Factors impacting these liabilities include sustained periods of lower yields than rates established at policy issuance, lower than expected asset
reinvestment rates, and mortality and lapses different than expected. We mitigate our risks by implementing an ALM policy and through the development of periodic experience studies.   
   Asia.  Future policy benefits for this segment are held primarily for traditional life, endowment, annuity and
accident   health contracts. They are also held for total return pass-through provisions included in certain universal life and savings products. They include certain liabilities for variable annuity and variable life guarantees of minimum
death benefits, and longevity guarantees. Factors impacting these liabilities include sustained periods of lower yields than rates established at policy issuance, lower than expected asset reinvestment rates, market volatility, actual lapses
resulting in lower than expected income, and actual mortality or morbidity resulting in higher than expected benefit payments. We mitigate our risks by implementing an ALM policy and through the development of periodic experience studies.
  
         145

Table of Contents  

    EMEA . Future policy benefits for this segment include unearned
premium reserves for group life and credit insurance contracts. Future policy benefits are also held for traditional life, endowment and annuity contracts with significant mortality risk and accident   health contracts. Factors impacting
these liabilities include sustained periods of lower yields than rates established at issue, lower than expected asset reinvestment rates, market volatility, actual lapses resulting in lower than expected income, and actual mortality or morbidity
resulting in higher than expected benefit payments. We mitigate our risks by having premiums which are adjustable or cancellable in some cases, implementing an asset/liability matching policy and through the development of periodic experience
studies.       Corporate   Other.  Future policy benefits primarily include liabilities for
quota-share reinsurance agreements for certain run-off LTC and workers  compensation business written by MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut ( MICC ). Additionally, future policy benefits includes liabilities for variable annuity
guaranteed minimum benefits assumed from a former operating joint venture in Japan that are accounted for as insurance.   
    Policyholder Account Balances        PABs are generally equal to the account value, which includes accrued interest credited, but excludes the impact of any applicable surrender charge that may be incurred upon surrender. See   
Industry Trends   Interest Rate Stress Scenario  and    Variable Annuity Guarantees.  See also Notes 1 and 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.   
   Retail . Life   Other PABs are held for retained asset accounts, universal life policies and the fixed
account of variable life insurance policies. For Annuities, PABs are held for fixed deferred annuities, the fixed account portion of variable annuities, and non-life contingent income annuities. PABs are credited interest at a rate set by us, which
is influenced by current market rates. A sustained low interest rate environment could negatively impact earnings as a result of the minimum credited rate guarantees present in most of these PABs. We have various derivative positions, primarily
interest rate floors, to partially mitigate the risks associated with such a scenario. Additionally, PABs are held for variable annuity guaranteed minimum living benefits that are accounted for as embedded derivatives.   
  The table below presents the breakdown of account value subject to minimum guaranteed crediting rates for Retail:

(1)  
    The table above is not adjusted for policy loans.      
         146

Table of Contents  

   As a result of acquisitions, we establish additional liabilities known as
excess interest reserves for policies with credited rates in excess of market rates as of the applicable acquisition dates. At December 31, 2012, excess interest reserves were $146 million and $386 million for Life   Other and
Annuities, respectively.       Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits.  PABs in this segment are held
for retained asset accounts, universal life policies, the fixed account of variable life insurance policies and specialized life insurance products for benefit programs. PABs are credited interest at a rate set by us, which are influenced by current
market rates. A sustained low interest rate environment could negatively impact earnings as a result of the minimum credited rate guarantees present in most of these PABs. We have various derivative positions, primarily interest rate floors, to
partially mitigate the risks associated with such a scenario.      The table below presents the breakdown of
account value subject to minimum guaranteed crediting rates for Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits:       

(1)  
    The table above is not adjusted for policy loans.      
   Corporate Benefit Funding.  PABs in this segment are comprised of funding agreements. Interest crediting rates
vary by type of contract, and can be fixed or variable. Variable interest crediting rates are generally tied to an external index, most commonly (1-month or 3-month) London Inter-Bank Offer Rate ( LIBOR ). We are exposed to interest rate
risks, as well as foreign currency exchange rate risk when guaranteeing payment of interest and return of principal at the contractual maturity date. We may invest in floating rate assets or enter into receive-floating interest rate swaps, also tied
to external indices, as well as caps, to mitigate the impact of changes in market interest rates. We also mitigate risks by implementing an ALM policy and seek to hedge all foreign currency exchange rate risk through the use of foreign currency
hedges, including cross currency swaps.       Latin America.  PABs in this segment are held largely for
deferred annuities mainly in Mexico and Brazil, and for universal life products mainly in Mexico. Some of the deferred annuities in Brazil are unit-linked-type funds that do not meet the GAAP definition of separate accounts. The rest of the deferred
annuities have minimum credited rate guarantees, and these liabilities and the universal life liabilities are generally impacted by sustained periods of low interest rates. Liabilities for unit-linked-type funds are impacted by changes in the fair
value of the associated investments, as the return on assets is generally passed directly to the policyholder.   
   Asia.  PABs in this segment are held largely for fixed income retirement and savings plans, fixed deferred
annuities, interest sensitive whole life products, universal life and, to a lesser degree, amounts for unit-linked-type funds that do not meet the GAAP definition of separate accounts. Also included are certain liabilities for retirement and savings
products sold in certain countries in Asia that generally are sold with minimum credited rate guarantees. Liabilities for guarantees on certain variable annuities in Asia are accounted for as embedded derivatives and recorded at estimated fair value
and are also included within PABs. These liabilities are generally impacted by sustained periods of low interest rates, where there are interest rate guarantees. We mitigate risks by implementing an ALM policy and with reinsurance. Liabilities for
unit-linked-type funds are impacted by changes in the fair value of the associated underlying investments, as the return on assets is generally passed directly to the policyholder.   
         147

Table of Contents  

   The table below presents the breakdown of account value subject to minimum
guaranteed crediting rates for Asia:       

(1)  
    The table above excludes negative VOBA liabilities of $2.9 billion at December 31, 2012, primarily held in Japan. These liabilities were established
in instances where the estimated fair value of contract obligations exceeded the book value of assumed insurance policy liabilities in the ALICO Acquisition. These negative liabilities were established primarily for decreased market interest rates
subsequent to the issuance of the policy contracts.          

(2)  
    The table above is not adjusted for policy loans.      
   EMEA . PABs in this segment are held mostly for universal life, deferred annuity, pension products, and
unit-linked-type funds that do not meet the GAAP definition of separate accounts. They are also held for endowment products without significant mortality risk. Where there are interest rate guarantees, these liabilities are generally impacted by
sustained periods of low interest rates. We mitigate risks by implementing an asset/liability matching policy. Liabilities for unit-linked-type funds are impacted by changes in the fair value of the associated investments, as the return on assets is
generally passed directly to the policyholder.       Corporate   Other.  PABs in Corporate  
Other are held for variable annuity guaranteed minimum benefits assumed from a former operating joint venture in Japan that are accounted for as embedded derivatives.        Variable Annuity Guarantees        We issue, directly and
through assumed reinsurance, certain variable annuity products with guaranteed minimum benefits that provide the policyholder a minimum return based on their initial deposit (i.e., the benefit base) less withdrawals. In some cases, the benefit base
may be increased by additional deposits, bonus amounts, accruals or optional market value resets. See Notes 1 and 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.   
  Certain guarantees, including portions thereof, have insurance liabilities established that are included in future policy
benefits. Guarantees accounted for in this manner include GMDB, the life-contingent portion of certain guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits ( GMWB ), and the portion of guaranteed minimum income benefits ( GMIB ) that requires
annuitization. These liabilities are accrued over the life of the contract in proportion to actual and future expected policy assessments based on the level of guaranteed minimum benefits generated using multiple scenarios of separate account
returns. The scenarios are based on best estimate assumptions consistent with those used to amortize DAC. When current estimates of future benefits exceed those previously projected or when current estimates of future assessments are lower than
those previously projected, liabilities will increase, resulting in a current period charge to net income. The opposite result occurs when the current   
         148

Table of Contents  

estimates of future benefits are lower than that previously projected or when current estimates of future assessments exceed those previously projected. At each reporting period, we update the
actual amount of business remaining in-force, which impacts expected future assessments and the projection of estimated future benefits resulting in a current period charge or increase to earnings.   
  Certain guarantees, including portions thereof, accounted for as embedded derivatives, are recorded at estimated fair
value and included in PABs. Guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives include guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits ( GMAB ), the non life-contingent portion of GMWB and the portion of certain GMIB that do not require
annuitization. The estimated fair values of guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives are determined based on the present value of projected future benefits minus the present value of projected future fees. The projections of future benefits
and future fees require capital market and actuarial assumptions including expectations concerning policyholder behavior. A risk neutral valuation methodology is used to project the cash flows from the guarantees under multiple capital market
scenarios to determine an economic liability. The reported estimated fair value is then determined by taking the present value of these risk-free generated cash flows using a discount rate that incorporates a spread over the risk free rate to
reflect our nonperformance risk and adding a risk margin. For more information on the determination of estimated fair value, see Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  The table below contains the carrying value for guarantees at:   
   
    The carrying amounts for guarantees included in PABs above include nonperformance risk
adjustments of $1.2 billion and $2.9 billion at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. These nonperformance risk adjustments represent the impact of including a credit spread when discounting the underlying risk neutral
cash flows to determine the estimated fair values. Therefore, the amount of the nonperformance risk adjustment is a function of both the size of the economic liability and credit spreads. In certain periods, changes in the nonperformance risk
adjustment can be a significant driver of net derivative gains (losses). Additionally, changes in the underlying cash flows can have a greater impact on the nonperformance risk adjustment than changes in credit spreads. The nonperformance risk
adjustment does not have an economic impact on us as it cannot be monetized given the nature of these policyholder liabilities. The change in valuation arising from the nonperformance risk adjustment is not hedged.   
         149

Table of Contents  

   The carrying values of these guarantees can change significantly during
periods of sizable and sustained shifts in equity market performance, equity volatility, interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates. Carrying values are also impacted by our assumptions around mortality, separate account returns and
policyholder behavior including lapse rates.      The above mentioned actuarial assumptions are updated
periodically as credible experience emerges which shows variances from the current assumptions. Where appropriate, these assumptions are consistent with those used in DAC amortization. See    Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates  
Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired.    The significant impacts to variable annuity guarantees from this year s update were primarily related to the inputs for policyholder behavior and separate account
returns. For policyholder behavior, the most significant update was to our lapse assumptions which included an update to reflect how policyholder surrender behavior has responded to in-the-moneyness of the guarantees. Actual experience for this
update has only begun to emerge as surrender charge periods have recently started to expire. With respect to separate account returns, which only impact liabilities included in future policy benefits, in our Retail segment we have lowered our
long-term return assumptions from 7.5% to 7.25% to reflect the impact of the sustained low interest rate environment on the fixed income portion of the separate accounts. The effect of an increase (decrease) by 100 basis points in the assumed future
rate of separate account returns in our Retail segment is reasonably likely to result in a decrease (increase) in future policy benefits of approximately $300 million.   
  As discussed below, we use a combination of product design, reinsurance, hedging strategies, and other risk management
actions to mitigate the risks related to these benefits. Within each type of guarantee, there is a range of product offerings reflecting the changing nature of these products over time. Changes in product features and terms are in part driven by
customer demand but, more importantly, reflect our risk management practices of continuously evaluating the guaranteed benefits and their associated asset-liability matching.   
  The sections below provide further detail by total contract account value for certain of our most popular guarantees.
Total contract account values include amounts not reported in the consolidated balance sheets from assumed reinsurance, contractholder-directed investments which do not qualify for presentation as separate account assets, and amounts included in our
general account.         GMDB         We offer a range of GMDB to our contractholders. The table below presents GMDB, by benefit type, at December 31, 2012:   

(1)  
    Total contract account value above excludes $2.3 billion for contracts with no GMDB and approximately $11 billion of total contract account value in
the EMEA and Asia regions.      
         150

Table of Contents  

   Based on total contract account value, less than 40% of our GMDB included
enhanced death benefits such as the annual step-up or roll-up and step-up combination products. We expect the above GMDB risk profile to be relatively consistent for the foreseeable future.   
  As part of our risk management of the GMDB business, we have been opportunistically reinsuring in-force blocks, taking
advantage of favorable capital market conditions. Our approach for such treaties has been to seek coverage for the enhanced GMDB, such as the annual step-up and the roll-up and step-up combination. These treaties tend to cover long periods until
claims start running off, and are written either on a first dollar basis or with a deductible.         Living Benefit Guarantees
        The table below presents our living benefit guarantees based on total contract account values at
December 31, 2012:       

(1)  
    Total contract account value above excludes $49.5 billion for contracts with no living benefit guarantees and approximately $8 billion of total
contract account value in the EMEA and Asia regions.         In terms of total contract account
value, GMIB is our most significant living benefit guarantee. Our primary risk management strategy for our GMIB products is our derivatives hedging program as discussed below. Additionally, we have engaged in certain reinsurance treaties covering
some of our GMIB business. As part of our overall risk management approach for living benefit guarantees, we continually monitor the reinsurance markets for the right opportunity to purchase additional coverage for our GMIB business.   
  The table below presents our GMIB, by their guaranteed payout basis, at December 31, 2012:   
   
    The annuitization interest rates on GMIB have been decreased from 2.5% to 0.5% over time,
partially in response to the low interest rate environment, accompanied by an increase in the setback period from seven years to 10 years and the recent introduction of the 10-year mortality projection. We expect new contracts to have comparable
guarantee features for the foreseeable future.   
         151

Table of Contents  

   Additionally, 27% of the $87.5 billion of GMIB total contract account value
has been invested in managed volatility funds as of December 31, 2012. These funds seek to manage volatility by adjusting the fund holdings within certain guidelines based on capital market movements. Such activity reduces the overall risk of
the underlying funds while maintaining their growth opportunities. These risk mitigation techniques translate to a reduction or elimination of the need for us to manage the funds  volatility through hedging or reinsurance. We expect the
proportion of total contract account value invested in these funds to increase for the foreseeable future, as new contracts with GMIB are required to invest in these funds.   
  Our GMIB products typically have a waiting period of 10 years to be eligible for annuitization. As of December 31,
2012, only 2.4% of our contracts with GMIB were eligible for annuitization. The remaining contracts are not eligible for annuitization for an average of 6.4 years.   
  Once eligible for annuitization, contractholders would only be expected to annuitize if their contracts were
in-the-money. We calculate in-the-moneyness with respect to GMIB consistent with net amount at risk as discussed in Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, by comparing the contractholders  income benefits based on total
contract account values and current annuity rates versus the guaranteed income benefits. For those contracts with GMIB, the table below presents details of contracts that are in-the-money and out-of-the money at December 31, 2012:   

152

Table of Contents  

      Derivatives Hedging Variable Annuity Guarantees      
  In addition to reinsurance and our risk mitigating steps described above, we have a hedging strategy that uses various
over the counter and exchanged traded derivatives. The table below presents the estimated fair value of the derivatives hedging our variable annuity guarantees:       
    The change in estimated fair values of our derivatives is recorded in policyholder
benefits and claims if they are hedging guarantees included in future policy benefits, and in net derivative gains (losses) if they are hedging guarantees included in PABs.   
  Our hedging strategy involves the significant use of static longer-term derivative instruments to avoid the need to
execute transactions during periods of market disruption or higher volatility. We continually monitor the capital markets for opportunities to adjust our liability coverage, as appropriate. Futures are also used to dynamically adjust the daily
coverage levels as markets and liability exposures fluctuate.      We remain liable for the guaranteed benefits in
the event that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. Certain of our reinsurance agreements and most derivative positions are collateralized and derivatives positions are subject to master netting agreements, both of
which significantly reduce the exposure to counterparty risk. In addition, we are subject to the risk that hedging and other risk management actions prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse
market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed.        
 Liquidity and Capital Resources         Overview     
  Our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the
economy generally. Stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in global capital markets, particular markets, or financial asset classes can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and our insurance
liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. The global markets and economy continue to experience significant volatility that may affect our financing costs and market interest for our debt or equity securities. For further information
regarding market factors that could affect our ability to meet liquidity and capital needs, see    Industry Trends  and    Investments   Current Environment.    
         153

Table of Contents  

      Liquidity Management      
  Based upon the strength of our franchise, diversification of our businesses, strong financial fundamentals and the
substantial funding sources available to us as described herein, we continue to believe we have access to ample liquidity to meet business requirements under current market conditions and unlikely but reasonably possible stress scenarios.
       Short-term Liquidity .  We maintain a substantial short-term liquidity position,
which was $24.1 billion and $16.2 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Short-term liquidity includes cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, excluding: (i) cash collateral received under our securities lending
program, and (ii) cash collateral received from counterparties in connection with derivatives. We continuously monitor and adjust our liquidity and capital plans for MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries in light of changing needs and
opportunities.        Liquid Assets .  An integral part of our liquidity management
includes managing our level of liquid assets, which was $292.2 billion and $258.9 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Liquid assets include cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and publicly-traded securities,
excluding: (i) cash collateral received under our securities lending program that has been reinvested; (ii) cash collateral received from counterparties in connection with derivatives; (iii) cash and cash equivalents, short-term
investments and securities on deposit with regulatory agencies; and (iv) securities held in trust in support of collateral financing arrangements and pledged in support of debt and funding agreements, derivatives and short sale agreements.
        Capital Management      
  We have established several senior management committees as part of our capital management process. These committees,
including the Capital Management Committee and the Enterprise Risk Committee, regularly review actual and projected capital levels (under a variety of scenarios including stress scenarios) and our capital plan in accordance with our capital policy.
The Capital Management Committee is comprised of members of senior management, including MetLife, Inc. s Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Chief Risk Officer. The Enterprise Risk Committee is also comprised of members of senior management,
including MetLife, Inc. s Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer and Chief Investment Officer.      Our
Board and senior management are directly involved in the development and maintenance of our capital policy. The capital policy sets forth, among other things, minimum and target capital levels and the governance of the capital management process.
All capital actions, including proposed changes to the capital plan, capital targets or capital policy, are reviewed by the Finance and Risk Committee of the Board prior to obtaining full Board approval. The Board approves the capital policy and the
annual capital plan and authorizes capital actions, as required.      See  Risk Factors  
Capital-Related Risks   We Have Been, and May Continue to be, Prevented from Repurchasing Our Stock and Paying Dividends at the Level We Wish as a Result of Regulatory Restrictions and Restrictions Under the Terms of Certain of Our
Securities  and Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding restrictions on payment of dividends and stock repurchases.        The Company           Liquidity      
  Liquidity refers to a company s ability to generate adequate amounts of cash to meet its needs. We determine our
liquidity needs based on a rolling six-month forecast by portfolio of invested assets which we monitor daily. We adjust the asset mix and asset maturities based on this forecast. To support this forecast, we conduct cash flow and stress testing,
which include various scenarios of the potential risk of early contractholder and   
         154

Table of Contents  

policyholder withdrawal. We include provisions limiting withdrawal rights on many of our products, including general account pension products sold to employee benefit plan sponsors. Certain of
these provisions prevent the customer from making withdrawals prior to the maturity date of the product. In the event of significant cash requirements beyond anticipated liquidity needs, we have various alternatives available depending on market
conditions and the amount and timing of the liquidity need. These options include cash flows from operations, the sale of liquid assets, global funding sources and various credit facilities.   
  Under certain stressful market and economic conditions, our access to liquidity may deteriorate, or the cost to access
liquidity may increase. If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of anticipated cash requirements or if we are required to post or return cash collateral in connection with derivatives or our securities lending program, we
may have difficulty selling investment assets in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. In addition, in the event of such forced sale, accounting guidance requires the recognition
of a loss for certain securities in an unrealized loss position and may require the impairment of other securities if there is a need to sell such securities, which may negatively impact our financial condition. See  Risk Factors  
Investment-Related Risks   Should the Need Arise, We May Have Difficulty Selling Certain Holdings in Our Investment Portfolio or Our Securities Lending Program in a Timely Manner and Realizing Full Value Given Their Illiquid Nature. 
     In extreme circumstances, all general account assets within a particular legal entity   other than
those which may have been pledged to a specific purpose   are available to fund obligations of the general account of that legal entity.         Capital         We manage our capital position to
maintain our financial strength and credit ratings. Our capital position is supported by our ability to generate strong cash flows within our operating companies and borrow funds at competitive rates, as well as by our demonstrated ability to raise
additional capital to meet operating and growth needs despite adverse market and economic conditions.        Rating Agencies.   Rating agencies assign insurer financial strength ratings to MetLife, Inc. s domestic life insurance subsidiaries and credit ratings to MetLife, Inc. and certain
of its subsidiaries. Financial strength ratings indicate the rating agency s opinion regarding an insurance company s ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations. Credit ratings indicate the rating agency s opinion
regarding a debt issuer s ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner. They are important factors in our overall funding profile and ability to access certain types of liquidity. The level and composition of regulatory
capital at the subsidiary level and our equity capital are among the many factors considered in determining our insurer financial strength and credit ratings. Each agency has its own capital adequacy evaluation methodology, and assessments are
generally based on a combination of factors. In addition to heightening the level of scrutiny that they apply to insurance companies, rating agencies have increased and may continue to increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, may
request additional information from the companies that they rate and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels.   
  Downgrades in our financial strength ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations in many ways, including:       

reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products;      

adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and independent sales intermediaries;      

materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders;      

requiring us to post additional collateral under certain of our financing transactions;      
         155

Table of Contents  

requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive; and      

adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices or at all.      
  A downgrade in the credit or insurer financial strength ratings of MetLife, Inc. or its subsidiaries
would likely (i) impact our ability to generate cash flows from the sale of funding agreements and other capital market products offered by our Corporate Benefit Funding segment, (ii) impact the cost and availability of financing for
MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries and (iii) result in additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, which are eligible to be satisfied in cash or by posting securities held by the subsidiaries subject
to the agreements. See    Liquidity and Capital Uses   Pledged Collateral.    
    Statutory Capital and Dividends.   Our insurance subsidiaries have statutory surplus
well above levels to meet current regulatory requirements.      Except for American Life,
risk-based capital ( RBC ) requirements are used as minimum capital requirements by the NAIC and the state insurance departments to identify companies that merit regulatory action. RBC is based on a formula calculated by applying factors
to various asset, premium and statutory reserve items. The formula takes into account the risk characteristics of the insurer, including asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and business risk and is calculated on an annual basis. The
formula is used as an early warning regulatory tool to identify possible inadequately capitalized insurers for purposes of initiating regulatory action, and not as a means to rank insurers generally. These rules apply to each of our domestic
insurance subsidiaries. State insurance laws grant insurance regulators the authority to require various actions by, or take various actions against, insurers whose total adjusted capital does not meet or exceed certain RBC levels. At the date of
the most recent annual statutory financial statements filed with insurance regulators, the total adjusted capital of each of these subsidiaries was in excess of each of those RBC levels.   
  American Life does not conduct insurance business in Delaware or any other domestic state and, as such,
is exempt from RBC requirements by Delaware law. In addition to Delaware, American Life operations are regulated by applicable authorities of the countries in which it operates and is subject to capital and solvency requirements in those countries.
     The amount of dividends that our insurance subsidiaries can pay to MetLife, Inc. or to other
parent entities is constrained by the amount of surplus we hold to maintain our ratings and provides an additional margin for risk protection and investment in our businesses. We proactively take actions to maintain capital consistent with these
ratings objectives, which may include adjusting dividend amounts and deploying financial resources from internal or external sources of capital. Certain of these activities may require regulatory approval. Furthermore, the payment of dividends and
other distributions to MetLife, Inc. and other parent entities by their respective insurance subsidiaries is governed by insurance laws and regulations. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Insurance Regulation,   Business
  International Regulation,     MetLife, Inc.   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Dividends from Subsidiaries  and Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         156

Table of Contents  

      Summary of Primary Sources and Uses of Liquidity and Capital
        Our primary sources and uses of liquidity and capital are summarized as follows:   
   
      Cash Flows from Operations.   The principal cash inflows
from our insurance activities come from insurance premiums, annuity considerations and deposit funds. The principal cash outflows relate to the liabilities associated with various life insurance, property   casualty, annuity and group
pension products, operating expenses and income tax, as well as interest on outstanding debt obligations. A primary liquidity concern with respect to these cash flows is the risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal.   
         157

Table of Contents  

     Cash Flows from Investments.   The
principal cash inflows from our investment activities come from repayments of principal on invested assets, proceeds from maturities of invested assets, sales of invested assets, settlements of freestanding derivatives and net investment income. The
principal cash outflows relate to purchases of investments, issuances of policy loans and settlements of freestanding derivatives. Additional cash outflows include those related to our securities lending activities. We typically have a net cash
outflow from investing activities because cash inflows from insurance operations are reinvested in accordance with our ALM discipline to fund insurance liabilities. We closely monitor and manage these risks through our credit risk management
process. The primary liquidity concerns with respect to these cash flows are the risk of default by debtors and market disruption.        Financing Cash Flows.   The principal cash inflows from our financing activities come from issuances of debt, issuances of MetLife, Inc. s securities, and deposit funds associated
with PABs. The principal cash outflows come from repayments of debt, payments of dividends on MetLife, Inc. s securities and withdrawals associated with PABs. A primary liquidity concern with respect to these cash flows is the risk of early
contractholder and policyholder withdrawal.         Liquidity and Capital Sources      
  In addition to the general description of liquidity and capital sources in    Summary of Primary Sources and
Uses of Liquidity and Capital,  the following additional information is provided regarding our primary sources of liquidity and capital:        Global Funding Sources.   Liquidity is provided by a variety of short-term instruments, including funding agreements, credit facilities and commercial paper. Capital is provided by a
variety of instruments, including short-term and long-term debt, collateral financing arrangements, junior subordinated debt securities, preferred securities and equity and equity-linked securities. The diversity of our funding sources enhances our
funding flexibility, limits dependence on any one market or source of funds and generally lowers the cost of funds. Our primary global funding sources include:   
   Common Stock.  In October 2012, MetLife, Inc. issued 28,231,956 shares of its common stock for
$1.0 billion in connection with the remarketing of senior debt securities and settlement of stock purchase contracts.      In November 2010, MetLife, Inc. issued to AM Holdings in connection with the financing of the ALICO Acquisition 78,239,712 new shares of its common stock at $40.90 per share. In March 2011, AM Holdings
sold the 78,239,712 shares of common stock in a public offering concurrent with a public offering by MetLife, Inc. of 68,570,000 new shares of its common stock at a price of $43.25 per share for proceeds of $2.9 billion, net of $16 million of
issuance costs.      In August 2010, in connection with the financing of the ALICO Acquisition,
MetLife, Inc. issued 86,250,000 new shares of its common stock at a price of $42.00 per share for proceeds of $3.5 billion, net of $94 million of issuance costs.   
   Commercial Paper, Reported in Short-term Debt.  MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Funding, Inc.
( MetLife Funding ) each have commercial paper programs supported by $4.0 billion in general corporate credit facilities (see    Credit and Committed Facilities ). MetLife Funding, a subsidiary of Metropolitan Life
Insurance Company ( MLIC ), serves as our centralized finance unit. MetLife Funding raises cash from its commercial paper program and uses the proceeds to extend loans, through MetLife Credit Corp., another subsidiary of MLIC, to MetLife,
Inc., MLIC and other affiliates in order to enhance the financial flexibility and liquidity of these companies. Outstanding balances for the commercial paper program fluctuate in line with changes to affiliates  financing arrangements.
  
         158

Table of Contents  

    Federal Home Loan Bank Funding Agreements, Reported in
Policyholder Account Balances.  Certain of our domestic insurance subsidiaries are members of various FHLB state associations. During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we issued $17.4 billion, $8.8 billion and $10.8 billion,
respectively, and repaid $14.8 billion, $8.7 billion and $12.0 billion, respectively, under funding agreements with the certain state FHLBs. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, total obligations outstanding under these funding agreements
were $15.4 billion and $12.8 billion, respectively. See Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Special Purpose Entity Funding Agreements, Reported in Policyholder Account Balances.  We issue fixed and floating rate funding agreements, which are denominated in either U.S. dollars or
foreign currencies, to certain special purpose entities ( SPEs ) that have issued either debt securities or commercial paper for which payment of interest and principal is secured by such funding agreements. During the years ended
December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we issued $35.1 billion, $39.9 billion and $34.1 billion, respectively, and repaid $31.1 billion, $41.6 billion and $30.9 billion, respectively, under such funding agreements. At December 31, 2012 and
2011, total obligations outstanding under these funding agreements were $30.0 billion and $25.5 billion, respectively. See Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
   Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation Funding Agreements, Reported in Policyholder Account
Balances.  We issue funding agreements to the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation ( Farmer Mac ), as well as to certain SPEs that have issued debt securities for which payment of interest and principal is secured by such funding
agreements; such debt securities are also guaranteed as to payment of interest and principal by Farmer Mac. The obligations under all such funding agreements are secured by a pledge of certain eligible agricultural real estate mortgage loans and
may, under certain circumstances, be secured by other qualified collateral. During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we issued $0, $1.5 billion and $250 million, respectively, and repaid $0, $1.5 billion and $0, respectively,
under such funding agreements. At both December 31, 2012 and 2011, total obligations outstanding under these funding agreements were $2.8 billion. See Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
   Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings.  See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information on the following issuances of debt and other borrowings:       

In August 2012, MetLife, Inc. issued $750 million of senior notes for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of certain senior
notes due in 2013;          

In November 2010, in connection with the financing of the ALICO Acquisition, MetLife, Inc. issued to AM Holdings $3.0 billion of senior debt
securities, which constitute a part of the MetLife, Inc. common equity units more fully described in Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements;      

In August 2010, in anticipation of the ALICO Acquisition, MetLife, Inc. issued $3.0 billion of senior notes;      

Remarketing of Senior Debt Securities and Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts.  In October
2012, MetLife, Inc. closed the successful remarketing of $1.0 billion of senior debt securities underlying the common equity units, which were issued in November 2010 in connection with the ALICO Acquisition. MetLife, Inc. did not receive any
proceeds from the remarketing. Common equity unit holders used the remarketing proceeds to settle their payment obligations under the applicable stock purchase contracts. The subsequent settlement of the stock purchase contracts occurred in October
2012, providing proceeds to   
         159

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc. of $1.0 billion in exchange for shares of MetLife, Inc. s common stock. MetLife, Inc. delivered 28,231,956 shares of its newly issued common stock to settle the stock
purchase contracts. See Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.       Credit and Committed Facilities.  We maintain unsecured credit facilities and committed facilities, which aggregated $4.0 billion and $12.4 billion, respectively, at December 31,
2012. When drawn upon, these facilities bear interest at varying rates in accordance with the respective agreements.      The unsecured credit facilities are used for general corporate purposes, to support the borrowers  commercial paper programs and for the issuance of letters of credit. At December 31, 2012, we
had outstanding $2.6 billion in letters of credit and no drawdowns against these facilities. Remaining unused commitments were $1.4 billion at December 31, 2012.   
  The committed facilities are used for collateral for certain of our affiliated reinsurance liabilities.
At December 31, 2012, $5.5 billion in letters of credit and $2.8 billion in aggregate drawdowns were outstanding against these facilities. Remaining unused commitments were $4.1 billion at December 31, 2012.   
  See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these
facilities.      We have no reason to believe that our lending counterparties will be unable to
fulfill their respective contractual obligations under these facilities. As commitments associated with letters of credit and financing arrangements may expire unused, these amounts do not necessarily reflect our actual future cash funding
requirements.        Outstanding Debt Under Global Funding Sources.   The following
table summarizes our outstanding debt at:       

(1)  
    For more information regarding issuances of short-term debt, see    Global Funding Sources  and Note 12 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.          

(2)  
    Excludes $2.5 billion and $3.1 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, of long-term debt relating to CSEs (see Note 8 of the Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements). For more information regarding long-term debt, see Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      

(3)  
    For information regarding prior issuances of collateral financing arrangements and junior subordinated debt securities, see Notes 13 and 14 of the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, respectively.      
    Dispositions.   Cash proceeds from dispositions during the years ended December 31,
2012, 2011 and 2010 were $605 million, $449 million and $0, respectively. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding certain of these dispositions.   
         160

Table of Contents  

      Liquidity and Capital Uses      
  In addition to the general description of liquidity and capital uses in    Summary of Primary Sources and Uses
of Liquidity and Capital  and    Contractual Obligations,  the following additional information is provided regarding our primary uses of liquidity and capital:   
    Convertible Preferred Stock Repurchases.   In March 2011, MetLife, Inc. repurchased for $2.9
billion and canceled all of the convertible preferred stock issued in November 2010 in connection with the ALICO Acquisition. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
    Common Stock Repurchases.   At December 31, 2012, MetLife, Inc. had $1.3 billion
remaining under its common stock repurchase program authorizations. See  Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  for further information relating to such
authorizations. During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we did not repurchase any shares of common stock under the repurchase program.   
  Under the aforementioned authorizations, MetLife, Inc. may purchase its common stock from the MetLife
Policyholder Trust, in the open market (including pursuant to the terms of a pre-set trading plan meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) and in privately negotiated transactions. Any future common
stock repurchases will be dependent upon several factors, including our capital position, liquidity, financial strength and credit ratings, general market conditions, the market price of MetLife, Inc. s common stock compared to
management s assessment of the stock s underlying value and applicable regulatory approvals, as well as other legal and accounting factors. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank
SIFI,   Risk Factors   Capital-Related Risks   We Have Been, and May Continue to be, Prevented from Repurchasing Our Stock and Paying Dividends at the Level We Wish as a Result of Regulatory Restrictions and Restrictions
Under the Terms of Certain of Our Securities  and Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Dividends.   During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, MetLife, Inc. paid dividends on its common stock of $811 million, $787 million and $784 million, respectively,
which was calculated based upon $0.74 per common share. During each of the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, MetLife, Inc. paid dividends on its preferred stock of $122 million. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for information regarding the calculation and timing of these dividends.      The
declaration and payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors, and will depend on MetLife, Inc. s financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, future prospects, regulatory restrictions on the
payment of dividends by MetLife, Inc. s other insurance subsidiaries and other factors deemed relevant by the board. In January 2013, MetLife, Inc. transitioned to paying common stock dividends quarterly. On January 4, 2013, MetLife, Inc.
announced a first quarter 2013 common stock dividend of $0.185 per share. The dividends will be payable on March 13, 2013 to shareholders of record as of February 6, 2013.   
  Preferred stock dividends are paid quarterly in accordance with the terms of MetLife, Inc. s
Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, and 6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B. The payment of dividends and other distributions by MetLife, Inc. to its security holders may be subject to the Federal Reserve, if, in the
future, MetLife, Inc. is designated as a non-bank SIFI. See  Business   U.S. Regulation   Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI.  The payment of dividends is also subject to restrictions under the terms of our
preferred stock and junior subordinated debentures in situations where we may be experiencing financial stress. See  Risk Factors   Capital-Related Risks   We Have Been, and May Continue to be, Prevented from Repurchasing Our Stock
and Paying Dividends at the Level We Wish as a Result of Regulatory Restrictions and Restrictions Under the Terms of Certain of Our Securities  and Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         161

Table of Contents  

     Debt Repayments.   See Notes 12 and 13 of
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on long-term and short-term debt and collateral financing arrangements, respectively, including:   

In June 2012 and December 2011, following regulatory approval, MetLife Reinsurance Company of Charleston, a wholly-owned subsidiary of MetLife,
Inc., repurchased and canceled $451 million and $650 million, respectively, in aggregate principal amounts of surplus notes.           Debt and Facility Covenants.   Certain of our debt instruments, credit facilities and committed facilities contain various administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants. We
believe we were in compliance with all such covenants at December 31, 2012.        Debt
Repurchases.   We may from time to time seek to retire or purchase our outstanding debt through cash purchases and/or exchanges for other securities, in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Any such
repurchases or exchanges will be dependent upon several factors, including our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, general market conditions, and applicable regulatory, legal and accounting factors. Whether or not to repurchase any
debt and the size and timing of any such repurchases is determined at our discretion.   
    Support Agreements.   MetLife, Inc. and several of its subsidiaries (each, an
 Obligor ) are parties to various capital support commitments, guarantees and contingent reinsurance agreements with certain subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. Under these arrangements, each Obligor, with respect to the applicable entity, has
agreed to cause such entity to meet specified capital and surplus levels, has guaranteed certain contractual obligations or has agreed to provide, upon the occurrence of certain contingencies, reinsurance for such entity s insurance
liabilities. We anticipate that in the event that these arrangements place demands upon us, there will be sufficient liquidity and capital to enable us to meet anticipated demands.   
  In July 2012, in connection with an operating agreement with the OCC governing MetLife Bank s
operations during its wind-down process, MetLife Bank and MetLife, Inc. entered into a capital support agreement with the OCC and MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Bank entered into an indemnification and capital maintenance agreement under which agreements
MetLife, Inc. will provide financial and other support to MetLife Bank to ensure that MetLife Bank can wind down its operations in a safe and sound manner.   
  See    MetLife, Inc.   Liquidity and Capital Uses   Support
Agreements.         Insurance Liabilities.   Liabilities arising from our
insurance activities primarily relate to benefit payments under various life insurance, property   casualty, annuity and group pension products, as well as payments for policy surrenders, withdrawals and loans. For annuity or deposit type
products, surrender or lapse product behavior differs somewhat by segment. In the Retail segment, which includes individual annuities, lapses and surrenders tend to occur in the normal course of business. During the years ended December 31,
2012 and 2011, general account surrenders and withdrawals from annuity products were $4.3 billion and $4.1 billion, respectively. In the Corporate Benefit Funding segment, which includes pension closeouts, bank-owned life insurance and other
fixed annuity contracts, as well as funding agreements and other capital market products, most of the products offered have fixed maturities or fairly predictable surrenders or withdrawals. With regard to the Corporate Benefit Funding segment
liabilities that provide customers with limited rights to accelerate   
         162

Table of Contents  

payments, there were $3.2 billion at December 31, 2012 of funding agreements and other capital market products that could be put back to the Company after a period of notice. Of these
liabilities, $535 million were subject to a notice period of 90 days. The remaining liabilities are subject to a notice period of five months or greater. See    Contractual Obligations.    
    Pledged Collateral.   We pledge collateral to, and have collateral pledged to us by,
counterparties in connection with our derivatives. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we were obligated to return cash collateral under our control of $6.0 billion and $9.5 billion, respectively. See    Investments  
Derivatives   Credit Risk.  With respect to derivatives with credit ratings downgrade triggers, a two-notch downgrade would have increased our derivative collateral requirements by $53 million at December 31, 2012. In addition,
we have pledged collateral and have had collateral pledged to us, and may be required from time to time to pledge additional collateral or be entitled to have additional collateral pledged to us, in connection with collateral financing arrangements
related to the reinsurance of closed block liabilities and universal life secondary guarantee liabilities. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
    Securities Lending.   We participate in a securities lending program whereby blocks of
securities are loaned to third parties, primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks. We obtain collateral, usually cash, from the borrower, which must be returned to the borrower when the loaned securities are returned to us. Under our securities
lending program, we were liable for cash collateral under our control of $27.7 billion and $24.2 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Of these amounts, $5.0 billion and $2.7 billion at December 31, 2012 and
2011, respectively, were on open, meaning that the related loaned security could be returned to us on the next business day requiring the immediate return of cash collateral we hold. The estimated fair value of the securities on loan related to the
cash collateral on open at December 31, 2012 was $4.8 billion, of which $4.6 billion were U.S. Treasury and agency securities which, if put to us, can be immediately sold to satisfy the cash requirements to immediately return the cash
collateral. See    Investments   Securities Lending  for further information.        Litigation.   Putative or certified class action litigation and other litigation, and claims and assessments against us, in addition to those discussed elsewhere herein and those
otherwise provided for in the consolidated financial statements, have arisen in the course of our business, including, but not limited to, in connection with our activities as an insurer, mortgage lending bank, employer, investor, investment advisor
and taxpayer. Further, state insurance regulatory authorities and other federal and state authorities regularly make inquiries and conduct investigations concerning our compliance with applicable insurance and other laws and regulations. See Note 21
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      We establish liabilities for
litigation and regulatory loss contingencies when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. For material matters where a loss is believed to be reasonably possible but not probable, no
accrual is made but we disclose the nature of the contingency and an aggregate estimate of the reasonably possible range of loss in excess of amounts accrued, when such an estimate can be made. It is not possible to predict or determine the ultimate
outcome of all pending investigations and legal proceedings. In some of the matters referred to herein, very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, are sought. Although in light of these considerations, it is
possible that an adverse outcome in certain cases could have a material adverse effect upon our financial position, based on information currently known by us, in our opinion, the outcome of such pending investigations and legal proceedings are not
likely to have such an effect. However, given the large and/or indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to
time, have a material adverse effect on our consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods.        Acquisitions.   Cash outflows for acquisitions during the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 were $49 million, $233 million and $7.2 billion, respectively.
See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding certain of these acquisitions.   
         163

Table of Contents  

      Contractual Obligations      
  The following table summarizes our major contractual obligations at December 31, 2012:   

(1)  
    The contractual obligations have not been adjusted for businesses divested in 2013. Such amounts are categorized according to the future timing of
such contractual obligations as of December 31, 2012 prior to giving effect to pending divestitures. The contractual obligations at December 31, 2012 do not include the obligation for an acquisition announced in February 2013. See
   MetLife, Inc.   Capital  and Notes 3 and 23 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.           Insurance Liabilities.   Insurance liabilities include future policy benefits, other policy-related balances, policyholder dividends payable and the policyholder dividend obligation, which are
all reported on the consolidated balance sheet and are more fully described in Notes 1 and 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The amounts presented in the table reflect future estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders
and others and (i) are based on mortality, morbidity, lapse and other assumptions comparable with our experience and expectations of future payment patterns; and (ii) consider future premium receipts on current policies in-force. All
estimated cash payments presented in the table are undiscounted as to interest, net of estimated future premiums on in-force policies and gross of any reinsurance recoverable. Amounts related to other policy-related balances are reported in the one
year or less category due to their short-term nature. Amounts related to policyholder dividends left on deposit are projected based on assumptions of policyholder withdrawal activity. Because the exact timing and amount of the ultimate policyholder
dividend obligation is subject to significant uncertainty and the amount of the policyholder dividend obligation is based upon a long-term projection of the performance of the closed block, we have reflected the obligation at the amount of the
liability, if any, presented in the consolidated balance sheet in the more than five years category. Additionally, the more than five years category includes estimated payments due for periods extending for more than 100 years.   
  The sum of the estimated cash flows shown for all years in the table of $342.3 billion exceeds the
liability amounts of $212.4 billion included on the consolidated balance sheet principally due to (i) the time value of money, which accounts for a substantial portion of the difference; and (ii) differences in assumptions, most
significantly mortality, between the date the liabilities were initially established and the current date; and are partially offset by liabilities related to accounting conventions, or which are not contractually due, which are excluded from the
table.      Actual cash payments to policyholders may differ significantly from the liabilities as
presented in the consolidated balance sheet and the estimated cash payments as presented in the table due to differences between actual experience and the assumptions used in the establishment of these liabilities and the estimation of these cash
payments.   
         164

Table of Contents  

   For the majority of our insurance operations, estimated
contractual obligations for future policy benefits and PABs as presented in the table are derived from the annual asset adequacy analysis used to develop actuarial opinions of statutory reserve adequacy for state regulatory purposes. These cash
flows are materially representative of the cash flows under GAAP. See    Policyholder Account Balances.         Policyholder Account Balances .  See Notes 1 and 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the components of PABs. See    Insurance
Liabilities  regarding the source and uncertainties associated with the estimation of the contractual obligations related to future policy benefits and PABs.   
  Amounts presented in the table represent the estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders
undiscounted as to interest and including assumptions related to the receipt of future premiums and deposits; withdrawals, including unscheduled or partial withdrawals; policy lapses; surrender charges; annuitization; mortality; future interest
credited; policy loans and other contingent events as appropriate for the respective product type. Such estimated cash payments are also presented net of estimated future premiums on policies currently in-force and gross of any reinsurance
recoverable. For obligations denominated in foreign currencies, cash payments have been estimated using current spot foreign currency rates.      The sum of the estimated cash flows shown for all years in the table of $315.5 billion exceeds the liability amount of $225.8 billion included on the consolidated balance sheet principally due to
(i) the time value of money, which accounts for a substantial portion of the difference; (ii) differences in assumptions, between the date the liabilities were initially established and the current date; and (iii) liabilities related
to accounting conventions, or which are not contractually due, which are excluded from the table.        Payables for Collateral Under Securities Loaned and Other Transactions.   We have accepted cash collateral in connection with securities lending and derivatives. As the securities lending
transactions expire within the next year or the timing of the return of the collateral is uncertain, the return of the collateral has been included in the one year or less category in the table. We also held non-cash collateral, which is not
reflected as a liability in the consolidated balance sheet, of $3.8 billion at December 31, 2012.        Bank Deposits .  Bank deposits of $6.5 billion exceed the amount on the balance sheet of $6.4 billion due to the inclusion of estimated interest payments through the stated contractual terms
to the depositor, and have not been reduced or otherwise adjusted as a result of the closing of the sale of the depository business on January 11, 2013. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Liquid deposits,
including demand deposit accounts, money market accounts and savings accounts, are assumed to mature at carrying value within one year. Certificates of deposit are assumed to pay all interest and principal at maturity.   
    Debt .  Amounts presented in the table for debt include short-term debt, long-term debt,
collateral financing arrangements and junior subordinated debt securities, the total of which differs from the total of the corresponding amounts presented on the consolidated balance sheet due to the following: (i) the amounts presented herein
do not include premiums or discounts upon issuance or purchase accounting fair value adjustments; (ii) the amounts presented herein include future interest on such obligations for the period from January 1, 2013 through maturity; and
(iii) the amounts presented herein do not include $2.5 billion at December 31, 2012 of long-term debt relating to CSEs as such debt does not represent our contractual obligations. Future interest on variable rate debt was computed using
prevailing rates at December 31, 2012 and, as such, does not consider the impact of future rate movements. Future interest on fixed rate debt was computed using the stated rate on the obligations for the period from January 1, 2013 through
maturity, except with respect to junior subordinated debt which was computed using the stated rates through the scheduled redemption dates as it is our expectation that such obligations will be redeemed at that time. Inclusion of interest payments
on junior subordinated debt securities through the final maturity dates would increase the contractual obligation by $7.7 billion. Amounts presented include payments under capital lease obligations of $3 million, $3 million, $1 million and $26
million, in the one year or less, more   
         165

Table of Contents  

than one year to three years, more than three years to five years and more than five years categories, respectively. Pursuant to collateral financing arrangements, MetLife, Inc. may be required
to deliver cash or pledge collateral to the respective unaffiliated financial institutions. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
    Investment Commitments .  To enhance the return on our investment portfolio, we commit to
lend funds under mortgage loans, bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments and we commit to fund partnership investments. In the table, the timing of the funding of mortgage loans and private corporate bond
investments is based on the expiration dates of the corresponding commitments. As it relates to commitments to fund partnerships and bank credit facilities, we anticipate that these amounts could be invested any time over the next five years;
however, as the timing of the fulfillment of the obligation cannot be predicted, such obligations are presented in the one year or less category in the table. Commitments to fund bridge loans are short-term obligations and, as a result, are
presented in the one year or less category in the table. See Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and    Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.    
    Operating Leases .  As a lessee, we have various operating leases, primarily for office
space. Contractual provisions exist that could increase or accelerate those lease obligations presented, including various leases with early buyouts and/or escalation clauses. However, the impact of any such transactions would not be material to our
financial position or results of operations. See Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.        Other .  Other obligations presented in the table are principally comprised of amounts due under reinsurance agreements, payables related to securities purchased but not yet settled,
securities sold short, accrued interest on debt obligations, estimated fair value of derivative obligations, deferred compensation arrangements, guaranty liabilities, the estimated fair value of forward stock purchase contracts, and general accruals
and accounts payable due under contractual obligations, which are all reported in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. If the timing of any of these other obligations is sufficiently uncertain, the amounts are included within the
one year or less category. Items reported in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets that were excluded from the table represent accounting conventions or are not liabilities due under contractual obligations. Unrecognized tax benefits
and related accrued interest of $708 million and $237 million, respectively, was excluded from the table as the timing of payment cannot be reliably determined.   
  Separate account liabilities are excluded from the table. Generally, the separate account owner, rather than the Company,
bears the investment risk of these funds. The separate account assets are legally segregated and are not subject to the claims that arise out of any of our other businesses. Net deposits, net investment income and realized and unrealized capital
gains and losses on the separate accounts are fully offset by corresponding amounts credited to contractholders whose liability is reflected with the separate account liabilities. Separate account liabilities are fully funded by cash flows from the
corresponding separate account assets and are set equal to the estimated fair value of separate account assets.   
  We also enter into agreements to purchase goods and services in the normal course of business; however, these purchase
obligations were not material to our consolidated results of operations or financial position at December 31, 2012.      Additionally, we have agreements in place for services we conduct, generally at cost, between subsidiaries relating to insurance, reinsurance, loans and capitalization. Intercompany transactions have been
eliminated in consolidation. Intercompany transactions among insurance subsidiaries and affiliates have been approved by the appropriate insurance regulators as required.   
         166

Table of Contents  

     MetLife, Inc.     
     Liquidity Management and Capital Management      
  Liquidity and capital are managed to preserve stable, reliable and cost-effective sources of cash to meet all current and
future financial obligations and are provided by a variety of sources, including a portfolio of liquid assets, a diversified mix of short- and long-term funding sources from the wholesale financial markets and the ability to borrow through credit
and committed facilities. Liquidity is monitored through the use of internal liquidity risk metrics, including the composition and level of the liquid asset portfolio, timing differences in short-term cash flow obligations, access to the financial
markets for capital and debt transactions and exposure to contingent draws on MetLife, Inc. s liquidity. MetLife, Inc. is an active participant in the global financial markets through which it obtains a significant amount of funding. These
markets, which serve as cost-effective sources of funds, are critical components of MetLife, Inc. s liquidity and capital management. Decisions to access these markets are based upon relative costs, prospective views of balance sheet growth and
a targeted liquidity profile and capital structure. A disruption in the financial markets could limit MetLife, Inc. s access to liquidity.      MetLife, Inc. s ability to maintain regular access to competitively priced wholesale funds is fostered by its current credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies. We view our capital ratios,
credit quality, stable and diverse earnings streams, diversity of liquidity sources and our liquidity monitoring procedures as critical to retaining such credit ratings. See    The Company   Capital   Rating
Agencies.         Liquid Assets.   At December 31, 2012 and 2011,
MetLife, Inc. and other MetLife holding companies had $5.7 billion and $4.2 billion, respectively, in liquid assets. Of these amounts, $5.0 billion and $3.8 billion were held by MetLife, Inc. and $0.7 billion and $0.4 billion were held by other
MetLife holding companies, at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Liquid assets include cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and publicly-traded securities, excluding: (i) cash collateral received under our securities
lending program; (ii) cash collateral received from counterparties in connection with derivatives; and (iii) securities held in trust in support of collateral financing arrangements and pledged in support of advances agreements and
derivatives.      Liquid assets held in non-U.S. holding companies are generated in part through
dividends from non-U.S. insurance operations determined to be available after application of local insurance regulatory requirements, as discussed in    MetLife, Inc.   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Dividends from
Subsidiaries.  The cumulative earnings of certain active non-U.S. operations have been reinvested indefinitely in such non-U.S. operations, as described in Note 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Under current tax laws,
should we repatriate such earnings, we may be subject to additional U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes.   
     Liquidity         For a summary of MetLife, Inc. s liquidity, see    The Company   Liquidity.          Capital           Potential
Restrictions and Limitations on Non-Bank SIFIs.   MetLife Bank has terminated its Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) insurance and MetLife, Inc. de-registered as a bank holding company. As a result, MetLife, Inc. is no
longer subject to enhanced supervision and prudential standards as a bank holding company with assets of $50 billion or more. However, if, in the future, MetLife, Inc. is designated by the FSOC as a non-bank systemically important financial
institution ( non-bank SIFI ), it could once again be subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve and enhanced supervision and prudential standards. In addition, if MetLife, Inc. is designated as a non-bank SIFI or a G-SII, its ability to
pay dividends, repurchase common   
         167

Table of Contents  

stock or other securities or engage in other transactions that could affect its capital or need for capital could be reduced by any additional capital requirements that might be imposed. See
 Business   U.S. Regulation   Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI  and    International Regulation.          Liquidity and Capital Sources         In addition
to the description of liquidity and capital sources in    The Company   Summary of Primary Sources and Uses of Liquidity and Capital,  the following additional information is provided regarding MetLife, Inc. s primary
sources of liquidity and capital:        Dividends from Subsidiaries.   MetLife,
Inc. relies in part on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its cash requirements. MetLife, Inc. s insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends imposed by the regulators of their respective
domiciles. The dividend limitation for U.S. insurance subsidiaries is generally based on the surplus to policyholders at the end of the immediately preceding calendar year and statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding
calendar year. Statutory accounting practices, as prescribed by insurance regulators of various states in which we conduct business, differ in certain respects from accounting principles used in financial statements prepared in conformity with GAAP.
The significant differences relate to the treatment of DAC, certain deferred income tax, required investment liabilities, statutory reserve calculation assumptions, goodwill and surplus notes.   
  The table below sets forth the dividends permitted to be paid by the respective insurance subsidiary
without insurance regulatory approval and the respective dividends paid:       

(1)  
    Reflects dividend amounts that may be paid during 2013 without prior regulatory approval. However, because dividend tests may be based on dividends
previously paid over rolling 12-month periods, if paid before a specified date during 2013, some or all of such dividends may require regulatory approval.      

(2)  
    Reflects all amounts paid, including those requiring regulatory approval.      

(3)  
    Reflects dividend amounts that could have been paid during the relevant year without prior regulatory approval.      

168

Table of Contents  

(5)  
    During May 2012, American Life received regulatory approval to pay an extraordinary dividend for an amount up to the funds remitted in connection
with the restructuring of American Life s business in Japan. Subsequently, $1.5 billion was remitted to American Life. See Note 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Of this approved amount, $1.3 billion was paid to MetLife,
Inc., as an extraordinary dividend.          

(6)  
    No dividends were paid to MetLife, Inc. from the ALICO Acquisition Date through December 31, 2010. See Note 3 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.          

(7)  
    During June 2012, MICC distributed shares of an affiliate to its shareholders as an in-kind extraordinary dividend of $202 million, as calculated on
a statutory basis. Regulatory approval for this extraordinary dividend was obtained due to the timing of payment. During December 2012, MICC paid a dividend to its shareholders in the amount of $504 million, which represented its ordinary dividend
capacity at December 31, 2012. Due to the June 2012 in-kind dividend, a portion of this was extraordinary and regulatory approval was obtained.          

(8)  
    Reflects shares of an affiliate distributed to MetLife, Inc. as an in-kind dividend of $475 million.      
  In addition to the amounts presented in the table above, for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011
and 2010, cash dividends in the aggregate amount of $150 million, $139 million and $0, respectively, were paid to MetLife, Inc. by certain of its other subsidiaries. Additionally, for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, MetLife,
Inc. received cash of $9 million, $771 million and $54 million, respectively, representing returns of capital from certain subsidiaries.      The dividend capacity of our non-U.S. operations is subject to similar restrictions established by the local regulators. The non-U.S. regulatory regimes also commonly limit the dividend payments
to the parent to a portion of the prior year s statutory income, as determined by the local accounting principles. The regulators of our non-U.S. operations, including Japan s Financial Services Agency, may also limit or not permit
profit repatriations or other transfers of funds to the U.S. if such transfers are deemed to be detrimental to the solvency or financial strength of the non-U.S. operations, or for other reasons. Most of the non-U.S. subsidiaries are
second tier subsidiaries which are owned by various non-U.S. holding companies. The capital and rating considerations applicable to the first tier subsidiaries may also impact the dividend flow into MetLife, Inc.   
  We actively manage target and excess capital levels and dividend flows on a proactive basis and forecast
local capital positions as part of the financial planning cycle. The dividend capacity of certain U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries is also subject to business targets in excess of the minimum capital necessary to maintain the desired rating
or level of financial strength in the relevant market. We cannot provide assurance that MetLife, Inc. s subsidiaries will have statutory earnings to support payment of dividends to MetLife, Inc. in an amount sufficient to fund its cash
requirements and pay cash dividends and that the applicable regulators will not disapprove any dividends that such subsidiaries must submit for approval. See  Risk Factors   Capital-Related Risks   As a Holding Company, MetLife, Inc.
Depends on the Ability of Its Subsidiaries to Transfer Funds to It to Meet Its Obligations and Pay Dividends  and Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
    Short-term Debt.   MetLife, Inc. maintains a commercial paper program, proceeds of which
can be used to finance the general liquidity needs of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries. MetLife, Inc. had no short-term debt outstanding at both December 31, 2012 and 2011.   
    Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings.   For information on MetLife, Inc. s debt
issuances and other borrowings, see    The Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings.    
         169

Table of Contents  

     Collateral Financing Arrangements and Junior
Subordinated Debt Securities.   For information on MetLife, Inc. s collateral financing arrangements and junior subordinated debt securities, see Notes 13 and 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, respectively.
       Credit and Committed Facilities.   At December 31, 2012, MetLife, Inc.,
along with MetLife Funding, maintained $4.0 billion in unsecured credit facilities, the proceeds of which are available for general corporate purposes, to support our commercial paper programs and for the issuance of letters of credit. At
December 31, 2012, MetLife, Inc. had outstanding $2.6 billion in letters of credit and no drawdowns against these facilities. Remaining unused commitments were $1.4 billion at December 31, 2012.   
  MetLife, Inc. maintains committed facilities with a capacity of $300 million. At December 31,
2012, MetLife, Inc. had outstanding $300 million in letters of credit and no drawdowns against these facilities. There were no remaining unused commitments at December 31, 2012. In addition, MetLife, Inc. is a party to committed facilities
of certain of its subsidiaries, which aggregated $12.1 billion at December 31, 2012. The committed facilities are used as collateral for certain of the Company s affiliated reinsurance liabilities.   
  See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on these
facilities.        Long-term Debt Outstanding.   The following table summarizes the
outstanding long-term debt of MetLife, Inc. at:       

(1)  
    In September 2012, $750 million of senior notes issued by Exeter Reassurance Company, Ltd. ( Exeter ), a subsidiary, payable to MLIC, were
reassigned to MetLife, Inc. MetLife, Inc. received $750 million of preferred stock of Exeter in exchange for the assumption of this affiliated debt. On September 30, 2012, $250 million of the assumed senior notes matured and subsequently, in
October 2012, a new $250 million senior note was issued by MetLife, Inc. to MLIC. The new $250 million senior note matures on October 1, 2019 and bears interest at a fixed rate of 3.57%, payable semi-annually. The remaining $500 million
senior note matures on June 30, 2014 and bears interest at a fixed rate of 6.44%, payable semi-annually.          

(2)  
    In December 2012, $1.25 billion of Exeter senior notes payable to affiliates, which are comprised of three notes, were reassigned to MetLife, Inc.
MetLife, Inc. received $1.25 billion of preferred stock of Exeter in exchange for the assumption of this affiliated debt. A $250 million senior note matures on September 30, 2016 and bears interest at a fixed rate of 7.44%, payable
semi-annually. A $500 million senior note matures on July 15, 2021 and bears interest at a fixed rate of 5.64%, payable semi-annually. A $500 million senior note matures on December 16, 2021 and bears interest at a fixed rate of
5.86%, payable semi-annually.          

(3)  
    In December 2012, MetLife, Inc. issued a $750 million senior note to MRD due September 30, 2032. The senior note bears interest at a fixed rate
of 4.21%, payable semi-annually. MRD issued a $750 million surplus note to MetLife, Inc. in exchange for the senior note.           Dispositions.   During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2010, there were no cash proceeds from dispositions. Cash proceeds from dispositions during the year ended
December 31, 2011 was $180 million. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding certain of these dispositions.   
         170

Table of Contents  

      Liquidity and Capital Uses      
  In addition to the description of liquidity and capital uses in    The Company   Liquidity and Capital
Uses  and    Contractual Obligations,  the following additional information is provided regarding MetLife, Inc. s primary uses of liquidity and capital:   
  The primary uses of liquidity of MetLife, Inc. include debt service, cash dividends on common and preferred stock,
capital contributions to subsidiaries, payment of general operating expenses and acquisitions. Based on our analysis and comparison of our current and future cash inflows from the dividends we receive from subsidiaries that are permitted to be paid
without prior insurance regulatory approval, our investment portfolio and other cash flows and anticipated access to the capital markets, we believe there will be sufficient liquidity and capital to enable MetLife, Inc. to make payments on debt,
make cash dividend payments on its common and preferred stock, contribute capital to its subsidiaries, pay all general operating expenses and meet its cash needs.   
    Affiliated Capital Transactions.   During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011
and 2010, MetLife, Inc. invested an aggregate of $3.5 billion, $1.9 billion and $699 million (excluding the ALICO Acquisition), respectively, in various subsidiaries.   
  MetLife, Inc. lends funds, as necessary, to its subsidiaries and affiliates, some of which are regulated,
to meet their capital requirements. In December 2012, MetLife Reinsurance Company of Delaware ( MRD ) issued a $750 million surplus note to MetLife, Inc. due September 2032. The surplus note bears interest at a fixed rate of 5.13%, payable
semi-annually. MetLife, Inc. issued a $750 million senior note to MRD in exchange for the surplus note. MetLife, Inc. had loans to subsidiaries outstanding of $750 million at December 31, 2012. At December 31, 2011, MetLife, Inc. did not
have any loans to subsidiaries outstanding.        Debt Repayments.   For
information on MetLife, Inc. s debt repayments, see    The Company   Liquidity and Capital Uses   Debt Repayments.  MetLife, Inc. intends to repay all or refinance in whole or in part the debt that is due in 2013.
       Debt and Facility Covenants.   Certain of MetLife, Inc. s debt
instruments, credit facilities and committed facilities contain various administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants. MetLife, Inc. believes it was in compliance with all such covenants at December 31, 2012.   
    Maturities of Senior Notes.   The following table summarizes MetLife, Inc. s
outstanding senior notes series by year of maturity through 2017 and 2018 to 2045, excluding any premium or discount, at December 31, 2012:       
      Support Agreements.   MetLife, Inc. is party to various
capital support commitments and guarantees with certain of its subsidiaries. Under these arrangements, MetLife, Inc. has agreed to cause each such entity to meet specified capital and surplus levels or has guaranteed certain contractual obligations.
  
         171

Table of Contents  

   In December 2012, MetLife, Inc., in connection with
MRD s reinsurance of certain universal life and term life risks, entered into a capital maintenance agreement pursuant to which MetLife, Inc. agreed, without limitation as to amount, to cause the initial protected cell of MRD to maintain total
adjusted capital equal to or greater than 200% of such protected cell s company action level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes.      In July 2012, in connection with an operating agreement with the OCC governing MetLife Bank s operations during its wind-down process, MetLife Bank and MetLife, Inc. entered into a capital support
agreement with the OCC and MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Bank entered into an indemnification and capital maintenance agreement under which agreements MetLife, Inc. will provide financial and other support to MetLife Bank to ensure that MetLife Bank can
wind down its operations in a safe and sound manner. Pursuant to the agreements, MetLife, Inc. is required to ensure that MetLife Bank meets or exceeds certain minimum capital and liquidity requirements once its FDIC insurance has been terminated
and make indemnification payments to MetLife Bank in connection with MetLife Bank s obligation under the April 2011 consent decree between MetLife Bank and the OCC. In February 2013, MetLife Bank s FDIC insurance was terminated. During the
year ended December 31, 2012, MetLife, Inc. invested $34 million in cash in MetLife Bank in connection with these agreements. In January 2013, MetLife, Inc. entered into an 18-month agreement with MetLife Bank to lend up to $500 million to
MetLife Bank on a revolving basis. In January 2013, MetLife Bank both drew down and repaid $400 million under the agreement, which bore interest at a rate of three-month LIBOR plus 1.75%. In February 2013, the agreement was amended to reduce
borrowing capacity to $100 million.      MetLife, Inc. guarantees the obligations of its
subsidiary, DelAm, under a stop loss reinsurance agreement with RGA Reinsurance (Barbados) Inc. ( RGARe ), pursuant to which RGARe retrocedes to DelAm a portion of the whole life medical insurance business that RGARe assumed from American
Life on behalf of its Japan operations.      Prior to the sale in April 2011 of its 50% interest
in Mitsui Sumitomo MetLife Insurance Co., Ltd. ( MSI MetLife ) to a third party, MetLife, Inc. guaranteed the obligations of its subsidiary, Exeter, under a reinsurance agreement with MSI MetLife, under which Exeter reinsures variable
annuity business written by MSI MetLife. This guarantee will remain in place until such time as the reinsurance agreement between Exeter and MSI MetLife is terminated, notwithstanding the April 2011 disposition of MetLife, Inc. s interest in
MSI MetLife as described in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  MetLife, Inc. guarantees the obligations of its subsidiary, Missouri Reinsurance, Inc.
( MoRe ), under a retrocession agreement with RGARe, pursuant to which MoRe retrocedes a portion of the closed block liabilities associated with industrial life and ordinary life insurance policies that it assumed from MLIC.   
  MetLife, Inc. guarantees the obligations of Exeter in an aggregate amount up to $1.0 billion, under
a reinsurance agreement with MetLife Europe Limited ( MEL ), under which Exeter reinsures the guaranteed living benefits and guaranteed death benefits associated with certain unit-linked annuity contracts issued by MEL.   
  MetLife, Inc. guarantees the obligations of MoRe, under a retrocession agreement with RGARe, pursuant to
which MoRe retrocedes certain group term life insurance liabilities that it assumed from MLIC.   
  MetLife, Inc., in connection with MetLife Reinsurance Company of Vermont s ( MRV )
reinsurance of certain universal life and term life insurance risks, committed to the Vermont Department of Banking, Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration to take necessary action to cause the three protected cells of MRV to maintain
total adjusted capital in an amount that is equal to or greater than 200% of each such protected cell s authorized control level RBC, as defined in Vermont state insurance statutes. See    The Company   Liquidity and
Capital Sources   Credit and Committed Facilities  and Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         172

Table of Contents  

   MetLife, Inc., in connection with the collateral financing
arrangement associated with MetLife Reinsurance Company of Charleston s ( MRC ) reinsurance of a portion of the liabilities associated with the closed block, committed to the South Carolina Department of Insurance to make capital
contributions, if necessary, to MRC so that MRC may at all times maintain its total adjusted capital in an amount that is equal to or greater than 200% of the company action level RBC, as defined in South Carolina state insurance statutes as in
effect on the date of determination or December 31, 2007, whichever calculation produces the greater capital requirement, or as otherwise required by the South Carolina Department of Insurance. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.      MetLife, Inc., in connection with the collateral financing arrangement
associated with MetLife Reinsurance Company of South Carolina s ( MRSC ) reinsurance of universal life secondary guarantees, committed to the South Carolina Department of Insurance to take necessary action to cause MRSC to maintain
the greater of capital and surplus of $250,000 or total adjusted capital in an amount that is equal to or greater than 100% of authorized control level RBC, as defined in South Carolina state insurance statutes. See Note 13 of the Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.      MetLife, Inc. has net worth maintenance agreements
with two of its insurance subsidiaries, MetLife Investors Insurance Company and First MetLife Investors Insurance Company. Under these agreements, as amended, MetLife, Inc. agreed, without limitation as to the amount, to cause each of these
subsidiaries to have capital and surplus of $10 million, total adjusted capital in an amount that is equal to or greater than 150% of the company action level RBC, as defined by applicable state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary
to enable it to meet its current obligations on a timely basis.      MetLife, Inc. guarantees
obligations arising from derivatives of the following subsidiaries: Exeter, MetLife Bank, MetLife International Holdings, Inc. and MetLife Worldwide Holdings, Inc. These subsidiaries are exposed to various risks relating to their ongoing business
operations, including interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate, credit and equity market. These subsidiaries use a variety of strategies to manage these risks, including the use of derivatives. Further, all of the subsidiaries  derivatives
are subject to industry standard netting agreements and collateral agreements that limit the unsecured portion of any open derivative position. On a net counterparty basis at December 31, 2012 and 2011, derivative transactions with positive
mark-to-market values (in-the-money) were $3.2 billion and $4.9 billion, respectively, and derivative transactions with negative mark-to-market values (out-of-the-money) were $22 million and $51 million, respectively. To secure the obligations
represented by the out of-the-money transactions, the subsidiaries had provided collateral to their counterparties with an estimated fair value of $12 million and $47 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Accordingly, unsecured
derivative liabilities guaranteed by MetLife, Inc. were $10 million and $4 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.      MetLife, Inc. also guarantees the obligations of certain of its subsidiaries under committed facilities with third-party banks. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
       Acquisitions.   During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011,
there were no cash outflows for acquisitions. Cash outflows for acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2010 were $7.2 billion. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding certain of these
acquisitions. See Note 23 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding a pending acquisition.         Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements       See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.        
 Future Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements       See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.   
         173

Table of Contents  

      Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures    
  Operating earnings is defined as operating revenues less operating expenses, both net of income tax. Operating earnings
available to common shareholders is defined as operating earnings less preferred stock dividends.      Operating
revenues and operating expenses exclude results of Divested Businesses. Operating revenues also excludes net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses). Operating expenses also excludes goodwill impairments.   
  The following additional adjustments are made to GAAP revenues, in the line items indicated, in calculating operating
revenues:       

Universal life and investment-type product policy fees excludes the amortization of unearned revenue related to net investment gains (losses) and
net derivative gains (losses) and certain variable annuity GMIB fees ( GMIB Fees           

Net investment income: (i) includes amounts for scheduled periodic settlement payments and amortization of premium on derivatives that are
hedges of investments but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, (ii) includes income from discontinued real estate operations, (iii) excludes post-tax operating earnings adjustments relating to insurance joint ventures accounted
for under the equity method, (iv) excludes certain amounts related to contractholder-directed unit-linked investments, and (v) excludes certain amounts related to securitization entities that are VIEs consolidated under GAAP; and

Other revenues are adjusted for settlements of foreign currency earnings hedges.      
  The following additional adjustments are made to GAAP expenses, in the line items indicated, in calculating operating
expenses:       

Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends excludes: (i) changes in the policyholder dividend obligation related to net
investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), (ii) inflation-indexed benefit adjustments associated with contracts backed by inflation-indexed investments and amounts associated with periodic crediting rate adjustments based on
the total return of a contractually referenced pool of assets, (iii) benefits and hedging costs related to GMIBs ( GMIB Costs ), and (iv) market value adjustments associated with surrenders or terminations of contracts
( Market Value Adjustments           

Interest credited to policyholder account balances includes adjustments for scheduled periodic settlement payments and amortization of premium on
derivatives that are hedges of PABs but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and excludes amounts related to net investment income earned on contractholder-directed unit-linked investments;      

Amortization of DAC and VOBA excludes amounts related to: (i) net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), (ii) GMIB
Fees and GMIB Costs, and (iii) Market Value Adjustments;          

Amortization of negative VOBA excludes amounts related to Market Value Adjustments;      

Interest expense on debt excludes certain amounts related to securitization entities that are VIEs consolidated under GAAP; and

Other expenses excludes costs related to: (i) noncontrolling interests, (ii) implementation of new insurance regulatory requirements, and
(iii) acquisition and integration costs.         Also, operating return on common equity is
defined as operating earnings available to common shareholders, divided by average GAAP common equity.   
         174

Table of Contents  

   We believe the presentation of operating earnings and operating earnings
available to common shareholders as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our performance by highlighting the results of operations and the underlying profitability drivers of our business. Operating revenues, operating
expenses, operating earnings, operating earnings available to common shareholders, and operating return on common equity, should not be viewed as substitutes for the following financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP: GAAP revenues,
GAAP expenses, GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, GAAP net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc. s common shareholders, and return on common equity, respectively. Reconciliations of these measures to the most
directly comparable GAAP measures are included in    Results of Operations.       In this
discussion, we sometimes refer to sales activity for various products. These sales statistics do not correspond to revenues under GAAP, but are used as relevant measures of business activity. Additionally, the impact of changes in our foreign
currency exchange rates is calculated using the average foreign currency exchange rates for the current year and is applied to each of the comparable years.      In this discussion, we also provide forward-looking guidance on an operating, or non-GAAP, basis. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is not
accessible on a forward-looking basis because we believe it is not possible to provide other than a range of net investment gains and losses and net derivative gains and losses, which can fluctuate significantly within or outside the range and from
period to period and may have a significant impact on GAAP net income.         Subsequent Events
      See Note 23 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  As previously announced, Punjab National Bank ( PNB ) agreed to acquire a 30% stake in MetLife India Insurance
Company Limited ( MetLife India ), subject to regulatory approval and final agreements among PNB and the existing shareholders of MetLife India, and had entered into a separate exclusive 10-year distribution agreement to sell MetLife
India s products through PNB s branch network. In January 2013, PNB completed the acquisition of the 30% stake in MetLife India. PNB is the second largest bank in India based on revenues, with approximately 5,700 branches and
70 million customers.   
         175

Table of Contents  

      Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk         Risk Management     
  We actively manage, measure and monitor the market risk associated with our assets and liabilities. We have developed an
integrated process for managing risk, which we conduct through our Global Risk Management Department, Asset/Liability Management Unit, Treasury Department and Investments Department along with the management of our business segments. We have
established and implemented comprehensive policies and procedures at both the corporate and business segment level to minimize the effects of potential market volatility.   
  We regularly analyze our exposure to interest rate, equity market price and foreign currency exchange rate risks. As a
result of that analysis, we have determined that the estimated fair values of certain assets and liabilities are materially exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the equity markets.   
   Global Risk Management.   We have established several financial and non-financial senior management
committees as part of our risk management process. These committees manage capital and risk positions, approve ALM strategies and establish appropriate corporate business standards. Further enhancing its committee structure, during 2010, we created
an Enterprise Risk Committee. The Enterprise Risk Committee is comprised of members of senior management, including MetLife, Inc. s Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer and Chief Investment Officer. This committee is responsible for
reviewing all material risks to the enterprise and deciding on actions if necessary, in the event risks exceed desirable targets, taking into consideration best practices and the current environment to resolve or mitigate those risks.   
  We also have a separate Global Risk Management Department, which is responsible for risk management throughout MetLife
and reports to MetLife s Chief Risk Officer, who reports to MetLife s Chief Executive Officer. The Global Risk Management Department s primary responsibilities consist of:   

implementing a corporate risk framework, which outlines our approach for managing risk on an enterprise-wide basis;      

developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring, monitoring and controlling those risks identified in the corporate risk framework;

establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels;      

deploying capital on an economic capital basis; and      

reporting on a periodic basis to the Finance and Risk Committee of the Company s Board of Directors; with respect to credit risk, reporting to
the Investment Committee of the Company s Board of Directors; and reporting on various aspects of risk to financial and non-financial senior management committees.      
   Asset/Liability Management.   We actively manage our assets using an approach that balances quality,
diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity, concentration and investment return. The goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that the
assets and liabilities are reasonably managed on a cash flow and duration basis. The ALM process is the shared responsibility of the ALM Unit, Global Risk Management, the Portfolio Management Unit, and the senior members of the business segments and
is governed by the ALM Committees. The ALM Committees  duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the ALM process on a periodic basis. The directives of the
ALM Committees are carried out and monitored through ALM Working Groups which are set up to manage by product type. In addition, an ALM Steering Committee oversees the activities of the underlying ALM Committees.   
         176

Table of Contents  

   We establish target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which
represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund our liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. These strategies are monitored through regular review of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity,
liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality by the ALM Working Groups.        Market Risk Exposures
       We have exposure to market risk through our insurance operations and investment activities. For
purposes of this disclosure,  market risk  is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets.   
   Interest Rates.   Our exposure to interest rate changes results most significantly from our holdings of
fixed maturity securities, as well as our interest rate sensitive liabilities. The fixed maturity securities include U.S. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed and asset-backed
securities, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium- and long-term interest rates. The interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include debt, PABs related to certain investment type contracts, and net embedded
derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium- and long-term interest rates) as fixed maturity securities. We employ product design, pricing and ALM strategies to reduce
the potential effects of interest rate movements. Product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products and the ability to reset crediting rates for certain products. ALM
strategies include the use of derivatives and duration mismatch limits. See  Risk Factors   Economic Environment and Capital Markets-Related Risks   We Are Exposed to Significant Financial and Capital Markets Risk Which May
Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Financial Condition and Liquidity, and May Cause Our Net Investment Income to Vary from Period to Period.        Foreign Currency Exchange Rates.   Our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar results from our holdings in non-U.S. dollar
denominated fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage loans, and certain liabilities, as well as through our investments in foreign subsidiaries. The principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in our investment
portfolios and liabilities are the Euro, the Japanese yen and the British pound. Selectively, we use U.S. dollar assets to support certain long duration foreign currency liabilities. Through our investments in foreign subsidiaries and joint
ventures, we are primarily exposed to the Japanese yen, the British pound, the Australian dollar, the Mexican peso and the Korean won. In addition to hedging with foreign currency swaps, forwards and options, local surplus in some countries is held
entirely or in part in U.S. dollar assets which further minimizes exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. We have matched much of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign
currency assets, thereby reducing our risk to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. See  Risk Factors   Risks Related to Our Business   Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Negatively Affect Our
Profitability.        Equity Market.   We have exposure to equity market risk through certain
liabilities that involve long-term guarantees on equity performance such as net embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits, certain PABs, along with investments in equity securities. We manage this risk on an
integrated basis with other risks through our ALM strategies including the dynamic hedging of certain variable annuity guarantee benefits. We also manage equity market risk exposure in our investment portfolio through the use of derivatives. Equity
exposures associated with other limited partnership interests are excluded from this section as they are not considered financial instruments under GAAP.        Management of Market Risk Exposures        We use a
variety of strategies to manage interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market risk, including the use of derivatives.   
         177

Table of Contents  

    Interest Rate Risk Management.   To manage interest rate
risk, we analyze interest rate risk using various models, including multi-scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivatives. These projections involve evaluating
the potential gain or loss on most of our in-force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. The Department of Financial Services regulations require that we perform some of these analyses annually as part of our
review of the sufficiency of our regulatory reserves. For several of our legal entities, we maintain segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of ALM and the allocation of investment income to product lines. For each segment,
invested assets greater than or equal to the GAAP liabilities and any non-invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess swept to Corporate   Other. The business segments may reflect differences in legal entity,
statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets. Certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general
accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. We measure relative sensitivities of the value of our assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing internal models.
These models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. In addition, these models include asset cash flow projections
reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage loan prepayments and defaults.      Common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in interest rates. In computing the duration of
liabilities, consideration is given to all policyholder guarantees and to how we intend to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. Each asset portfolio has a duration target based on the liability duration and the
investment objectives of that portfolio. Where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, as is the case with certain retirement and group products, we may support such liabilities with equity investments, derivatives or
interest rate curve mismatch strategies.       Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk
Management.   Foreign currency exchange rate risk is assumed primarily in three ways: investments in foreign subsidiaries, purchases of foreign currency denominated investments and the sale of certain insurance products.   

The Foreign Exchange Committee, in coordination with the Treasury Department, is responsible for managing the exposure to investments in foreign
subsidiaries. Limits to exposures are established and monitored by the Treasury Department and managed by the Investments Department.          

The Investments Department is responsible for managing the exposure to foreign currency denominated investments. Exposure limits to unhedged foreign
currency investments are incorporated into the standing authorizations granted to management by the Board of Directors and are reported to the Board of Directors on a periodic basis.      

Management of each of the Company s segments is responsible for establishing limits and managing any foreign currency exchange rate exposure
caused by the sale or issuance of insurance products.         We use foreign currency swaps,
forwards and options to mitigate the liability exposure, risk of loss and the volatility of net income associated with its investments in foreign subsidiaries, foreign currency denominated fixed income investments and the sale of certain insurance
products.       Equity Market Risk Management.   Equity market risk exposure through the issuance
of variable annuities is managed by our Asset/Liability Management Unit in partnership with the Investments Department. Equity market risk is realized through its investment in equity securities and is managed by our Investments Department. We use
derivatives to mitigate our equity exposure both in certain liability guarantees such as variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefit and equity securities. These derivatives include exchange-traded equity futures, equity index options
contracts and equity variance swaps. We also employ reinsurance to manage these exposures.   
         178

Table of Contents  

    Hedging Activities.   We use derivative contracts primarily
to hedge a wide range of risks including interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and equity market risk. Derivative hedges are designed to reduce risk on an economic basis while considering their impact on accounting results and
GAAP and Statutory capital. The construction of our derivative hedge programs vary depending on the type of risk being hedged. Some hedge programs are asset or liability specific while others are portfolio hedges that reduce risk related to a group
of liabilities or assets. Our use of derivatives by major hedge programs is as follows:       

Risks Related to Living Guarantee Benefits   We use a wide range of derivative contracts to hedge the risk associated with variable
annuity living guarantee benefits. These hedges include equity and interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, currency futures/forwards, equity indexed options and interest rate option contracts and equity variance swaps.

Minimum Interest Rate Guarantees   For certain liability contracts, we provide the contractholder a guaranteed minimum interest rate.
These contracts include certain fixed annuities and other insurance liabilities. We purchase interest rate floors to reduce risk associated with these liability guarantees.      

Reinvestment Risk in Long Duration Liability Contracts   Derivatives are used to hedge interest rate risk related to certain long duration
liability contracts, such as deferred annuities. Hedges include zero coupon interest rate swaps and swaptions.          

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk   We use currency swaps, forwards and options to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risk. These
hedges primarily swap foreign currency denominated bonds, investments in foreign subsidiaries or equity market exposures to U.S. dollars.          

General ALM Hedging Strategies   In the ordinary course of managing our asset/liability risks, we use interest rate futures, interest rate
swaps, interest rate caps, interest rate floors and inflation swaps. These hedges are designed to reduce interest rate risk or inflation risk related to the existing assets or liabilities or related to expected future cash flows.
          Risk Measurement: Sensitivity Analysis     
  We measure market risk related to our market sensitive assets and liabilities based on changes in interest rates, equity
market prices and foreign currency exchange rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis. This analysis estimates the potential changes in estimated fair value based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity market
prices and foreign currency exchange rates. We believe that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near-term. In performing the analysis summarized below, we use market rates at
December 31, 2012. The sensitivity analysis separately calculates each of our market risk exposures (interest rate, equity market and foreign currency exchange rate) relating to our trading and non-trading assets and liabilities. We modeled the
impact of changes in market rates and prices on the estimated fair values of our market sensitive assets and liabilities as follows:       

the net present values of its interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates;

the U.S. dollar equivalent estimated fair values of our foreign currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in foreign
currency exchange rates; and          

the estimated fair value of its equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity market prices.      
         179

Table of Contents  

   The sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as
predictive of our future financial performance. We cannot ensure that our actual losses in any particular period will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. Limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include:   

the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the
impact of prepayment rates on mortgage loans;          

for the derivatives that qualify as hedges, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values;

the analysis excludes liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts and real estate holdings; and      

the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the period.      
  Accordingly, we use such models as tools and not as substitutes for the experience and judgment of our management. Based
on our analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, we have determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the estimated fair value of certain assets and liabilities from interest
rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market exposures.      The table below illustrates the potential
loss in estimated fair value for each market risk exposure of our market sensitive assets and liabilities at December 31, 2012:       
 
         180

Table of Contents  

    Sensitivity Analysis: Interest Rates.   The table below
provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our trading and non-trading interest sensitive financial instruments at December 31, 2012 by type of asset or liability:   

181

Table of Contents  

(1)  
    Separate account assets and liabilities and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and associated PABs, which are interest rate sensitive,
are not included herein as any interest rate risk is borne by the contractholder. Mortgage loans and long-term debt exclude $2.7 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, related to CSEs. See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for information regarding CSEs.          

(2)  
    Embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract.      

(3)  
    Excludes $207.8 billion of liabilities at carrying value pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other
policy-related balances. These liabilities would economically offset a significant portion of the net change in fair value of our financial instruments resulting from a 10% increase in the yield curve.      
  Interest rate risk has increased by $1.7 billion, or 40%, to $6.0 billion at December 31, 2012 from
$4.3 billion at December 31, 2011. The increase in risk is primarily driven by increases in net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts of $1.2 billion, the net asset and liability bases of $311 million, the overall yield
impact of $102 million and the impact of derivatives of $57 million.   
         182

Table of Contents  

    Sensitivity Analysis:  Foreign Currency Exchange Rates . The
table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our portfolio due to a 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates at December 31, 2012 by type of asset or liability:   

183

Table of Contents  

(1)  
    Does not necessarily represent those financial instruments solely subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk. Separate account assets and
liabilities and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and associated PABs, which are foreign currency exchange rate sensitive, are not included herein as any foreign currency exchange rate risk is borne by the contractholder. Mortgage
loans and long-term debt exclude $2.7 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, related to CSEs. See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding CSEs.      

(2)  
    Excludes $207.8 billion of liabilities at carrying value pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other
policy-related balances. These liabilities would economically offset a significant portion of the net change in fair value of our financial instruments resulting from a 10% increase in the foreign currency exchange rates.

(3)  
    Embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract.      
  Foreign currency exchange rate risk increased by $1.6 billion, to $6.6 billion at December 31, 2012 from $5.0
billion at December 31, 2011. This change was due to an increase in exchange rate risk relating to fixed maturity securities and equity securities (including FVO and trading securities), mortgage loans, cash and cash equivalents, other invested
assets, net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts and PABs. Our exposure increased primarily due to the Australian dollar and the Japanese yen.   
         184

Table of Contents  

    Sensitivity Analysis:    Equity Market
Prices.  The table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our portfolio due to a 10% change in equity at December 31, 2012 by type of asset or liability:   

(1)  
    Does not necessarily represent those financial instruments solely subject to equity price risk. Additionally, separate account assets and
liabilities and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and associated PABs, which are equity market sensitive, are not included herein as any equity market risk is borne by the contractholder.      

(2)  
    Embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract.      
  Equity price risk increased by $282 million to $319 million at December 31, 2012 from $37 million at
December 31, 2011. This increase is primarily due to a change in the portfolio composition of derivatives we employ.   
         185

Table of Contents  

      Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
         Index to Consolidated Financial Statements, Notes and Schedules    

186

Table of Contents  

      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
      To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of      MetLife, Inc.:      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2012. Our audits also included the financial statement schedules listed in the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules are the
responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules based on our audits.   
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, such consolidated
financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2012, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.      We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2012, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and our report, dated February 26, 2013 expressed an
unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting.      / S / DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   
  DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   
  New York, New York      February 26, 2013   
         187

Table of Contents  

      MetLife, Inc.    
    Consolidated Balance Sheets    
    December 31, 2012 and 2011        (In millions, except share and per share data)    
 
    See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.    
         188

Table of Contents  

      MetLife, Inc.    
    Consolidated Statements of Operations    
    For the Years Ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010    
   (In millions, except per share data)        
 
    See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.    
         189

Table of Contents  

      MetLife, Inc.    
    Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income    
    For the Years Ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010    
   (In millions)        

(1)  
    Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests and net income (loss) exclude gains (losses) of redeemable noncontrolling interests in
partially-owned consolidated subsidiaries of $9 million, ($13) million and ($2) million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.      
   See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.    
         190

Table of Contents  

      MetLife, Inc.    
    Consolidated Statements of Equity    
    For the Year Ended December 31, 2012        (In millions)        

(1)  
    Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests excludes gains (losses) of redeemable noncontrolling interests in partially-owned
consolidated subsidiaries of $9 million.          See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.
   
         191

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Consolidated Statements of Equity   (Continued)        For the Year Ended December 31, 2011       (In millions)    

(1)  
    Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests excludes gains (losses) of redeemable noncontrolling interests in partially-owned
consolidated subsidiaries of ($13) million.          See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial
statements.    
         192

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Consolidated Statements of Equity   (Continued)        For the Year Ended December 31, 2010       (In millions)    

(1)  
    Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests excludes gains (losses) of redeemable noncontrolling interests in partially-owned
consolidated subsidiaries of ($2) million.          See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial
statements.    
         193

Table of Contents  

      MetLife, Inc.    
    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    
    For the Years Ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010    
   (In millions)        
     See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.    
         194

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   (Continued)        For the Years Ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010        (In millions)

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.    
         195

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements    
      1.  Business, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies    
     Business         MetLife  or the  Company  refers to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999, its subsidiaries and affiliates. MetLife is a leading global provider of insurance,
annuities and employee benefit programs throughout the United States, Japan, Latin America, Asia, Europe and the Middle East. MetLife offers life insurance, annuities, property   casualty insurance, and other financial services to
individuals, as well as group insurance and retirement   savings products and services to corporations and other institutions.      MetLife is organized into six segments: Retail; Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits; Corporate Benefit Funding; and Latin America (collectively, the  Americas  Asia; and Europe, the
Middle East and Africa ( EMEA ).   
     Basis of Presentation     
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America ( GAAP ) requires management to adopt accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. In applying these policies and estimates, management makes
subjective and complex judgments that frequently require assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain. Many of these policies, estimates and related judgments are common in the insurance and financial services industries; others are
specific to the Company s business and operations. Actual results could differ from estimates.   
      Consolidation      
   The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries, as well as partnerships and joint ventures in which the Company has control, and variable interest entities ( VIEs ) for which the Company is the primary beneficiary. Intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated.   

   Certain international subsidiaries have a fiscal year-end of November 30.
Accordingly, the Company s consolidated financial statements reflect the assets and liabilities of such subsidiaries as of November 30, 2012 and 2011 and the operating results of such subsidiaries for the years ended November 30,
2012, 2011 and 2010.   

      Discontinued Operations      
  The results of operations of a component of the Company that has either been disposed of or is classified as
held-for-sale are reported in discontinued operations if certain criteria are met. In order to qualify for a discontinued operation, the operations and cash flows of the component have been or will be eliminated from the ongoing operations of the
Company, and the Company will not have any significant continuing involvement in the operations of the component after the disposal transaction.   

         196

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

      Separate Accounts      
  Separate accounts are established in conformity with insurance laws and are generally not chargeable with liabilities that
arise from any other business of the Company. Separate account assets are subject to general account claims only to the extent the value of such assets exceeds the separate account liabilities. The Company reports separately, as assets and
liabilities, investments held in separate accounts and liabilities of the separate accounts if:       

such separate accounts are legally recognized;      

assets supporting the contract liabilities are legally insulated from the Company s general account liabilities;      

investments are directed by the contractholder; and      

all investment performance, net of contract fees and assessments, is passed through to the contractholder.      
  The Company reports separate account assets at their fair value which is based on the estimated fair values of the
underlying assets comprising the individual separate account portfolios. Investment performance (including investment income, net investment gains (losses) and changes in unrealized gains (losses)) and the corresponding amounts credited to
contractholders of such separate accounts are offset within the same line in the consolidated statements of operations. Separate accounts credited with a contractual investment return are combined on a line-by-line basis with the Company s
general account assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the accounting for these investments is consistent with the methodologies described herein for similar financial instruments held within the general account. Unit-linked separate account
investments that are directed by contractholders but do not meet one or more of the other above criteria are included in fair value option ( FVO ) and trading securities.   
  The Company s revenues reflect fees charged to the separate accounts, including mortality charges, risk charges,
policy administration fees, investment management fees and surrender charges. Such fees are included in universal life and investment-type product policy fees in the consolidated statements of operations.   
      Reclassifications      
  Certain amounts in the prior years  consolidated financial statements and related footnotes thereto have been
reclassified to conform with the current year presentation as discussed throughout the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         197

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies     
  The following are the Company s significant accounting policies with references to notes providing additional
information on such policies and critical accounting estimates relating to such policies.       

Accounting Policy    
     
   Note    
 
    Insurance   
     
  4   
 
    Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs, Value
of Business Acquired and Other Policy-Related Intangibles   
     
  5   
 
    Reinsurance   
     
  6   
 
    Investments   
     
  8   
 
    Derivatives   
     
  9   
 
    Fair Value   
     
  10   
 
    Goodwill   
     
  11   
 
    Employee Benefit Plans   
     
  18   
 
    Income Tax   
     
  19   
 
    Litigation Contingencies   

21   
       Insurance      
     Future Policy Benefit Liabilities and
Policyholder Account Balances        The Company establishes liabilities for amounts payable under insurance
policies. Generally, amounts are payable over an extended period of time and related liabilities are calculated as the present value of future expected benefits to be paid reduced by the present value of future expected premiums. Such liabilities
are established based on methods and underlying assumptions in accordance with GAAP and applicable actuarial standards. Principal assumptions used in the establishment of liabilities for future policy benefits are mortality, morbidity, policy lapse,
renewal, retirement, disability incidence, disability terminations, investment returns, inflation, expenses and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective product type and geographical area. These assumptions are established at the
time the policy is issued and are intended to estimate the experience for the period the policy benefits are payable. Utilizing these assumptions, liabilities are established on a block of business basis. For long duration insurance contracts,
assumptions such as mortality, morbidity and interest rates are  locked in  upon the issuance of new business. However, significant adverse changes in experience on such contracts may require the establishment of premium deficiency
reserves. Such reserves are determined based on the then current assumptions and do not include a provision for adverse deviation.      Premium deficiency reserves may also be established for short duration contracts to provide for expected future losses. These reserves are based on actuarial estimates of the amount of loss inherent in
that period, including losses incurred for which claims have not been reported. The provisions for unreported claims are calculated using studies that measure the historical length of time between the incurred date of a claim and its eventual
reporting to the Company. Anticipated investment income is considered in the calculation of premium deficiency losses for short duration contracts.      Liabilities for universal and variable life secondary guarantees and paid-up guarantees are determined by estimating the expected value of death benefits payable when the account balance is projected to
be zero and recognizing those benefits ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. The assumptions used in estimating the secondary and paid-up guarantee liabilities are consistent with those used for
  
         198

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs ( DAC ), and are thus subject to the same variability and risk as further discussed herein. The assumptions of investment performance and
volatility for variable products are consistent with historical experience of appropriate underlying equity indices, such as the Standard   Poor s Ratings Services ( S P ) 500 Index. The benefits used in calculating the
liabilities are based on the average benefits payable over a range of scenarios.      The Company regularly
reviews its estimates of liabilities for future policy benefits and compares them with its actual experience. Differences result in changes to the liability balances with related charges or credits to benefit expenses in the period in which the
changes occur.      Policyholder account balances ( PABs ) relate to contract or contract features where
the Company has no significant insurance risk.   

   The Company issues directly
and assumes through reinsurance certain variable annuity products with guaranteed minimum benefits that provide the policyholder a minimum return based on their initial deposit (i.e., the benefit base) less withdrawals. These guarantees are
accounted for as insurance liabilities or as embedded derivatives depending on how and when the benefit is paid. Specifically, a guarantee is accounted for as an embedded derivative if a guarantee is paid without requiring (i) the occurrence of
specific insurable event, or (ii) the policyholder to annuitize. Alternatively, a guarantee is accounted for as an insurance liability if the guarantee is paid only upon either (i) the occurrence of a specific insurable event, or
(ii) annuitization. In certain cases, a guarantee may have elements of both an insurance liability and an embedded derivative and in such cases the guarantee is split and accounted for under both models.   
  Guarantees accounted for as insurance liabilities in future policy benefits include guaranteed minimum death benefits
( GMDB ), the portion of guaranteed minimum income benefits ( GMIB ) that require annuitization, and the life-contingent portion of guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits ( GMWB ).   
  Guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives in PABs include the non life-contingent portion of GMWB, guaranteed
minimum accumulation benefits ( GMAB ) and the portion of GMIB that do not require annuitization. At inception, the Company attributes to the embedded derivative a portion of the projected future guarantee fees to be collected from the
policyholder equal to the present value of projected future guaranteed benefits. Any additional fees represent  excess  fees and are reported in universal life and investment-type product policy fees.   

     Other Policy-Related Balances     
  Other policy-related balances include policy and contract claims, unearned revenue liabilities, premiums received in
advance, policyholder dividends due and unpaid, policyholder dividends left on deposit and negative VOBA.      The
liability for policy and contract claims generally relates to incurred but not reported death, disability, long-term care ( LTC ) and dental claims, as well as claims which have been reported but not yet settled. The liability for these
claims is based on the Company s estimated ultimate cost of settling all claims. The Company derives estimates for the development of incurred but not reported claims principally from analyses of historical patterns of claims by business line.
The methods used to determine these estimates are continually reviewed. Adjustments resulting from this continuous review process and differences between estimates and payments for claims are recognized in policyholder benefits and claims expense in
the period in which the estimates are changed or payments are made.   
         199

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The unearned revenue liability relates to universal life-type and
investment-type products and represents policy charges for services to be provided in future periods. The charges are deferred as unearned revenue and amortized using the product s estimated gross profits and margins, similar to DAC as
discussed further herein. Such amortization is recorded in universal life and investment-type product policy fees.      The Company accounts for the prepayment of premiums on its individual life, group life and health contracts as premium received in advance and applies the cash received to premiums when due.   
   See    Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs, Value of Business Acquired and Other
Policy-Related Intangibles  for a discussion of negative VOBA.   
     Recognition of Insurance Revenues and Deposits
       Premiums related to traditional life, annuity policies with life contingencies, long-duration accident
and health, and credit insurance policies are recognized as revenues when due from policyholders. Policyholder benefits and expenses are provided to recognize profits over the estimated lives of the insurance policies. When premiums are due over a
significantly shorter period than the period over which benefits are provided, any excess profit is deferred and recognized into earnings in a constant relationship to insurance in-force or, for annuities, the amount of expected future policy
benefit payments.      Premiums related to short-duration non-medical health and disability, accident and health,
and certain credit insurance contracts are recognized on a pro rata basis over the applicable contract term.   
  Deposits related to universal life-type and investment-type products are credited to PABs. Revenues from such contracts
consist of fees for mortality, policy administration and surrender charges and are recorded in universal life and investment-type product policy fees in the period in which services are provided. Amounts that are charged to earnings include interest
credited and benefit claims incurred in excess of related PABs.      Premiums related to property and casualty
contracts are recognized as revenue on a pro rata basis over the applicable contract term. Unearned premiums, representing the portion of premium written related to the unexpired coverage, are also included in future policy benefits.   
  Premiums, policy fees, policyholder benefits and expenses are presented net of reinsurance.   

      Deferred Policy Acquisition
Costs, Value of Business Acquired and Other Policy-Related Intangibles         The Company incurs
significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. Costs that are related directly to the successful acquisition or renewal of insurance contracts are capitalized as DAC. Such costs include:   

incremental direct costs of contract acquisition, such as commissions;      

the portion of an employee s total compensation and benefits related to time spent selling, underwriting or processing the issuance of new and
renewal insurance business only with respect to actual policies acquired or renewed;      

other essential direct costs that would not have been incurred had a policy not been acquired or renewed; and      

in limited circumstances, the costs of direct-response advertising, the primary purpose of which is to elicit sales to customers who could be shown
to have responded specifically to the advertising and that results in probable future benefits.      
         200

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   All other acquisition-related costs, including those related to general
advertising and solicitation, market research, agent training, product development, unsuccessful sales and underwriting efforts, as well as all indirect costs, are expensed as incurred.   
  Value of business acquired ( VOBA ) is an intangible asset resulting from a business combination that
represents the excess of book value over the estimated fair value of acquired insurance, annuity, and investment-type contracts in-force at the acquisition date. The estimated fair value of the acquired liabilities is based on projections, by each
block of business, of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment returns, nonperformance risk adjustment and other factors. Actual experience on the
purchased business may vary from these projections.      DAC and VOBA are amortized as follows:   

Products:   
     
    In proportion to the following over
estimated lives of the contracts:    
 
      Non-participating and non-dividend-paying traditional
contracts:   
     
  Historic actual and expected future gross premiums.   
 
      Term insurance   

Non-participating whole life insurance   

Traditional group life insurance   

Non-medical health insurance   

Accident and health insurance   

Participating,
dividend-paying traditional contracts   
     
  Actual and expected future gross margins.   
 
      Fixed and variable universal life contracts   
     
  Actual and expected future gross profits.   
 
      Fixed and variable deferred
annuity contracts   

Credit insurance contracts   
     
  Historic and future earned premium.   
 
      Property and casualty insurance contracts   

Other short-duration
contracts   

See Note 5 for additional information on DAC and VOBA amortization.   
  The recovery of DAC and VOBA is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. DAC and VOBA are
aggregated in the consolidated financial statements for reporting purposes.   

   The Company generally has two different types of sales
inducements which are included in other assets: (i) the policyholder receives a bonus whereby the policyholder s initial account balance is increased by an amount equal to a specified percentage of the customer s deposit; and
(ii) the policyholder receives a higher interest rate using a dollar cost averaging method than would have been received based on the normal general account interest rate credited. The Company defers sales inducements and amortizes them over
the life of the policy using the same methodology and assumptions used to amortize DAC. The amortization of sales inducements is included in policyholder benefits and claims. Each year, or more frequently if circumstances indicate a potential
recoverability issue exists, the Company reviews deferred sales inducements to determine the recoverability of the asset.   

   Value of distribution agreements acquired ( VODA )
is reported in other assets and represents the present value of expected future profits associated with the expected future business derived from the distribution agreements acquired as part of a business combination. Value of customer relationships
acquired ( VOCRA ) is   
         201

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
also reported in other assets and represents the present value of the expected future profits associated with the expected future business acquired through existing customers of the acquired
company or business. The VODA and VOCRA associated with past business combinations are amortized over useful lives ranging from 10 to 40 years and such amortization is included in other expenses. Each year, or more frequently if circumstances
indicate a possible impairment exists, the Company reviews VODA and VOCRA to determine whether the asset is impaired.   

   For certain acquired blocks of business, the estimated fair
value of the in-force contract obligations exceeded the book value of assumed in-force insurance policy liabilities, resulting in negative VOBA, which is presented separately from VOBA as an additional insurance liability. The fair value of the
in-force contract obligations is based on projections by each block of business. Negative VOBA is amortized over the policy period in proportion to the approximate consumption of losses included in the liability usually expressed in terms of
insurance in-force or account value. Such amortization is recorded as a contra-expense in other expenses.   

      Reinsurance      
  For each of its reinsurance agreements, the Company determines whether the agreement provides indemnification against loss
or liability relating to insurance risk in accordance with applicable accounting standards. Cessions under reinsurance agreements do not discharge the Company s obligations as the primary insurer. The Company reviews all contractual features,
particularly those that may limit the amount of insurance risk to which the reinsurer is subject or features that delay the timely reimbursement of claims.      For reinsurance of existing in-force blocks of long-duration contracts that transfer significant insurance risk, the difference, if any, between the amounts paid (received), and the liabilities ceded
(assumed) related to the underlying contracts is considered the net cost of reinsurance at the inception of the reinsurance agreement. The net cost of reinsurance is recorded as an adjustment to DAC and recognized as a component of other expenses on
a basis consistent with the way the acquisition costs on the underlying reinsured contracts would be recognized. Subsequent amounts paid (received) on the reinsurance of in-force blocks, as well as amounts paid (received) related to new business,
are recorded as ceded (assumed) premiums and ceded (assumed) future policy benefit liabilities are established.   
  For prospective reinsurance of short-duration contracts that meet the criteria for reinsurance accounting, amounts paid
(received) are recorded as ceded (assumed) premiums and ceded (assumed) unearned premiums and are reflected as a component of premiums, reinsurance and other receivables (future policy benefits). Such amounts are amortized through earned premiums
over the remaining contract period in proportion to the amount of insurance protection provided. For retroactive reinsurance of short-duration contracts that meet the criteria of reinsurance accounting, amounts paid (received) in excess of the
related insurance liabilities ceded (assumed) are recognized immediately as a loss and are reported in the appropriate line item within the statement of operations. Any gain on such retroactive agreement is deferred and is amortized as part of DAC,
primarily using the recovery method.      Ceded policyholder and contract related liabilities, other than those
currently due, are reported gross on the balance sheet.      Amounts currently recoverable under reinsurance
agreements are included in premiums, reinsurance and other receivables and amounts currently payable are included in other liabilities. Assets and liabilities relating to reinsurance agreements with the same reinsurer may be recorded net on the
balance sheet, if a right of offset exists within the reinsurance agreement. In the event that reinsurers do not meet their obligations to the Company under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, reinsurance recoverable balances could become
uncollectible. In such instances, reinsurance recoverable balances are stated net of allowances for uncollectible reinsurance.   
         202

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Premiums, fees and policyholder benefits and claims include amounts
assumed under reinsurance agreements and are net of reinsurance ceded. Amounts received from reinsurers for policy administration are reported in other revenues. With respect to GMIB, a portion of the directly written GMIB is accounted for as
insurance liabilities, but the associated reinsurance agreements contain embedded derivatives. These embedded derivatives are included in premiums, reinsurance and other receivables with changes in estimated fair value reported in policyholder
benefits and claims.      If the Company determines that a reinsurance agreement does not expose the reinsurer to
a reasonable possibility of a significant loss from insurance risk, the Company records the agreement using the deposit method of accounting. Deposits received are included in other liabilities and deposits made are included within premiums,
reinsurance and other receivables. As amounts are paid or received, consistent with the underlying contracts, the deposit assets or liabilities are adjusted. Interest on such deposits is recorded as other revenues or other expenses, as appropriate.
Periodically, the Company evaluates the adequacy of the expected payments or recoveries and adjusts the deposit asset or liability through other revenues or other expenses, as appropriate.   

      Investments      
    Net Investment Income     
  Income on investments is reported within net investment income, unless otherwise stated herein.
       Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities     
  The majority of the Company s fixed maturity and equity securities are classified as
available-for-sale ( AFS ) and are reported at their estimated fair value. Unrealized investment gains and losses on these securities are recorded as a separate component of other comprehensive income (loss) ( OCI ), net of
policyholder-related amounts and deferred income taxes. All security transactions are recorded on a trade date basis. Investment gains and losses on sales are determined on a specific identification basis.   
  Interest income on fixed maturity securities is recognized when earned using an effective yield method
giving effect to amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts. Prepayment fees are recognized when earned. Dividends on equity securities are recognized when declared.   
  The Company periodically evaluates fixed maturity and equity securities for impairment. The assessment of
whether impairments have occurred is based on management s case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in estimated fair value and an analysis of the gross unrealized losses by severity and/or age. The analysis of gross
unrealized losses is described further in Note 8    Evaluation of AFS Securities for OTTI and Evaluating Temporarily Impaired AFS Securities.    
  For fixed maturity securities in an unrealized loss position, an other-than-temporary impairment
( OTTI ) is recognized in earnings when it is anticipated that the amortized cost will not be recovered. When either: (i) the Company has the intent to sell the security; or (ii) it is more likely than not that the Company will
be required to sell the security before recovery, the OTTI recognized in earnings is the entire difference between the security s amortized cost and estimated fair value. If neither of these conditions exist, the difference between the
amortized cost of the security and the present value of projected future cash flows expected to be collected is recognized as an OTTI in earnings ( credit loss ). If the estimated fair value is less than the present value of projected
future cash flows expected to be collected, this portion of OTTI related to other-than-credit factors ( noncredit loss ) is recorded in OCI. Adjustments are not made for subsequent recoveries in value.   
         203

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   With respect to equity securities, the Company considers
in its OTTI analysis its intent and ability to hold a particular equity security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its estimated fair value to an amount equal to or greater than cost. If a sale decision is made for an
equity security and recovery to an amount at least equal to cost prior to the sale is not expected, the security will be deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired in the period that the sale decision was made and an OTTI loss will be recorded in
earnings. The OTTI loss recognized is the entire difference between the security s cost and its estimated fair value with a corresponding charge to earnings.        Fair Value Option and Trading Securities        FVO and trading securities are stated at estimated fair value and include investments for which the FVO has been elected ( FVO Securities ) and investments that are actively purchased and sold
( Actively Traded Securities ). FVO Securities include:       

fixed maturity and equity securities held-for-investment by the general account to support asset and liability matching strategies for certain
insurance products;      

contractholder-directed investments supporting unit-linked variable annuity type liabilities which do not qualify for presentation and reporting as
separate account summary total assets and liabilities. These investments are primarily mutual funds and, to a lesser extent, fixed maturity and equity securities, short-term investments and cash and cash equivalents. The investment returns on these
investments inure to contractholders and are offset by a corresponding change in PABs through interest credited to policyholder account balances; and      

securities held by consolidated securitization entities ( CSEs ) (former qualifying special purpose entities), with changes in estimated
fair value subsequent to consolidation included in net investment gains (losses).         Actively Traded Securities principally include fixed maturity securities and short sale agreement liabilities, which are included in other liabilities.   
  Changes in estimated fair value of these securities subsequent to purchase are included in net investment
income, except for certain securities included in FVO Securities where changes are included in net investment gains (losses).   
    Mortgage Loans        The Company disaggregates its mortgage loan investments into three portfolio segments: commercial, agricultural, and residential. The accounting and valuation allowance policies that are applicable to all
portfolio segments are presented below and policies related to each of the portfolio segments are included in Note 8.   
    Mortgage Loans Held-For-Investment     
  Mortgage loans held-for-investment are stated at unpaid principal balance, adjusted for any unamortized
premium or discount, deferred fees or expenses, and are net of valuation allowances. Interest income and prepayment fees are recognized when earned. Interest is accrued on the principal amount of the loan based on the loan s contractual
interest rate, while amortization of premiums and discounts is recognized using the effective yield method. Gains and losses from sales of loans and increases or decreases to valuation allowances are recorded in net investment gains (losses).
  
         204

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Also included in mortgage loans held-for-investment are
commercial mortgage loans held by CSEs for which the FVO was elected. These loans are stated at estimated fair value with changes in estimated fair value subsequent to consolidation recognized in net investment gains (losses).   
    Mortgage Loans Held-For-Sale     
  Mortgage loans held-for-sale includes three categories of mortgage loans:   

Residential mortgage loans   held-for-sale - FVO.  Forward and reverse residential mortgage loans originated with the intent to
sell, for which the FVO was elected, are carried at estimated fair value. Subsequent changes in estimated fair value are recognized in other revenues.      

Mortgage loans   held-for-sale   lower of amortized cost or estimated fair value.  Mortgage loans originated with the intent to
sell for which FVO was not elected, certain repurchased mortgage loans, and mortgage loans that were previously designated as held-for-investment, but now are designated as held-for-sale, are stated at the lower of amortized cost or estimated fair
value.          

Securitized reverse residential mortgage loans.  Reverse residential mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell which have been
transferred into Government National Mortgage Association securitizations, for which the FVO was elected, are stated at estimated fair value. The FVO was elected for certain loans and the corresponding secured borrowing, which is included within
other liabilities. Subsequent changes in estimated fair value of both the asset and liability are recognized in other revenues.           Policy Loans        Policy loans are
stated at unpaid principal balances. Interest income on such loans is recorded as earned using the contractual interest rate. Generally, accrued interest is capitalized on the policy s anniversary date. Valuation allowances are not established
for policy loans, as they are fully collateralized by the cash surrender value of the underlying insurance policies. Any unpaid principal or interest on the loan is deducted from the cash surrender value or the death benefit prior to settlement of
the insurance policy.        Real Estate    
  Real estate held-for-investment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided
on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset (typically 20 to 55 years). Rental income associated with such real estate is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the respective leases. The Company
periodically reviews its real estate held-for-investment for impairment and tests for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable and exceeds its estimated fair value. Properties
whose carrying values are greater than their undiscounted cash flows are written down to their estimated fair value, which is generally computed using the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the
underlying risks.      Real estate for which the Company commits to a plan to sell within one year
and actively markets in its current condition for a reasonable price in comparison to its estimated fair value is classified as held for sale. Real estate held-for-sale is stated at the lower of depreciated cost or estimated fair value less expected
disposition costs and is not depreciated.      Real estate acquired upon foreclosure is recorded
at the lower of estimated fair value or the carrying value of the mortgage loan at the date of foreclosure.   
         205

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Real Estate Joint Ventures and Other Limited Partnership Interests
       The Company uses the equity method of accounting for investments in real estate joint
ventures and other limited partnership interests in which it has more than a minor ownership interest or more than a minor influence over the joint venture s or partnership s operations, but does not have a controlling financial interest.
Equity method investment income is recognized as earned by the investee. The Company records its share of earnings using a three-month lag methodology for instances where the timely financial information is not available and the contractual
agreements provide for the delivery of the investees  financial information after the end of the Company s reporting period.      The Company uses the cost method of accounting for investments in which it has virtually no influence over the joint venture s or the partnership s operations. Based on the nature and structure
of these investments, they do not meet the characteristics of an equity security in accordance with applicable accounting standards. The Company recognizes distributions on cost method investments as earned or received.   
  In addition to the investees performing regular evaluations for the impairment of underlying investments,
the Company routinely evaluates these investments for impairments. For equity method investees, the Company considers financial and other information provided by the investee, other known information and inherent risks in the underlying investments,
as well as future capital commitments, in determining whether an impairment has occurred. The Company considers its cost method investments for OTTI when the carrying value of such investments exceeds the net asset value ( NAV ). The
Company takes into consideration the severity and duration of this excess when determining whether the cost method investment is other-than-temporarily impaired. When an OTTI has occurred, the impairment loss is recorded within net investment gains
(losses).        Short-term Investments     
  Short-term investments include securities and other investments with remaining maturities of one year or
less, but greater than three months, at the time of purchase and are stated at estimated fair value or amortized cost, which approximates estimated fair value.        Other Invested Assets        Other
invested assets consist principally of the following:       

Freestanding derivatives with positive estimated fair values are described in    Derivatives  below.

Tax credit partnerships derive their primary source of investment return in the form of income tax credits. Where tax credits are guaranteed by a
creditworthy third party, the investment is accounted for under the effective yield method. Otherwise, the investment is accounted for under the equity method.      

Leveraged leases are recorded net of non-recourse debt. The Company recognizes income on the leveraged leases by applying the leveraged lease s
estimated rate of return to the net investment in the lease. The Company regularly reviews residual values and impairs them to expected values.      

Funds withheld represent a receivable for amounts contractually withheld by ceding companies in accordance with reinsurance agreements. The Company
recognizes interest on funds withheld at rates defined by the terms of the agreement which may be contractually specified or directly related to the underlying investments.      

Joint venture investments that engage in insurance underwriting activities are accounted for under the equity method.      

Mortgage Servicing Rights ( MSRs ) are measured at estimated fair value with changes in fair value reported in other revenues in the
period in which the change occurs.      
         206

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Securities Lending Program     
  Securities lending transactions, whereby blocks of securities, which are included in fixed maturity securities, equity
securities, and short-term investments, are loaned to third parties, primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks, and are treated as financing arrangements and the associated liability is recorded at the amount of cash received. The Company
obtains collateral at the inception of the loan, usually cash, in an amount generally equal to 102% of the estimated fair value of the securities loaned, and maintains it at a level greater than or equal to 100% for the duration of the loan. The
Company is liable to return to the counterparties the cash collateral received. Security collateral on deposit from counterparties in connection with the securities lending transactions may not be sold or repledged, unless the counterparty is in
default, and is not reflected in the consolidated financial statements. The Company monitors the estimated fair value of the securities loaned on a daily basis with additional collateral obtained as necessary. Income and expenses associated with
securities lending transactions are reported as investment income and investment expense, respectively, within net investment income.   

      Derivatives      
    Freestanding Derivatives        Freestanding derivatives are carried in the Company s consolidated balance sheets either as assets within other invested assets or as liabilities within other liabilities at estimated fair value. The
Company does not offset the fair value amounts recognized for derivatives executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting agreement.      Accruals on derivatives are generally recorded in accrued investment income or within other liabilities. However, accruals that are not scheduled to settle within one year are included with the
derivatives carrying value in other invested assets or other liabilities.      If a derivative is not designated
as an accounting hedge or its use in managing risk does not qualify for hedge accounting, changes in the estimated fair value of the derivative are reported in net derivative gains (losses) except as follows:   

Statement of Operations Presentation:   

Derivative:    

Policyholder benefits and claims   

Economic hedges of variable annuity guarantees included in future
policy benefits    
 
    Net investment income   

Economic hedges of equity method investments in joint ventures    

All derivatives held in relation to trading portfolios    

Derivatives held within contractholder-directed unit-linked
investments    
 
    Other
revenues   

Derivatives held in connection with the Company s mortgage
banking activities    
 
    Other
expenses   

Economic hedges of foreign currency exchange rate exposure related
to the Company s international subsidiaries    
 
         207

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Hedge Accounting     
  To qualify for hedge accounting, at the inception of the hedging relationship, the Company formally documents its risk
management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedging transaction, as well as its designation of the hedge. Hedge designation and financial statement presentation of changes in estimated fair value of the hedging derivatives are as follows:

Fair value hedge  (a hedge of the estimated fair value of a recognized asset or liability) - in net derivative gains (losses), consistent with
the change in fair value of the hedged item attributable to the designated risk being hedged.      

Cash flow hedge  (a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset
or liability) - effectiveness in OCI (deferred gains or losses on the derivative are reclassified into the consolidated statement of operations when the Company s earnings are affected by the variability in cash flows of the hedged item);
ineffectiveness in net derivative gains (losses).      

Net investment in a foreign operation hedge  - effectiveness in OCI, consistent with the translation adjustment for the hedged net investment
in the foreign operation; ineffectiveness in net derivative gains (losses).         The change in
estimated fair values of the hedging derivatives are exclusive of any accruals that are separately reported in the consolidated statement of operations within interest income or interest expense to match the location of the hedged item. Accruals on
derivatives in net investment hedges are recognized in OCI.      In its hedge documentation, the Company sets
forth how the hedging instrument is expected to hedge the designated risks related to the hedged item and sets forth the method that will be used to retrospectively and prospectively assess the hedging instrument s effectiveness and the method
that will be used to measure ineffectiveness. A derivative designated as a hedging instrument must be assessed as being highly effective in offsetting the designated risk of the hedged item. Hedge effectiveness is formally assessed at inception and
at least quarterly throughout the life of the designated hedging relationship. Assessments of hedge effectiveness and measurements of ineffectiveness are also subject to interpretation and estimation and different interpretations or estimates may
have a material effect on the amount reported in net income.      The Company discontinues hedge accounting
prospectively when: (i) it is determined that the derivative is no longer highly effective in offsetting changes in the estimated fair value or cash flows of a hedged item; (ii) the derivative expires, is sold, terminated, or exercised;
(iii) it is no longer probable that the hedged forecasted transaction will occur; or (iv) the derivative is de-designated as a hedging instrument.      When hedge accounting is discontinued because it is determined that the derivative is not highly effective in offsetting changes in the estimated fair value or cash flows of a hedged item, the derivative
continues to be carried in the consolidated balance sheets at its estimated fair value, with changes in estimated fair value recognized in net derivative gains (losses). The carrying value of the hedged recognized asset or liability under a fair
value hedge is no longer adjusted for changes in its estimated fair value due to the hedged risk, and the cumulative adjustment to its carrying value is amortized into income over the remaining life of the hedged item. Provided the hedged forecasted
transaction is still probable of occurrence, the changes in estimated fair value of derivatives recorded in OCI related to discontinued cash flow hedges are released into the consolidated statements of operations when the Company s earnings are
affected by the variability in cash flows of the hedged item.      When hedge accounting is discontinued because
it is no longer probable that the forecasted transactions will occur on the anticipated date or within two months of that date, the derivative continues to be carried in the consolidated balance sheets at its estimated fair value, with changes in
estimated fair value recognized currently   
         208

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
in net derivative gains (losses). Deferred gains and losses of a derivative recorded in OCI pursuant to the discontinued cash flow hedge of a forecasted transaction that is no longer probable are
recognized immediately in net derivative gains (losses).      In all other situations in which hedge accounting is
discontinued, the derivative is carried at its estimated fair value in the consolidated balance sheets, with changes in its estimated fair value recognized in the current period as net derivative gains (losses).   
    Embedded Derivatives        The Company sells variable annuities and purchases certain investments that contain embedded derivatives. The Company assesses each identified embedded derivative to determine whether it is required to be
bifurcated. The embedded derivative is bifurcated from the host contract and accounted for as a freestanding derivative if:       

the combined instrument is not accounted for in its entirety at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in earnings;

the terms of the embedded derivative are not clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics of the host contract; and

a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would qualify as a derivative instrument.      
  Such embedded derivatives are carried in the consolidated balance sheets at estimated fair value with the host contract
and changes in their estimated fair value are generally reported in net derivative gains (losses) except for those in policyholder benefits and claims related to ceded reinsurance of GMIB. If the Company is unable to properly identify and measure an
embedded derivative for separation from its host contract, the entire contract is carried on the balance sheet at estimated fair value, with changes in estimated fair value recognized in the current period in net investment gains (losses) or net
investment income. Additionally, the Company may elect to carry an entire contract on the balance sheet at estimated fair value, with changes in estimated fair value recognized in the current period in net investment gains (losses) or net investment
income if that contract contains an embedded derivative that requires bifurcation. At inception, the Company attributes to the embedded derivative a portion of the projected future guarantee fees to be collected from the policyholder equal to the
present value of projected future guaranteed benefits. Any additional fees represent  excess  fees and are reported in universal life and investment-type product policy fees.   

      Fair Value      
  Certain assets and liabilities are measured at estimated fair value in the Company s consolidated balance sheets. In
addition, the notes to these consolidated financial statements include further disclosures of estimated fair values. The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price)
in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. In most cases, the exit price and the transaction (or entry) price will be the same at initial
recognition.      Subsequent to initial recognition, fair values are based on unadjusted quoted prices for
identical assets or liabilities in active markets that are readily and regularly obtainable. When such quoted prices are not available, fair values are based on quoted prices in markets that are not active, quoted prices for similar but not
identical assets or liabilities, or other observable inputs. If these inputs are not available, or observable inputs are not determinative, unobservable inputs and/or adjustments to observable inputs requiring management judgment are used to
determine the fair value of assets and liabilities.   

         209

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

      Goodwill      
  Goodwill represents the future economic benefits arising from net assets acquired in a business combination that are not
individually identified and recognized. Goodwill is calculated as the excess of cost over the estimated fair value of such net assets acquired, is not amortized, and is tested for impairment based on a fair value approach at least annually or more
frequently if events or circumstances indicate that there may be justification for conducting an interim test. The Company performs its annual goodwill impairment testing during the third quarter of each year based upon data as of the close of the
second quarter. Goodwill associated with a business acquisition is not tested for impairment during the year the business is acquired unless there is a significant identified impairment event.   
  The impairment test is performed at the reporting unit level, which is the operating segment or a business one level
below the operating segment, if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level. For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value,
there may be an indication of impairment. In such instances, the implied fair value of the goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill that would be determined in a business combination. The excess of the carrying value of
goodwill over the implied fair value of goodwill would be recognized as an impairment and recorded as a charge against net income.      On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates potential triggering events that may affect the estimated fair value of the Company s reporting units to assess whether any goodwill impairment exists.
Deteriorating or adverse market conditions for certain reporting units may have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units and could result in future impairments of goodwill.   

      Employee Benefit Plans      
  Certain subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. (the  Subsidiaries ) sponsor and/or administer various plans that provide
defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefits covering eligible employees and sales representatives. Measurement dates used for all of the Subsidiaries  defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans correspond with
the fiscal year ends of sponsoring Subsidiaries, which are December 31 for U.S. Subsidiaries and November 30 for most non-U.S. Subsidiaries.      The Company recognizes the funded status of the projected pension benefit obligation ( PBO ) for pension benefits and the accumulated pension benefit obligation ( APBO ) for other
postretirement benefits for each of its plans. The Company recognizes an expense for differences between actual experience and estimates over the average future service period of participants. The actuarial gains or losses, prior service costs and
credits and the remaining net transition asset or obligation not yet included in net periodic benefit costs are charged to accumulated OCI ( AOCI ), net of income tax.   
  The Subsidiaries also sponsor defined contribution plans for substantially all U.S. employees under which a portion of
employee contributions is matched. Applicable matching contributions are made each payroll period. Accordingly, the Company recognizes compensation cost for current matching contributions. As all contributions are transferred currently as earned to
the defined contribution plans, no liability for matching contributions is recognized in the consolidated balance sheets.   

      Income Tax      
  MetLife, Inc. and its includable life insurance and non-life insurance subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S. federal
income tax return in accordance with the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ). Non-includable subsidiaries file either separate individual corporate tax returns or separate consolidated tax returns.
  
         210

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The Company s accounting for income taxes represents
management s best estimate of various events and transactions.      Deferred tax assets and liabilities
resulting from temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities are measured at the balance sheet date using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years the temporary differences
are expected to reverse.      The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of sufficient
taxable income within the carryback or carryforward periods under the tax law in the applicable tax jurisdiction. Valuation allowances are established when management determines, based on available information, that it is more likely than not that
deferred income tax assets will not be realized. Factors in management s determination include the performance of the business and its ability to generate capital gains. Significant judgment is required in determining whether valuation
allowances should be established, as well as the amount of such allowances. When making such determination, consideration is given to, among other things, the following:   

future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards;      

future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences;      

taxable income in prior carryback years; and      

tax planning strategies.         The Company may be required to change its provision for income taxes in certain circumstances. Examples of such circumstances include when estimates used in determining valuation allowances on deferred
tax assets significantly change or when receipt of new information indicates the need for adjustment in valuation allowances. Additionally, future events, such as changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such laws or regulations,
could have an impact on the provision for income tax and the effective tax rate. Any such changes could significantly affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements in the year these changes occur.   
  The Company determines whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the
appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial statements. A tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. Unrecognized
tax benefits due to tax uncertainties that do not meet the threshold are included within other liabilities and are charged to earnings in the period that such determination is made.   
  The Company classifies interest recognized as interest expense and penalties recognized as a component of income tax.

Litigation Contingencies      
  The Company is a party to a number of legal actions and is involved in a number of regulatory investigations. Given the
inherent unpredictability of these matters, it is difficult to estimate the impact on the Company s financial position. Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably
estimated. Except as otherwise disclosed in Note 21, legal costs are recognized in other expenses as incurred. On a quarterly and annual basis, the Company reviews relevant information with respect to liabilities for litigation, regulatory
investigations and litigation-related contingencies to be reflected in the Company s consolidated financial statements.   
      Other Accounting Policies      
     Stock-Based Compensation     
  The Company grants certain employees and directors stock-based compensation awards under various plans that are subject to
specific vesting conditions. The cost of all stock-based transactions is measured at fair value at   
         211

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
grant date and recognized over the period during which a grantee is required to provide services in exchange for the award. Although the terms of the Company s stock-based plans do not
accelerate vesting upon retirement, or the attainment of retirement eligibility, the requisite service period subsequent to attaining such eligibility is considered nonsubstantive. Accordingly, the Company recognizes compensation expense related to
stock-based awards over the shorter of the requisite service period or the period to attainment of retirement eligibility. An estimation of future forfeitures of stock-based awards is incorporated into the determination of compensation expense when
recognizing expense over the requisite service period.   

     Cash and Cash Equivalents     
  The Company considers all highly liquid securities and other investments purchased with an original or remaining maturity
of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. Cash equivalents are stated at amortized cost, which approximates estimated fair value.   

     Property, Equipment, Leasehold Improvements and Computer Software
       Property, equipment and leasehold improvements, which are included in other assets, are stated at
cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation is determined using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, as appropriate. The estimated life is generally 40 years for company occupied real estate
property, from five to 10 years for leasehold improvements, and from three to seven years for all other property and equipment. The cost basis of the property, equipment and leasehold improvements was $2.5 billion at both December 31, 2012
and 2011. Accumulated depreciation and amortization of property, equipment and leasehold improvements was $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Related depreciation and amortization expense was
$208 million, $199 million and $151 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.      Computer software, which is included in other assets, is stated at cost, less accumulated amortization. Purchased software costs, as well as certain internal and external costs incurred to develop
internal-use computer software during the application development stage, are capitalized. Such costs are amortized generally over a four-year period using the straight-line method. The cost basis of computer software was $1.5 billion and
$2.2 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Accumulated amortization of capitalized software was $932 million and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Related amortization expense was
$221 million, $217 million and $189 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

     Other Revenues     
  Other revenues include, in addition to items described elsewhere herein, advisory fees, broker-dealer commissions and
fees, administrative service fees, and changes in account value relating to corporate-owned life insurance ( COLI ). Such fees and commissions are recognized in the period in which services are performed. Under certain COLI contracts, if
the Company reports certain unlikely adverse results in its consolidated financial statements, withdrawals would not be immediately available and would be subject to market value adjustment, which could result in a reduction of the account value.

Policyholder Dividends     
  Policyholder dividends are approved annually by the insurance subsidiaries  boards of directors. The aggregate amount
of policyholder dividends is related to actual interest, mortality, morbidity and expense experience for the year, as well as management s judgment as to the appropriate level of statutory surplus to be retained by the insurance subsidiaries.

212

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

     Foreign Currency     
  Assets, liabilities and operations of foreign affiliates and subsidiaries are recorded based on the functional currency of
each entity. The determination of the functional currency is made based on the appropriate economic and management indicators. With the exception of certain foreign operations, primarily Japan, where multiple functional currencies exist, the local
currencies of foreign operations are the functional currencies. Assets and liabilities of foreign affiliates and subsidiaries are translated from the functional currency to U.S. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at each year-end and
income and expense accounts are translated at the average exchange rates during the year. The resulting translation adjustments are charged or credited directly to OCI, net of applicable taxes. Gains and losses from foreign currency transactions,
including the effect of re-measurement of monetary assets and liabilities to the appropriate functional currency, are reported as part of net investment gains (losses) in the period in which they occur.   

     Earnings Per Common Share     
  Basic earnings per common share are computed based on the weighted average number of common shares, or their equivalent,
outstanding during the period. The difference between the number of shares assumed issued and number of shares assumed purchased represents the dilutive shares. Diluted earnings per common share include the dilutive effect of the assumed:
(i) exercise or issuance of stock-based awards using the treasury stock method; (ii) settlement of stock purchase contracts underlying common equity units using the treasury stock method; and (iii) settlement of accelerated common
stock repurchase contracts. Under the treasury stock method, exercise or issuance of stock-based awards and settlement of the stock purchase contracts underlying common equity units is assumed to occur with the proceeds used to purchase common stock
at the average market price for the period.   
     Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements     
  On January 1, 2012, the Company adopted new guidance regarding accounting for DAC, which was retrospectively
applied. The guidance specifies that only costs related directly to successful acquisition of new or renewal contracts can be capitalized as DAC; all other acquisition-related costs must be expensed as incurred. Under the new guidance, advertising
costs may only be included in DAC if the capitalization criteria in the direct-response advertising guidance in Subtopic 340-20,  Other Assets and Deferred Costs Capitalized Advertising Costs , are met. As a result, certain direct
marketing, sales manager compensation and administrative costs previously capitalized by the Company will no longer be deferred. The cumulative effect adjustment of adopting the guidance on accounting for DAC was a decrease in total equity of
$1.8 billion, net of income tax, as of January 1, 2010, which is reflected in the opening balance of equity in the consolidated statement of equity.      On January 1, 2012, the Company adopted new guidance regarding comprehensive income, which was retrospectively applied, that provides companies with the option to present the total of comprehensive
income, components of net income, and the components of OCI either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements in annual financial statements. The standard eliminates the option to present
components of OCI as part of the statement of changes in stockholders  equity. The Company adopted the two-statement approach for annual financial statements.   
  Effective January 1, 2012, the Company adopted new guidance on goodwill impairment testing that simplifies how an
entity tests goodwill for impairment. This new guidance allows an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value as a basis for
determining whether it needs to perform the quantitative two-step goodwill impairment test. Only if an entity determines, based on qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit s fair value is less than its
carrying value will it be required to calculate the fair value of the reporting unit. The   
         213

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
qualitative assessment is optional and the Company is permitted to bypass it for any reporting unit in any period and begin its impairment analysis with the quantitative calculation. In 2012, the
Company proceeded to Step 1 of the two-step impairment analysis for all of the Company s reporting units. The Company is permitted to perform the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period.   
  Effective January 1, 2012, the Company adopted new guidance regarding fair value measurements that establishes
common requirements for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements in accordance with GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. Some of the amendments clarify the Financial Accounting Standards
Board s ( FASB ) intent on the application of existing fair value measurement requirements. Other amendments change a particular principle or requirement for measuring fair value or for disclosing information about fair value
measurements. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements other than the expanded disclosures in Note 10.   
  Effective July 1, 2010, the Company adopted guidance regarding accounting for embedded credit derivatives within
structured securities. This guidance clarifies the type of embedded credit derivative that is exempt from embedded derivative bifurcation requirements. Specifically, embedded credit derivatives resulting only from subordination of one financial
instrument to another continue to qualify for the scope exception. Embedded credit derivative features other than subordination must be analyzed to determine whether they require bifurcation and separate accounting. As a result of the adoption of
this guidance, the Company elected FVO for certain structured securities that were previously accounted for as fixed maturity securities. Upon adoption, the Company reclassified $50 million of securities from fixed maturity securities to FVO
and trading securities. These securities had cumulative unrealized losses of $10 million, net of income tax, which was recognized as a cumulative effect adjustment to decrease retained earnings with a corresponding increase to AOCI as of
July 1, 2010.      Effective January 1, 2010, the Company adopted guidance related to financial
instrument transfers and consolidation of VIEs. The financial instrument transfer guidance eliminates the concept of a qualified special purpose entity ( QSPE ), eliminates the guaranteed mortgage securitization exception, changes the
criteria for achieving sale accounting when transferring a financial asset and changes the initial recognition of retained beneficial interests. The revised consolidation guidance changed the definition of the primary beneficiary, as well as the
method of determining whether an entity is a primary beneficiary of a VIE from a quantitative model to a qualitative model. Under the qualitative VIE consolidation model, the entity that has both the ability to direct the most significant activities
of the VIE and the obligation to absorb losses or receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE is considered to be the primary beneficiary. The guidance requires a continuous reassessment, as well as enhanced disclosures,
including the effects of a company s involvement with VIEs on its financial statements.      As a result of
the adoption of the amended VIE consolidation guidance, the Company consolidated certain former QSPEs that were previously accounted for as fixed maturity commercial mortgage-backed securities ( CMBS ) and equity security collateralized
debt obligations. The Company also elected FVO for all of the consolidated assets and liabilities of these entities. Upon consolidation, the Company recorded $278 million of securities classified as FVO and trading securities, $6.8 billion
of commercial mortgage loans and $6.8 billion of long-term debt based on estimated fair values at January 1, 2010 and de-recognized $179 million in fixed maturity securities and less than $1 million in equity securities. The
consolidation also resulted in a decrease in retained earnings of $12 million, net of income tax, and an increase in AOCI of $42 million, net of income tax, at January 1, 2010. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company
recorded $426 million of net investment income on the consolidated assets, $411 million of interest expense in other expenses on the related long-term debt, and $6 million in net investment gains (losses) to remeasure the assets and
liabilities at their estimated fair values.   
         214

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Future Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements     
  In January 2013, the FASB issued new guidance regarding comprehensive income (Accounting Standards Update
( ASU ) 2013-02,  Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reporting of Amounts Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income),  effective prospectively for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2012. The amendments
require an entity to provide information about the amounts reclassified out of AOCI by component. In addition, an entity is required to present, either on the face of the statement where net income is presented or in the notes, significant amounts
reclassified out of AOCI by the respective line items of net income but only if the amount reclassified is required under GAAP to be reclassified to net income in its entirety in the same reporting period. For other amounts that are not required
under GAAP to be reclassified in their entirety to net income, an entity is required to cross-reference to other disclosures required under GAAP that provide additional detail about those amounts. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of
this guidance on its consolidated financial statements.      In January 2013, the FASB issued new guidance
regarding balance sheet offsetting disclosures (ASU 2013-01,  Balance Sheet (Topic 210): Clarifying the Scope of Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities  ( ASU 2013-01 )), effective for fiscal years and interim periods
within those years beginning on or after January 1, 2013. The amendments in ASU 2013-01 clarify that the scope of ASU 2011-11 (as defined below), applies to derivatives, including bifurcated embedded derivatives, repurchase and reverse
repurchase agreements, and securities borrowing and lending transactions. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements.   
  In December 2011, the FASB issued new guidance regarding balance sheet offsetting disclosures (ASU 2011-11,
 Balance Sheet (Topic 210): Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities  ( ASU 2011-11   )  ) ,  effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, and interim periods within
those annual periods. The guidance will be applied retrospectively for all comparative periods presented. The guidance requires an entity to disclose information about offsetting and related arrangements to enable users of its financial statements
to understand the effects of those arrangements on its financial position. Entities are required to disclose both gross information and net information about both instruments and transactions eligible for offset in the statement of financial
position and instruments and transactions subject to an agreement similar to a master netting arrangement. The objective of the guidance is to facilitate comparison between those entities that prepare their financial statements on the basis of GAAP
and those entities that prepare their financial statements on the basis of International Financial Reporting Standards. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
     In July 2011, the FASB issued new guidance on other expenses (ASU 2011-06,  Other Expenses (Topic 720):
Fees Paid to the Federal Government by Health Insurers) , effective for calendar years beginning after December 31, 2013. The objective of this standard is to address how health insurers should recognize and classify in their income
statements fees mandated by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act. The amendments in this standard specify that the liability for the fee should be estimated and recorded in
full once the entity provides qualifying health insurance in the applicable calendar year in which the fee is payable with a corresponding deferred cost that is amortized to expense using the straight-line method of allocation unless another method
better allocates the fee over the calendar year that it is payable. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements.   
         215

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

      2.  Segment Information    
   MetLife is organized into six segments, reflecting three broad geographic regions: Retail; Group,
Voluntary   Worksite Benefits; Corporate Benefit Funding; and Latin America (collectively, the  Americas  Asia; and EMEA.        Americas        The Americas consists of the following
segments:         Retail      
  The Retail segment offers a broad range of protection products and services and a variety of annuities to individuals and
employees of corporations and other institutions, and is organized into two businesses: Life   Other and Annuities. Life   Other insurance products and services include variable life, universal life, term life and whole life
products. Additionally, through broker-dealer affiliates, the Company offers a full range of mutual funds and other securities products. Life   Other products and services also include individual disability income products and personal
lines property   casualty insurance, including private passenger automobile, homeowners and personal excess liability insurance. Annuities include a variety of variable and fixed annuities which provide for both asset accumulation and asset
distribution needs.         Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits      
  The Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits segment offers a broad range of protection products and services to
individuals and corporations, as well as other institutions and their respective employees, and is organized into two businesses: Group and Voluntary   Worksite. Group insurance products and services include variable life, universal life
and term life products. Group insurance products and services also include dental, group short- and long-term disability and accidental death   dismemberment coverages. The Voluntary   Worksite business includes personal lines
property   casualty insurance, including private passenger automobile, homeowners and personal excess liability insurance offered to employees on a voluntary basis. The Voluntary   Worksite business also includes LTC, prepaid legal
plans and critical illness products.         Corporate Benefit Funding      
  The Corporate Benefit Funding segment offers a broad range of annuity and investment products, including guaranteed
interest products and other stable value products, income annuities, and separate account contracts for the investment management of defined benefit and defined contribution plan assets. This segment also includes certain products to fund
postretirement benefits and company-, bank- or trust-owned life insurance used to finance non-qualified benefit programs for executives.         Latin America         The Latin America segment
offers a broad range of products to both individuals and corporations, as well as other institutions and their respective employees, which include life insurance, accident and health insurance, group medical, dental, credit insurance, endowment and
retirement   savings products.        Asia     
  The Asia segment offers a broad range of products to both individuals and corporations, as well as other institutions and
their respective employees, which include whole life, term life, variable life, universal life, accident and health insurance, fixed and variable annuities and endowment products.   
         216

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     EMEA     
  The EMEA segment offers a broad range of products to both individuals and corporations, as well as other institutions and
their respective employees, which include life insurance, accident and health insurance, credit insurance, annuities, endowment and retirement   savings products.        Corporate   Other        In addition, the
Company reports certain of its results of operations in Corporate   Other, which includes MetLife Bank, National Association ( MetLife Bank ) (see Note 3) and other business activities. Corporate   Other contains the
excess capital not allocated to the segments, external integration costs, internal resource costs for associates committed to acquisitions, enterprise-wide strategic initiative restructuring charges, and various start-up and certain run-off
entities. Corporate   Other also includes assumed reinsurance of certain variable annuity products from the Company s former operating joint venture in Japan. Under this in-force reinsurance agreement, the Company reinsures living and
death benefit guarantees issued in connection with variable annuity products. Additionally, Corporate   Other includes interest expense related to the majority of the Company s outstanding debt, expenses associated with certain legal
proceedings and income tax audit issues. Corporate   Other also includes the elimination of intersegment amounts, which generally relate to intersegment loans, which bear interest rates commensurate with related borrowings.   
    Financial Measures and Segment Accounting Policies     
  Operating earnings is the measure of segment profit or loss the Company uses to evaluate segment performance and allocate
resources. Consistent with GAAP guidance for segment reporting, operating earnings is the Company s measure of segment performance and is reported below. Operating earnings should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP income (loss) from
continuing operations, net of income tax. The Company believes the presentation of operating earnings as the Company measures it for management purposes enhances the understanding of its performance by highlighting the results of operations and the
underlying profitability drivers of the business.      Operating earnings is defined as operating revenues less
operating expenses, both net of income tax.      Operating revenues and operating expenses exclude results of
discontinued operations and other businesses that have been or will be sold or exited by MetLife, Inc. Operating revenues also excludes net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses). Operating expenses also excludes goodwill
impairments.      The following additional adjustments are made to GAAP revenues, in the line items indicated, in
calculating operating revenues:       

Universal life and investment-type product policy fees excludes the amortization of unearned revenue related to net investment gains (losses) and
net derivative gains (losses) and certain variable annuity GMIB fees ( GMIB Fees           

Net investment income: (i) includes amounts for scheduled periodic settlement payments and amortization of premium on derivatives that are
hedges of investments but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, (ii) includes income from discontinued real estate operations, (iii) excludes post-tax operating earnings adjustments relating to insurance joint ventures accounted
for under the equity method, (iv) excludes certain amounts related to contractholder-directed unit-linked investments, and (v) excludes certain amounts related to securitization entities that are VIEs consolidated under GAAP; and

Other revenues are adjusted for settlements of foreign currency earnings hedges.      
         217

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The following additional adjustments are made to GAAP expenses, in the
line items indicated, in calculating operating expenses:       

Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends excludes: (i) changes in the policyholder dividend obligation related to net
investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), (ii) inflation-indexed benefit adjustments associated with contracts backed by inflation-indexed investments and amounts associated with periodic crediting rate adjustments based on
the total return of a contractually referenced pool of assets, (iii) benefits and hedging costs related to GMIBs ( GMIB Costs ), and (iv) market value adjustments associated with surrenders or terminations of contracts
( Market Value Adjustments           

Interest credited to policyholder account balances includes adjustments for scheduled periodic settlement payments and amortization of premium on
derivatives that are hedges of PABs but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and excludes amounts related to net investment income earned on contractholder-directed unit-linked investments;      

Amortization of DAC and VOBA excludes amounts related to: (i) net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), (ii) GMIB
Fees and GMIB Costs, and (iii) Market Value Adjustments;          

Amortization of negative VOBA excludes amounts related to Market Value Adjustments;      

Interest expense on debt excludes certain amounts related to securitization entities that are VIEs consolidated under GAAP; and

Other expenses excludes costs related to: (i) noncontrolling interests, (ii) implementation of new insurance regulatory requirements, and
(iii) acquisition and integration costs.         Set forth in the tables below is certain
financial information with respect to the Company s segments, as well as Corporate   Other, for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 and at December 31, 2012 and 2011. The segment accounting policies are the same
as those used to prepare the Company s consolidated financial statements, except for operating earnings adjustments as defined above. In addition, segment accounting policies include the method of capital allocation described below.   
  Economic capital is an internally developed risk capital model, the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the
business and to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. The economic capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the risks inherent in the Company s business.   
  The Company s economic capital model aligns segment allocated equity with emerging standards and consistent risk
principles. Segment net investment income is credited or charged based on the level of allocated equity; however, changes in allocated equity do not impact the Company s consolidated net investment income, operating earnings or income (loss)
from continuing operations, net of income tax.   
         218

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)  
    Total assets includes $111.0 billion of assets from the Japan operations which represents 13% of total consolidated assets.
     
         219

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)  
    Total assets includes $103.9 billion of assets from the Japan operations which represents 13% of total consolidated assets.
     
         220

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

221

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Net investment income is based upon the actual results of each
segment s specifically identifiable investment portfolio adjusted for allocated equity. Other costs are allocated to each of the segments based upon: (i) a review of the nature of such costs; (ii) time studies analyzing the amount of
employee compensation costs incurred by each segment; and (iii) cost estimates included in the Company s product pricing.      The following table presents total premiums, universal life and investment-type product policy fees and other revenues by major product groups of the Company s segments as well as
Corporate   Other:       

(1)  
    Includes annuities and corporate benefit funding products.      
   Revenues derived from any customer did not exceed 10% of consolidated premiums, universal life and
investment-type product policy fees and other revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.      The following table presents total premiums, universal life and investment-type product policy fees and other revenues associated with the Company s U.S. and foreign operations:   

3.  Acquisitions and Dispositions    
     Pending Dispositions           MetLife Bank         On January 11, 2013,
MetLife Bank and MetLife, Inc. completed the sale of the depository business of MetLife Bank to GE Capital Retail Bank. On February 14, 2013, MetLife, Inc. announced that it had received the required approvals from both the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve (the  Federal Reserve Board ) to de-register as a bank holding company.      In January 2012, MetLife, Inc. announced it was exiting the business of originating forward residential mortgage loans. In April 2012, MetLife, Inc. announced it was exiting the businesses of originating
and servicing reverse residential mortgage loans and that MetLife Bank and MetLife, Inc. entered into a definitive agreement to   
         222

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
sell MetLife Bank s reverse mortgage servicing portfolio. In June 2012, the Company sold the majority of MetLife Bank s reverse MSRs and related assets and liabilities, with the
remainder sold in September 2012 pursuant to the same sales agreement. In November 2012, MetLife Bank and MetLife, Inc. entered into a definitive agreement to sell MetLife Bank s forward mortgage servicing portfolio to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
( JPMorgan Chase ). With the assumption of the rights and obligations of the forward mortgage servicing portfolio by JPMorgan Chase on December 31, 2012, MetLife Bank committed to exit the business of servicing forward mortgages.
     In conjunction with exiting the depository, servicing and mortgage loan origination businesses (the
 MetLife Bank Divestiture ), for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company recorded net losses of $163 million and $212 million, respectively, net of income tax, related to the loss on disposal of the MSRs,
securities and mortgage loans sold and losses associated with lease impairments, other employee-related charges and investment impairments. The Company expects to incur additional charges of $60 million to $85 million, net of income tax,
related to exiting these businesses. For servicing, collective net assets of $608 million were sold for $580 million in net consideration, of which $190 million has been collected at December 31, 2012. The majority of the
remaining amounts were collected in January 2013. In conjunction with the sale of reverse MSRs, the Company also de-recognized $9.1 billion of the associated securitized reverse residential mortgage loans that previously did not qualify as
sales, as well as the corresponding liability of $9.1 billion related to these mortgage loans, from the consolidated balance sheet.      With the sale of its depository business and forward mortgage servicing portfolio, MetLife Bank has sold or has otherwise committed to exit substantially all of its operations. Total assets and
liabilities recorded in the consolidated balance sheets related to MetLife Bank s businesses were $7.8 billion and $6.8 billion at December 31, 2012, respectively and $21.3 billion and $19.9 billion at
December 31, 2011, respectively. The disposition of the assets and liabilities of these businesses did not qualify for classification as discontinued operations under GAAP.   
  MetLife Bank has historically taken advantage of collateralized borrowing opportunities with the Federal Home Loan Bank
( FHLB ) of New York ( FHLB of NY ). In January 2012, MetLife Bank discontinued taking advances from the FHLB of NY. In April 2012, MetLife Bank transferred cash to Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ) related
to $3.8 billion of outstanding advances which had been included in long-term debt, and MLIC assumed the associated obligations under terms similar to those of the transferred advances by issuing funding agreements which are included in PABs.
See Note 12.         Caribbean Business      
  In 2011, the Company entered into an agreement to sell its insurance operations in the Caribbean region, Panama and Costa
Rica (the  Caribbean Business ). As a result of this agreement, the Company recorded a loss of $21 million, net of income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2011. During 2012, regulatory approvals were obtained for a majority
of the jurisdictions and closings were finalized with the buyer, resulting in a gain of $5 million, net of income tax. These amounts are reflected in net investment gains (losses) within the consolidated statements of operations. As of
December 31, 2011, the total assets and liabilities recorded in the consolidated balance sheets associated with the Caribbean Business were $859 million and $707 million, respectively. Sales in the remaining jurisdictions are expected
to close in the first quarter of 2013, subject to regulatory approval and other customary closing conditions in each of the jurisdictions. The results of the Caribbean Business are included in continuing operations.   
         223

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     2012 Disposition     
     American Life U.K. Assumption Reinsurance      
  During July 2012, the Company completed the disposal, through a ceded assumption reinsurance agreement, of certain closed
blocks of business in the United Kingdom ( U.K. ), to a third party. Simultaneously, the Company recaptured from the third party the indemnity reinsurance agreement related to this business, previously reinsured as of July 1, 2011.
These transactions resulted in a decrease in both insurance and reinsurance assets and liabilities of $4.1 billion. The Company recognized a gain of $25 million, net of income tax, on the transactions for the year ended
December 31, 2012, which was recorded in net investment gains (losses) in the consolidated statement of operations.   
    2011 Dispositions           MSI MetLife         On April 1, 2011, the
Company sold its 50% interest in Mitsui Sumitomo MetLife Insurance Co., Ltd. ( MSI MetLife ), a Japan domiciled life insurance company, to its joint venture partner, MS AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. ( MS AD ), for
$269 million ( 22.5 billion) in cash consideration, less $4 million ( 310 million) to reimburse MS AD for specific expenses incurred related to the transaction. The accumulated other comprehensive losses in
the foreign currency translation adjustment component of equity resulting from the hedges of the Company s investment in the joint venture of $46 million, net of income tax, were released upon sale but did not impact net income for the
year ended December 31, 2011 as such losses were considered in the overall impairment evaluation of the investment prior to the sale. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company recorded losses of $57 million and
$136 million, net of income tax, respectively, in net investment gains (losses) within the consolidated statements of operations related to the sale. The Company s operating earnings relating to its investment in MSI MetLife were included
in the Asia segment.         MetLife Taiwan      
  On November 1, 2011, the Company sold its wholly-owned subsidiary, MetLife Taiwan Insurance Company Limited
( MetLife Taiwan ) for $180 million in cash consideration. The net assets sold were $282 million, resulting in a loss on disposal of $64 million, net of income tax, recorded in discontinued operations, for the year ended
December 31, 2011. Income (loss) from the operations of MetLife Taiwan of $20 million and $22 million, net of income tax, for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, was also recorded in discontinued operations.
See    Discontinued Operations  below.        2010 Acquisition of ALICO     
     Description of Transaction         On November 1, 2010 (the  ALICO Acquisition Date ), MetLife, Inc. acquired all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of American Life Insurance Company ( American Life )
from AM Holdings LLC (formerly known as ALICO Holdings LLC) ( AM Holdings ), a subsidiary of American International Group, Inc. ( AIG ), and Delaware American Life Insurance Company ( DelAm ) from AIG (American Life,
together with DelAm, collectively,  ALICO ) (the  ALICO Acquisition ) for a total purchase price of $16.4 billion. The ALICO Acquisition significantly broadened the Company s diversification by product, distribution and
geography, meaningfully accelerated MetLife s global growth strategy, and provides the opportunity to build an international franchise leveraging the key strengths of ALICO.   
         224

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The $7.2 billion cash portion of the purchase price was funded
through the issuance of common stock as described in Note 16, fixed and floating rate senior debt as described in Note 12 as well as cash on hand. The securities issued to AM Holdings included (a) 78,239,712 shares of MetLife,
Inc. s common stock; (b) 6,857,000 shares of Series B Contingent Convertible Junior Participating Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (the  convertible preferred stock ) of MetLife, Inc.; and
(c) 40 million common equity units of MetLife, Inc. with an aggregate stated amount at issuance of $3.0 billion, initially consisting of (i) three purchase contracts (the  Series C Purchase Contracts,  the
 Series D Purchase Contracts  and the  Series E Purchase Contracts  and, together, the  Purchase Contracts ), obligating the holder to purchase, on specified future settlement dates, a variable number of
shares of MetLife, Inc. s common stock for a fixed price; and (ii) an interest in each of three series of debt securities (the  Series C Debt Securities,  the  Series D Debt Securities  and the
 Series E Debt Securities,  and, together, the  Debt Securities ) issued by MetLife, Inc. Distributions on the common equity units will be made quarterly, through contract payments on the Purchase Contracts and interest
payments on the Debt Securities, initially at an aggregate annual rate of 5.00% (an average annual rate of 3.02% on the Purchase Contracts and an average annual rate of 1.98% on the Debt Securities) as described in Note 15.   
     Contingent Consideration         The Company guaranteed that the fair value of a fund of assets backing certain U.K. unit-linked contracts would have a value of at least  1 per unit on July 1, 2012. If the shortfall
between the aggregate guaranteed amount and the fair value of the fund exceeded  106 million (as adjusted for withdrawals), AIG would pay the difference to the Company and, conversely, if the shortfall at July 1, 2012 was less than
 106 million, the Company would pay the difference to AIG. At July 1, 2012, the shortfall between the aggregate guaranteed amount and the fair value of the fund was less than  106 million, resulting in a payment of
$108 million by the Company to AIG during the third quarter of 2012. The contingent consideration liability was $109 million at December 31, 2011. The decrease in the contingent consideration liability amount from December 31,
2011 to the date of settlement was recorded in net derivative gains (losses) in the consolidated statement of operations.   
     Branch Restructuring         On March 4, 2010, American Life entered into a closing agreement (the  Closing Agreement ) with the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) with respect to a
U.S. withholding tax issue arising as a result of payments made by its foreign branches. The Closing Agreement provides that American Life s foreign branches will not be required to withhold U.S. income tax on the income portion of
payments made pursuant to American Life s life insurance and annuity contracts ( Covered Payments ) for any tax periods beginning on January 1, 2005 and ending on December 31, 2013 (the  Deferral Period ). The
Closing Agreement required that American Life submit a plan to the IRS within 90 days after the close of the ALICO Acquisition, indicating the steps American Life would take (on a country by country basis) to ensure that no substantial amount
of U.S. withholding tax will arise from Covered Payments made by American Life s foreign branches to foreign customers after the Deferral Period. Such plan, which was submitted to the IRS on January 29, 2011, involves the transfer of
businesses from certain of the foreign branches of American Life to one or more existing or newly-formed subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. or American Life. See Note 19 for additional information regarding the valuation allowance related to branch
restructuring.      A liability of $277 million was recognized in purchase accounting at November 1,
2010 for the anticipated and estimated costs associated with restructuring American Life s foreign branches into subsidiaries in connection with the Closing Agreement. This liability has been reduced based on payments through December 31,
2012. In addition, based on revised estimates of anticipated costs, this liability was reduced by $51 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, which was recorded as a reduction in other expenses in the consolidated statement of
operations, resulting in a liability of $62 million at December 31, 2012.   
         225

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   See Notes 11 and 17 for additional information on goodwill and other
expenses, respectively, related to the ALICO Acquisition.         Revenues and Earnings of ALICO      
  The following table presents information for ALICO that is included in the Company s consolidated statement of
operations from the ALICO Acquisition Date through November 30, 2010:       

ALICO s 
Operations     Included in MetLife s     Results for the     Year Ended December 31, 2010   

(In millions)   

Total revenues   
     
  $  
  950  

Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax   
     
  $  
  (2  
  )    
 
      Supplemental Pro Forma Information (unaudited)      
  The following table presents unaudited supplemental pro forma information as if the ALICO Acquisition had occurred on
January 1, 2010 for the year ended December 31, 2010.       

Year
Ended         December 31, 2010       

(In millions, except per share data)   

Total revenues   
     
  $  
  64,680  

Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, attributable to common shareholders   
     
  $  
  3,888  

Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, attributable to common shareholders per common
share:   

Basic   
     
  $  
  3.60  

Diluted   
     
  $  
  3.57  

The pro forma information was derived from the historical financial information of MetLife and ALICO,
reflecting the results of operations of MetLife and ALICO for 2010. The historical financial information has been adjusted to give effect to the pro forma events that are directly attributable to the ALICO Acquisition and factually supportable and
expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results. Discontinued operations and the related earnings per share have been excluded from the presentation as they are non-recurring in nature. The pro forma information is not intended to
reflect the results of operations of the combined company that would have resulted had the ALICO Acquisition been effective during the periods presented or the results that may be obtained by the combined company in the future. The pro forma
information does not reflect future events that may occur after the ALICO Acquisition, including, but not limited to, expense efficiencies or revenue enhancements arising from the ALICO Acquisition and also does not give effect to certain one-time
charges that MetLife expects to incur, such as restructuring and integration costs.      The pro forma information
primarily reflects the following pro forma adjustments:       

reduction in net investment income to reflect the amortization or accretion associated with the new cost basis of the acquired fixed maturities
available-for-sale portfolio;          

elimination of amortization associated with the elimination of ALICO s historical DAC;      
         226

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

amortization of VOBA, VODA and VOCRA associated with the establishment of VOBA, VODA and VOCRA arising from the ALICO Acquisition;

reduction in other expenses associated with the amortization of negative VOBA;      

reduction in revenues associated with the elimination of ALICO s historical unearned revenue liability;      

interest expense associated with the issuance of the Debt Securities to AM Holdings and the public issuance of senior notes in connection with the
financing of the ALICO Acquisition;          

certain adjustments to conform to MetLife s accounting policies; and      

reversal of investment and derivative gains (losses) associated with certain transactions that were completed prior to the ALICO Acquisition Date
(conditions of closing).           Discontinued Operations     
  The following table summarizes the amounts that have been reflected as discontinued operations in the consolidated
statements of operations. Income (loss) from discontinued operations includes real estate classified as held-for-sale or sold.       

4.  Insurance    
     Insurance Liabilities     
  Insurance liabilities are comprised of future policy benefits, PABs and other policy-related balances. Information
regarding insurance liabilities by segment, as well as Corporate   Other, was as follows at:       

227

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

   Future policy benefits are measured as follows:   

Product Type:   
     
    Measurement
Assumptions:    
 
    Participating life   
     
    Aggregate of (i) net level premium reserves for death and endowment
policy benefits (calculated based upon the non-forfeiture interest rate, ranging from 3% to 7% for domestic business and 1% to 21% for international business, and mortality rates guaranteed in calculating the cash surrender values described in such
contracts); and (ii) the liability for terminal dividends for domestic business.    
 
    Non-participating life   
     
    Aggregate of the present value of expected future benefit payments
and related expenses less the present value of expected future net premiums. Assumptions as to mortality and persistency are based upon the Company s experience when the basis of the liability is established. Interest rate assumptions for the
aggregate future policy benefit liabilities range from 2% to 10% for domestic business and 1% to 16% for international business.    
 
    Individual and group  
  traditional fixed annuities after annuitization   
     
    Present value of expected future payments. Interest rate assumptions
used in establishing such liabilities range from 1% to 11% for domestic business and 1% to 13% for international business.    
 
    Non-medical health  
  insurance   
     
    The net level premium method and assumptions as to future
morbidity, withdrawals and interest, which provide a margin for adverse deviation. Interest rate assumptions used in establishing such liabilities range from 4% to 7% (primarily related to domestic business).    
 
    Disabled lives   
     
    Present value of benefits method and experience assumptions as to
claim terminations, expenses and interest. Interest rate assumptions used in establishing such liabilities range from 2% to 8% for domestic business and 1% to 9% for international business.    
 
    Property and
casualty     insurance   
     
    The amount estimated for claims that have been reported but not
settled and claims incurred but not reported are based upon the Company s historical experience and other actuarial assumptions that consider the effects of current developments, anticipated trends and risk management programs, reduced for
anticipated salvage and subrogation.    
    Participating business represented 6% of the Company s life insurance in-force at
both December 31, 2012 and 2011. Participating policies represented 20%, 21% and 26% of gross life insurance premiums for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
  PABs are equal to: (i) policy account values, which consist of an accumulation of gross premium payments and
investment performance; (ii) credited interest, ranging from 1% to 13% for domestic business and 1% to 16% for international business, less expenses, mortality charges and withdrawals; and (iii) fair value adjustments relating to business
combinations.   

         228

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Guarantees     
   The Company issues variable
annuity products with guaranteed minimum benefits. The non-life contingent portion of GMWB and the portion of certain GMIB that does not require annuitization are accounted for as embedded derivatives in PABs and are further discussed in Note 9.
Guarantees accounted for as insurance liabilities include:       

Guarantee:   

Measurement Assumptions:    
 
    GMDB   
     
         A return of purchase payment upon death even if the account value is reduced to zero.      
               An enhanced death benefit may be available for an additional fee.   
     
         Present value of expected death benefits in excess of the projected account balance recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on the present value of total expected
assessments.              Assumptions are consistent with those used for amortizing DAC, and are thus subject to the same variability and risk.  
   
       Investment performance and volatility assumptions
are consistent with the historical experience of the appropriate underlying equity index, such as the S P 500 Index.      
       Benefit assumptions are based on the average
benefits payable over a range of scenarios.          
 
    GMIB   
     
         After a specified period of time determined at the time of issuance of the variable annuity contract, a minimum accumulation of purchase payments, even if the account value is reduced to zero,
that can be annuitized to receive a monthly income stream that is not less than a specified amount.      
       Certain contracts also provide for a guaranteed
lump sum return of purchase premium in lieu of the annuitization benefit.   
     
         Present value of expected income benefits in excess of the projected account balance at any future date of annuitization and recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period based
on present value of total expected assessments.              Assumptions are consistent with those used for estimating GMDB liabilities.  
   
       Calculation incorporates an assumption for the
percentage of the potential annuitizations that may be elected by the contractholder.          
 
    GMWB   
     
         A return of purchase payment via partial withdrawals, even if the account value is reduced to zero, provided that cumulative withdrawals in a contract year do not exceed a certain
limit.              Certain contracts include guaranteed withdrawals that are life contingent.   

Expected value of the life contingent payments and expected assessments using
assumptions consistent with those used for estimating the GMDB liabilities.    
    The Company also issues annuity contracts that apply a lower rate of funds deposited if
the contractholder elects to surrender the contract for cash and a higher rate if the contractholder elects to annuitize ( two tier   

         229

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
annuities ). These guarantees include benefits that are payable in the event of death, maturity or at annuitization. Additionally, the Company issues universal and variable life contracts
where the Company contractually guarantees to the contractholder a secondary guarantee or a guaranteed paid-up benefit.      Information regarding the liabilities for guarantees (excluding base policy liabilities and embedded derivatives) relating to annuity and universal and variable life contracts was as follows:   

230

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Account balances of contracts with insurance guarantees were invested in
separate account asset classes as follows at:       

Based on the type of guarantee, the Company defines net amount at risk ( NAR ) as listed
below. These amounts include direct and assumed business, but exclude offsets from hedging or reinsurance, if any.   
     Variable Annuity Guarantees           In the Event of Death        Defined as the guaranteed
minimum death benefit less the total contract account value, as of the balance sheet date. It represents the amount of the claim that the Company would incur if death claims were filed on all contracts on the balance sheet date.   
    At Annuitization        Defined as the amount (if any) that would be required to be added to the total contract account value to purchase a lifetime income stream, based on current annuity rates, equal to the minimum amount
provided under the guaranteed benefit. This amount represents the Company s potential economic exposure to such guarantees in the event all contractholders were to annuitize on the balance sheet date, even though the contracts contain terms
that only allow annuitization of the guaranteed amount after the 10th anniversary of the contract, which not all contractholders have achieved.         Two Tier Annuities         Defined as the excess of
the upper tier, adjusted for a profit margin, less the lower tier, as of the balance sheet date. These contracts apply a lower rate of funds if the contractholder elects to surrender the contract for cash and a higher rate if the contractholder
elects to annuitize.         Universal and Variable Life Contracts      
  Defined as the guarantee amount less the account value, as of the balance sheet date. It represents the amount of the
claim that the Company would incur if death claims were filed on all contracts on the balance sheet date.   
         231

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Information regarding the liabilities for guarantees (excluding base
policy liabilities and embedded derivatives) relating to annuity and universal and variable life contracts was as follows at:       

(1)  
    The Company s annuity and life contracts with guarantees may offer more than one type of guarantee in each contract. Therefore, the amounts
listed above may not be mutually exclusive.          

(2)  
    The Company had previously disclosed the NAR based on the excess of the benefit base over the contractholder s total contract account value on
the balance sheet date. Such amounts were $9.7 billion and $12.1 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The Company has provided, in the table above, the NAR as defined above. The Company believes that this definition is
more representative of the potential economic exposures of these guarantees as the contractholders do not have access to this difference other than through annuitization.      

(3)  
    Includes amounts, which are not reported in the consolidated balance sheets, from assumed reinsurance of certain variable annuity products from the
Company s former operating joint venture in Japan.      
     Obligations Under Funding Agreements     
  The Company issues fixed and floating rate funding agreements, which are denominated in either U.S. dollars or
foreign currencies, to certain special purpose entities ( SPEs ) that have issued either debt securities or commercial paper for which payment of interest and principal is secured by such funding agreements. During the years ended
December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Company issued $35.1 billion, $39.9 billion and   
         232

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
$34.1 billion, respectively, and repaid $31.1 billion, $41.6 billion and $30.9 billion, respectively, of such funding agreements. At December 31, 2012 and 2011,
liabilities for funding agreements outstanding, which are included in PABs, were $30.0 billion and $25.5 billion, respectively.      Certain of the Company s subsidiaries are members of the FHLB. Holdings of FHLB common stock by branch, included in equity securities, were as follows at:   

Such subsidiaries have also entered into funding agreements. The liability for funding agreements is
included in PABs. Information related to the funding agreements was as follows at:       

(1)  
    Represents funding agreements issued to the FHLB in exchange for cash and for which the FHLB has been granted a lien on certain assets, some of
which are in the custody of the FHLB, including residential mortgage-backed securities ( RMBS ), to collateralize obligations under advances evidenced by funding agreements. The Company is permitted to withdraw any portion of the
collateral in the custody of the FHLB as long as there is no event of default and the remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to satisfy the collateral maintenance level. Upon any event of default by the Company, the FHLB s recovery on the
collateral is limited to the amount of the Company s liability to the FHLB.          

(2)  
    Advances are collateralized by mortgage-backed securities. The amount of collateral presented is at estimated fair value.

(3)  
    Represents funding agreements issued to certain SPEs that have issued debt securities for which payment of interest and principal is secured by such
funding agreements, and such debt securities are also guaranteed as to payment of interest and principal by the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, a federally chartered instrumentality of the U.S. ( Farmer Mac ). The obligations
under these funding agreements are secured by a pledge of certain eligible agricultural real estate mortgage loans and may, under certain circumstances, be secured by other qualified collateral. The amount of collateral presented is at carrying
value.      

         233

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Liabilities for Unpaid Claims and Claim Expenses     
  Information regarding the liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses relating to property and casualty, group
accident and non-medical health policies and contracts, which are reported in future policy benefits and other policy-related balances, was as follows:       

During 2012, 2011 and 2010, as a result of changes in estimates of insured events in the respective
prior year, claims and claim adjustment expenses associated with prior years decreased by $69 million, $199 million and $75 million, respectively, due to a reduction in prior year automobile bodily injury and homeowners  severity and
improved loss ratio for non-medical health claim liabilities.        Separate Accounts     
  Separate account assets and liabilities include two categories of account types: pass-through separate accounts totaling
$185.9 billion and $158.8 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, for which the policyholder assumes all investment risk, and separate accounts for which the Company contractually guarantees either a minimum return or account
value to the policyholder which totaled $49.5 billion and $44.2 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The latter category consisted primarily of funding agreements and participating close-out contracts. The average
interest rate credited on these contracts was 2.80% and 3.12% at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   
  For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, there were no investment gains (losses) on transfers of assets
from the general account to the separate accounts.   
         234

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

      5.  Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs, Value of Business Acquired and Other Policy-Related
Intangibles    
   See Note 1 for a description of capitalized acquisition costs.   
      Non-Participating and
Non-Dividend-Paying Traditional Contracts         The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to these
contracts (term insurance, non-participating whole life insurance, traditional group life insurance, non-medical health insurance, and accident and health insurance) over the appropriate premium paying period in proportion to the actual historic and
expected future gross premiums that were set at contract issue. The expected premiums are based upon the premium requirement of each policy and assumptions for mortality, morbidity, persistency and investment returns at policy issuance, or policy
acquisition (as it relates to VOBA), include provisions for adverse deviation, and are consistent with the assumptions used to calculate future policyholder benefit liabilities. These assumptions are not revised after policy issuance or acquisition
unless the DAC or VOBA balance is deemed to be unrecoverable from future expected profits. Absent a premium deficiency, variability in amortization after policy issuance or acquisition is caused only by variability in premium volumes.   
     Participating, Dividend-Paying Traditional Contracts      
  The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to these contracts over the estimated lives of the contracts in proportion to
actual and expected future gross margins. The amortization includes interest based on rates in effect at inception or acquisition of the contracts. The future gross margins are dependent principally on investment returns, policyholder dividend
scales, mortality, persistency, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation. For participating contracts within the closed block (dividend-paying traditional
contracts) future gross margins are also dependent upon changes in the policyholder dividend obligation. See Note 7. Of these factors, the Company anticipates that investment returns, expenses, persistency and other factor changes, as well as
policyholder dividend scales are reasonably likely to impact significantly the rate of DAC and VOBA amortization. Each reporting period, the Company updates the estimated gross margins with the actual gross margins for that period. When the actual
gross margins change from previously estimated gross margins, the cumulative DAC and VOBA amortization is re-estimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge or credit to current operations. When actual gross margins exceed those previously estimated,
the DAC and VOBA amortization will increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the actual gross margins are below the previously estimated gross margins. Each reporting period, the Company also updates
the actual amount of business in-force, which impacts expected future gross margins. When expected future gross margins are below those previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization will increase, resulting in a current period charge to
earnings. The opposite result occurs when the expected future gross margins are above the previously estimated expected future gross margins. Each period, the Company also reviews the estimated gross margins for each block of business to determine
the recoverability of DAC and VOBA balances.         Fixed and Variable Universal Life Contracts and Fixed and Variable
Deferred Annuity Contracts         The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to these contracts over the
estimated lives of the contracts in proportion to actual and expected future gross profits. The amortization includes interest based on rates in effect at inception or acquisition of the contracts. The amount of future gross profits is dependent
principally upon returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, persistency, interest crediting rates, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties, the effect of any hedges used and
certain economic variables, such as inflation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates that investment returns, expenses and persistency are reasonably likely to impact significantly the rate of DAC and VOBA amortization. Each reporting period,
the Company updates the estimated gross profits with the actual gross   
         235

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
profits for that period. When the actual gross profits change from previously estimated gross profits, the cumulative DAC and VOBA amortization is re-estimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge
or credit to current operations. When actual gross profits exceed those previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization will increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the actual gross profits are
below the previously estimated gross profits. Each reporting period, the Company also updates the actual amount of business remaining in-force, which impacts expected future gross profits. When expected future gross profits are below those
previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization will increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the expected future gross profits are above the previously estimated expected future gross profits.
Each period, the Company also reviews the estimated gross profits for each block of business to determine the recoverability of DAC and VOBA balances.         Credit Insurance, Property and Casualty Insurance and Other Short-Duration Contracts         The Company amortizes DAC for these contracts, which is primarily composed of commissions and certain underwriting expenses, in proportion to historic and future earned premium over the applicable
contract term.         Factors Impacting Amortization      
  Separate account rates of return on variable universal life contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts affect
in-force account balances on such contracts each reporting period which can result in significant fluctuations in amortization of DAC and VOBA. Returns that are higher than the Company s long-term expectation produce higher account balances,
which increases the Company s future fee expectations and decreases future benefit payment expectations on minimum death and living benefit guarantees, resulting in higher expected future gross profits. The opposite result occurs when returns
are lower than the Company s long-term expectation. The Company s practice to determine the impact of gross profits resulting from returns on separate accounts assumes that long-term appreciation in equity markets is not changed by
short-term market fluctuations, but is only changed when sustained interim deviations are expected. The Company monitors these events and only changes the assumption when its long-term expectation changes.   
  The Company also periodically reviews other long-term assumptions underlying the projections of estimated gross margins
and profits. These assumptions primarily relate to investment returns, policyholder dividend scales, interest crediting rates, mortality, persistency and expenses to administer business. Management annually updates assumptions used in the
calculation of estimated gross margins and profits which may have significantly changed. If the update of assumptions causes expected future gross margins and profits to increase, DAC and VOBA amortization will decrease, resulting in a current
period increase to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the assumption update causes expected future gross margins and profits to decrease.      Periodically, the Company modifies product benefits, features, rights or coverages that occur by the exchange of a contract for a new contract, or by amendment, endorsement, or rider to a contract, or by
election or coverage within a contract. If such modification, referred to as an internal replacement, substantially changes the contract, the associated DAC or VOBA is written off immediately through income and any new deferrable costs associated
with the replacement contract are deferred. If the modification does not substantially change the contract, the DAC or VOBA amortization on the original contract will continue and any acquisition costs associated with the related modification are
expensed.      Amortization of DAC and VOBA is attributed to both investment gains and losses and to other
expenses for the amount of gross margins or profits originating from transactions other than investment gains and losses. Unrealized investment gains and losses represent the amount of DAC and VOBA that would have been amortized if such gains and
losses had been recognized.   

         236

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Information regarding DAC and VOBA was as follows:   

See Note 1 for information on the retrospective application of the adoption of new accounting guidance
related to DAC.      Information regarding total DAC and VOBA by segment, as well as Corporate   Other,
was as follows at:       

237

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Information regarding other policy-related intangibles was as follows:

(1)  
    In connection with the Company s annual impairment testing of VOCRA, it was determined that the VOCRA included in the Group,
Voluntary   Worksite Benefits segment, associated with a previously acquired dental business, was impaired as the undiscounted future cash flows associated with the asset were lower than its current carrying value. This shortfall in
undiscounted future cash flows is primarily the result of actual persistency experience being less favorable than what was assumed when the asset was acquired. As a result of this impairment, the Company wrote the asset down to its estimated fair
value, which was determined using the discounted cash flow valuation approach. The Company recorded a non-cash charge of $77 million ($50 million, net of income tax) for the impairment of the VOCRA balance to other expenses in the consolidated
statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2012.      
   The estimated future amortization expense (credit) to be reported in other expenses for the next five
years is as follows:       

238

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

      6.  Reinsurance    

   The Company enters into reinsurance agreements primarily as a
purchaser for reinsurance for its various insurance products and also as a provider of reinsurance for some insurance products issued by third parties.
 The Company participates in reinsurance activities in order to limit losses, minimize exposure to significant risks and provide additional capacity for future growth.   
   Accounting for reinsurance requires extensive use of assumptions
and estimates, particularly related to the future performance of the underlying business and the potential impact of counterparty credit risks. The Company periodically reviews actual and anticipated experience compared to the aforementioned
assumptions used to establish assets and liabilities relating to ceded and assumed reinsurance and evaluates the financial strength of counterparties to its reinsurance agreements using criteria similar to that evaluated in the security impairment
process discussed in Note 8.   
     Americas   Excluding Latin America     
  For its Retail Life   Other insurance products, the Company has historically reinsured the mortality risk
primarily on an excess of retention basis or on a quota share basis. The Company currently reinsures 90% of the mortality risk in excess of $2 million for most products and reinsures up to 90% of the mortality risk for certain other products.
In addition to reinsuring mortality risk as described above, the Company reinsures other risks, as well as specific coverages. Placement of reinsurance is done primarily on an automatic basis and also on a facultative basis for risks with specified
characteristics. On a case by case basis, the Company may retain up to $20 million per life and reinsure 100% of amounts in excess of the amount the Company retains. The Company evaluates its reinsurance programs routinely and may increase or
decrease its retention at any time.      The Company s Retail Annuities business reinsures a portion of the
living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with its variable annuities. Under these reinsurance agreements, the Company pays a reinsurance premium generally based on fees associated with the guarantees collected from policyholders, and
receives reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account values, subject to certain limitations. The value of the embedded derivatives on the ceded risk is determined using a methodology consistent with the guarantees directly
written by the Company with the exception of the input for nonperformance risk that reflects the credit of the reinsurer.      The Company s Corporate Benefit Funding segment periodically engages in reinsurance activities, as considered appropriate. The impact of these activities on the financial results of this segment has
not been significant.      The Company, through its property   casualty business within both the Retail
and Group, Voluntary and Worksite Benefits segments, purchases reinsurance to manage its exposure to large losses (primarily catastrophe losses) and to protect statutory surplus. The Company cedes to reinsurers losses and premiums based upon the
exposure of the policies subject to reinsurance. To manage exposure to large property and casualty losses, the Company purchases property catastrophe, casualty and property per risk excess of loss reinsurance protection.   
  For other policies, the Company generally retains most of the risk and cedes particular risks on certain client
arrangements.        Latin America, Asia and EMEA     
  For life insurance products, the Company currently reinsures, depending on the product, risks in excess of
$5 million to external reinsurers on a yearly renewable term basis. The Company may also reinsure certain risks   
         239

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
with external reinsurers depending upon the nature of the risk and local regulatory requirements. For selected large corporate clients, the Company reinsures group employee benefits or credit
insurance business with various client-affiliated reinsurance companies, covering policies issued to the employees or customers of the clients. Additionally, the Company cedes and assumes risk with other insurance companies when either company
requires a business partner with the appropriate local licensing to issue certain types of policies in certain countries. In these cases, the assuming company typically underwrites the risks, develops the products and assumes most or all of the
risk. The Company also has reinsurance agreements in force that reinsure a portion of the living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with variable annuity products. Under these agreements, the Company pays reinsurance fees associated
with the guarantees collected from policyholders, and receives reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account values, subject to certain limitations.        Corporate   Other        The Company also
reinsures, through 100% quota share reinsurance agreements, certain run-off LTC and workers  compensation business written by MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut ( MICC ).   
  Corporate   Other also has a reinsurance agreement, whereby it assumes the living and death benefit guarantees
issued in connection with variable annuity products. Under this agreement, the Company receives reinsurance fees associated with the guarantees collected from policyholders, and provides reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of
account values, subject to certain limitations.        Catastrophe Coverage     
  The Company has exposure to catastrophes which could contribute to significant fluctuations in the Company s results
of operations. In the Americas, excluding Latin America, the Company uses excess of retention and quota share reinsurance agreements to provide greater diversification of risk and minimize exposure to larger risks. Currently, for Latin America, Asia
and EMEA, the Company purchases catastrophe coverage to insure risks within certain countries deemed by management to be exposed to the greatest catastrophic risks.        Reinsurance Recoverables        The Company reinsures its
business through a diversified group of well-capitalized, highly rated reinsurers. The Company analyzes recent trends in arbitration and litigation outcomes in disputes, if any, with its reinsurers. The Company monitors ratings and evaluates the
financial strength of its reinsurers by analyzing their financial statements. In addition, the reinsurance recoverable balance due from each reinsurer is evaluated as part of the overall monitoring process. Recoverability of reinsurance recoverable
balances is evaluated based on these analyses. The Company generally secures large reinsurance recoverable balances with various forms of collateral, including secured trusts, funds withheld accounts and irrevocable letters of credit. These
reinsurance recoverable balances are stated net of allowances for uncollectible reinsurance, which at December 31, 2012 and 2011, were immaterial.      The Company has secured certain reinsurance recoverable balances with various forms of collateral, including secured trusts, funds withheld accounts and irrevocable letters of credit. The Company had
$5.7 billion and $5.6 billion of unsecured reinsurance recoverable balances at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.      At December 31, 2012, the Company had $14.1 billion of net ceded reinsurance recoverables. Of this total, $10.4 billion, or 74%, were with the Company s five largest ceded reinsurers,
including $2.8 billion of net ceded reinsurance recoverables which were unsecured. At December 31, 2011, the Company had $13.5 billion of net ceded reinsurance recoverables. Of this total, $10.3 billion, or 76%, were with the
Company s five largest ceded reinsurers, including $3.2 billion of net ceded reinsurance recoverables which were unsecured.   
         240

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The Company has reinsured with an unaffiliated third-party reinsurer,
49.25% of the closed block through a modified coinsurance agreement. The Company accounts for this agreement under the deposit method of accounting. The Company, having the right of offset, has offset the modified coinsurance deposit with the
deposit recoverable.      The amounts in the consolidated statements of operations include the impact of
reinsurance. Information regarding the significant effects of reinsurance was as follows:       

241

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The amounts in the consolidated balance sheets include the impact of
reinsurance. Information regarding the significant effects of reinsurance was as follows at:       

Reinsurance agreements that do not expose the Company to a reasonable possibility of a significant loss
from insurance risk are recorded using the deposit method of accounting. The deposit assets on reinsurance were $2.3 billion and $2.4 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The deposit liabilities on reinsurance were
$45 million and $66 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   
      7.  Closed Block    

   On April 7, 2000 (the  Demutualization Date ), MLIC
converted from a mutual life insurance company to a stock life insurance company and became a wholly-owned subsidiary of MetLife, Inc. The conversion was pursuant to an order by the New York Superintendent of Insurance approving MLIC s plan of
reorganization, as amended (the  Plan ). On the Demutualization Date, MLIC established a closed block for the benefit of holders of certain individual life insurance policies of MLIC. Assets have been allocated to the closed block in an
amount that has been determined to produce cash flows which, together with anticipated revenues from the policies included in the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and liabilities relating to these
policies, including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain expenses and taxes, and to provide for the continuation of policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the experience underlying such dividend scales
continues, and for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. At least annually, the Company compares actual and projected experience against the experience assumed in the then-current dividend scales. Dividend scales are
adjusted periodically to give effect to changes in experience.      The closed block assets, the cash flows
generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenues from the policies in the closed block will benefit only the holders of the policies in the closed block. To the extent that, over time, cash flows from the assets allocated to the
closed block and claims and other experience related to the closed block are, in the aggregate, more or less favorable than what was assumed when the closed block was established, total dividends paid to closed block policyholders in the future may
be greater than or less than the total dividends that would have been paid to these policyholders if the policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999 had been continued. Any cash flows in excess of amounts assumed will be available for
distribution over time to closed block policyholders and will not be available to stockholders. If the closed block has insufficient   
         242

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
funds to make guaranteed policy benefit payments, such payments will be made from assets outside of the closed block. The closed block will continue in effect as long as any policy in the closed
block remains in-force. The expected life of the closed block is over 100 years.      The Company uses the
same accounting principles to account for the participating policies included in the closed block as it used prior to the Demutualization Date. However, the Company establishes a policyholder dividend obligation for earnings that will be paid to
policyholders as additional dividends as described below. The excess of closed block liabilities over closed block assets at the Demutualization Date (adjusted to eliminate the impact of related amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income)
represents the estimated maximum future earnings from the closed block expected to result from operations attributed to the closed block after income taxes. Earnings of the closed block are recognized in income over the period the policies and
contracts in the closed block remain in-force. Management believes that over time the actual cumulative earnings of the closed block will approximately equal the expected cumulative earnings due to the effect of dividend changes. If, over the period
the closed block remains in existence, the actual cumulative earnings of the closed block are greater than the expected cumulative earnings of the closed block, the Company will pay the excess of the actual cumulative earnings of the closed block
over the expected cumulative earnings to closed block policyholders as additional policyholder dividends unless offset by future unfavorable experience of the closed block and, accordingly, will recognize only the expected cumulative earnings in
income with the excess recorded as a policyholder dividend obligation. If over such period, the actual cumulative earnings of the closed block are less than the expected cumulative earnings of the closed block, the Company will recognize only the
actual earnings in income. However, the Company may change policyholder dividend scales in the future, which would be intended to increase future actual earnings until the actual cumulative earnings equal the expected cumulative earnings.
     Experience within the closed block, in particular mortality and investment yields, as well as realized and
unrealized gains and losses, directly impact the policyholder dividend obligation. Amortization of the closed block DAC, which resides outside of the closed block, is based upon cumulative actual and expected earnings within the closed block.
Accordingly, the Company s net income continues to be sensitive to the actual performance of the closed block.   

   Closed block assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are combined on a
line-by-line basis with the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses outside the closed block based on the nature of the particular item.   

         243

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Information regarding the closed block liabilities and assets designated
to the closed block was as follows:       

Information regarding the closed block policyholder dividend obligation was as follows:   

244

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Information regarding the closed block revenues and expenses was as
follows:       

MLIC charges the closed block with federal income taxes, state and local premium taxes and other
additive state or local taxes, as well as investment management expenses relating to the closed block as provided in the Plan. MLIC also charges the closed block for expenses of maintaining the policies included in the closed block.   
      8.  Investments    
   See Note 10 for information about the fair value hierarchy for investments and the related
valuation methodologies.        Investment Risks and Uncertainties     
   Investments are exposed to the following primary sources of risk: credit,
interest rate, liquidity, market valuation, currency and real estate risk. The financial statement risks, stemming from such investment risks, are those associated with the determination of estimated fair values, the diminished ability to sell
certain investments in times of strained market conditions, the recognition of impairments, the recognition of income on certain investments and the potential consolidation of VIEs. The use of different methodologies, assumptions and inputs relating
to these financial statement risks may have a material effect on the amounts presented within the consolidated financial statements.      The determination of valuation allowances and impairments is highly subjective and is based upon periodic evaluations and assessments of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset
class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available.   
         245

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The recognition of income on certain investments (e.g. structured
securities, including mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities ( ABS ), certain structured investment transactions and FVO and trading securities) is dependent upon certain factors such as prepayments and defaults, and changes
in such factors could result in changes in amounts to be earned.   
     Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities AFS     
     Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities AFS by Sector      
  The following table presents the fixed maturity and equity securities AFS by sector. The unrealized loss amounts
presented below include the noncredit loss component of OTTI losses. Redeemable preferred stock is reported within U.S. corporate and foreign corporate fixed maturity securities and non-redeemable preferred stock is reported within equity
securities. Included within fixed maturity securities are structured securities including RMBS, CMBS and ABS.       

(1)  
    OTTI losses, as presented above, represent the noncredit portion of OTTI losses that is included in AOCI. OTTI losses include both the initial
recognition of noncredit losses, and the effects of subsequent increases and decreases in estimated fair value for those fixed maturity securities that were previously noncredit loss impaired. The noncredit loss component of OTTI losses for foreign
corporate securities was in an unrealized gain position of $1 million at December 31, 2012 due to increases in estimated fair value subsequent to initial recognition of noncredit losses on such securities. See also   Net Unrealized
Investment Gains (Losses).       

         246

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The Company held non-income producing fixed maturity securities with an
estimated fair value of $85 million and $62 million with unrealized gains (losses) of $11 million and ($19) million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   
    Methodology for Amortization of Discount or Premium on Structured Securities     
   Amortization of the discount or premium on structured securities considers the
estimated timing and amount of prepayments of the underlying loans. Actual prepayment experience is periodically reviewed and effective yields are recalculated when differences arise between the originally anticipated and the actual prepayments
received and currently anticipated. Prepayment assumptions for single class and multi-class mortgage-backed and ABS are estimated using inputs obtained from third-party specialists and based on management s knowledge of the current market. For
credit-sensitive mortgage-backed and ABS and certain prepayment-sensitive securities, the effective yield is recalculated on a prospective basis. For all other mortgage-backed and ABS, the effective yield is recalculated on a retrospective basis.
  
          Maturities of Fixed Maturity Securities          
  The amortized cost and estimated fair value of fixed maturity securities, by contractual maturity date, were as follows
at:       

Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities due to the exercise of
call or prepayment options. Fixed maturity securities not due at a single maturity date have been presented in the year of final contractual maturity. RMBS, CMBS and ABS are shown separately, as they are not due at a single maturity.   

         247

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
      Continuous Gross Unrealized Losses for Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities AFS
by Sector         The following table presents the estimated fair value and gross unrealized losses of
fixed maturity and equity securities AFS in an unrealized loss position, aggregated by sector and by length of time that the securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position. The unrealized loss amounts include the noncredit component
of OTTI loss.       

Evaluation of AFS Securities for OTTI and Evaluating Temporarily Impaired AFS Securities
          Evaluation and Measurement Methodologies     
   Management considers a wide range of factors about the security
issuer and uses its best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent in management s evaluation of the security are assumptions and
estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations used in the impairment evaluation   
         248

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
process include, but are not limited to: (i) the length of time and the extent to which the estimated fair value has been below cost or amortized cost; (ii) the potential for
impairments of securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties; (iii) the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub-sector; (iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically
depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources; (vi) with respect to fixed
maturity securities, whether the Company has the intent to sell or will more likely than not be required to sell a particular security before the decline in estimated fair value below amortized cost recovers; (vii) with respect to structured
securities, changes in forecasted cash flows after considering the quality of underlying collateral, expected prepayment speeds, current and forecasted loss severity, consideration of the payment terms of the underlying assets backing a particular
security, and the payment priority within the tranche structure of the security; and (viii) other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies.   
  The methodology and significant inputs used to determine the amount of credit loss on fixed maturity
securities are as follows:       

The Company calculates the recovery value by performing a discounted cash flow analysis based on the present value of future cash flows. The
discount rate is generally the effective interest rate of the security prior to impairment.          

When determining collectability and the period over which value is expected to recover, the Company applies considerations utilized in its overall
impairment evaluation process which incorporates information regarding the specific security, fundamentals of the industry and geographic area in which the security issuer operates, and overall macroeconomic conditions. Projected future cash flows
are estimated using assumptions derived from management s best estimates of likely scenario-based outcomes after giving consideration to a variety of variables that include, but are not limited to: payment terms of the security; the likelihood
that the issuer can service the interest and principal payments; the quality and amount of any credit enhancements; the security s position within the capital structure of the issuer; possible corporate restructurings or asset sales by the
issuer; and changes to the rating of the security or the issuer by rating agencies.          

Additional considerations are made when assessing the unique features that apply to certain structured securities including, but not limited to: the
quality of underlying collateral, expected prepayment speeds; current and forecasted loss severity, consideration of the payment terms of the underlying loans or assets backing a particular security, and the payment priority within the tranche
structure of the security.          

When determining the amount of the credit loss for U.S. and foreign corporate securities, foreign government securities and state and political
subdivision securities, the estimated fair value is considered the recovery value when available information does not indicate that another value is more appropriate. When information is identified that indicates a recovery value other than
estimated fair value, management considers in the determination of recovery value the same considerations utilized in its overall impairment evaluation process as described in (ii) above, as well as private and public sector programs to
restructure such securities.         With respect to securities that have
attributes of debt and equity (perpetual hybrid securities), consideration is given in the OTTI analysis as to whether there has been any deterioration in the credit of the issuer and the likelihood of recovery in value of the securities that are in
a severe and extended unrealized loss position.   
         249

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
Consideration is also given as to whether any perpetual hybrid securities, with an unrealized loss, regardless of credit rating, have deferred any dividend payments. When an OTTI loss has
occurred, the OTTI loss is the entire difference between the perpetual hybrid security s cost and its estimated fair value with a corresponding charge to earnings.   
  The cost or amortized cost of fixed maturity and equity securities is adjusted for OTTI in the period in
which the determination is made. The Company does not change the revised cost basis for subsequent recoveries in value.      In periods subsequent to the recognition of OTTI on a fixed maturity security, the Company accounts for the impaired security as if it had been purchased on the measurement date of the impairment.
Accordingly, the discount (or reduced premium) based on the new cost basis is accreted over the remaining term of the fixed maturity security in a prospective manner based on the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows.   
     Current Period Evaluation     
  Based on the Company s current evaluation of its AFS securities in an unrealized loss position in
accordance with its impairment policy, and the Company s current intentions and assessments (as applicable to the type of security) about holding, selling and any requirements to sell these securities, the Company has concluded that these
securities are not other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2012. Future OTTI will depend primarily on economic fundamentals, issuer performance (including changes in the present value of future cash flows expected to be collected),
changes in credit ratings, changes in collateral valuation, changes in interest rates and changes in credit spreads. If economic fundamentals or any of the above factors deteriorate, additional OTTI may be incurred in upcoming periods.   
  Gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity securities in an unrealized loss position decreased
$3.8 billion during the year ended December 31, 2012 from $5.5 billion to $1.7 billion. The decline in, or improvement in, gross unrealized losses for the year ended December 31, 2012, was primarily attributable to narrowing
credit spreads and a decrease in interest rates.      At December 31, 2012, $659 million
of the total $1.7 billion of gross unrealized losses were from 183 fixed maturity securities with an unrealized loss position of 20% or more of amortized cost for six months or greater.   
    Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Securities     
  Of the $659 million of gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity securities with an unrealized loss
of 20% or more of amortized cost for six months or greater, $299 million, or 45%, are related to gross unrealized losses on 74 investment grade fixed maturity securities. Unrealized losses on investment grade fixed maturity securities are
principally related to widening credit spreads or rising interest rates since purchase.        Below Investment Grade Fixed
Maturity Securities        Of the $659 million of gross unrealized losses on fixed
maturity securities with an unrealized loss of 20% or more of amortized cost for six months or greater, $360 million, or 55%, are related to gross unrealized losses on 109 below investment grade fixed maturity securities. Unrealized losses on
below investment grade fixed maturity securities are principally related to non-agency RMBS (primarily alternative residential mortgage loans and sub-prime residential mortgage loans), U.S and foreign corporate securities (primarily utility and
financial services industry securities) and ABS (primarily collateralized debt obligations) and are   
         250

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
the result of significantly wider credit spreads resulting from higher risk premiums since purchase, largely due to economic and market uncertainties including concerns over the financial
services industry sector, unemployment levels and valuations of residential real estate supporting non-agency RMBS. Management evaluates these U.S. and foreign corporate securities based on factors such as expected cash flows and the financial
condition and near-term and long-term prospects of the issuer; and evaluates non-agency RMBS and ABS based on actual and projected cash flows after considering the quality of underlying collateral, expected prepayment speeds, current and forecasted
loss severity, consideration of the payment terms of the underlying assets backing a particular security, and the payment priority within the tranche structure of the security.   
    Equity Securities        Equity securities in an unrealized loss position decreased $140 million during the year ended December 31, 2012 from $299 million to $159 million. Of the $159 million,
$119 million were from 13 equity securities with gross unrealized losses of 20% or more of cost for 12 months or greater, of which 87% were financial services industry investment grade non-redeemable preferred stock, of which 75% were rated A,
AA, or AAA.        FVO and Trading Securities     
  See Note 10 for tables that present the four categories of securities that comprise FVO and trading securities. See
   Net Investment Income  and    Net Investment Gains (Losses)  for the net investment income recognized on FVO and trading securities and the related changes in estimated fair value subsequent to purchase
included in net investment income and net investment gains (losses) for securities still held as of the end of the respective years, as applicable.   
         251

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Mortgage Loans     
     Mortgage Loans Held-for-Investment and Held-for-Sale by Portfolio Segment      
  Mortgage loans are summarized as follows at:   

(1)  
    As a result of the MetLife Bank Divestiture described in Note 3, the Company has disposed of certain mortgage loans and de-recognized its
securitized reverse residential mortgage loans.          

(3)  
    See Note 1 for a discussion of securitized reverse residential mortgage loans.      
   See    Variable Interest Entities  for discussion of CSEs included in the table
above.   
         252

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
      Mortgage Loans and Valuation Allowance by Portfolio Segment
        The carrying value prior to valuation allowance ( recorded investment ) in mortgage
loans held-for-investment, by portfolio segment, by method of evaluation of credit loss, and the related valuation allowances, by type of credit loss, were as follows:       

Valuation Allowance Rollforward by Portfolio Segment      
  The changes in the valuation allowance, by portfolio segment, were as follows:   

(1)  
    The valuation allowance on and the related carrying value of certain residential mortgage loans held-for-investment were transferred to mortgage
loans held-for-sale in connection with the MetLife Bank Divestiture. See Note 3.      

         253

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Valuation Allowance Methodology     
   Mortgage loans are considered to be impaired when it is probable
that, based upon current information and events, the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due under the loan agreement. Specific valuation allowances are established using the same methodology for all three portfolio segments as the excess
carrying value of a loan over either (i) the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan s original effective interest rate, (ii) the estimated fair value of the loan s underlying collateral if the loan is
in the process of foreclosure or otherwise collateral dependent, or (iii) the loan s observable market price. A common evaluation framework is used for establishing non-specific valuation allowances for all loan portfolio segments;
however, a separate non-specific valuation allowance is calculated and maintained for each loan portfolio segment that is based on inputs unique to each loan portfolio segment. Non-specific valuation allowances are established for pools of loans
with similar risk characteristics where a property-specific or market-specific risk has not been identified, but for which the Company expects to incur a credit loss. These evaluations are based upon several loan portfolio segment-specific factors,
including the Company s experience for loan losses, defaults and loss severity, and loss expectations for loans with similar risk characteristics. These evaluations are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available.
  
     Commercial and Agricultural Mortgage Loan Portfolio Segments     
   The Company typically uses several years of historical
experience in establishing non-specific valuation allowances which captures multiple economic cycles. For evaluations of commercial loans, in addition to historical experience, management considers factors that include the impact of a rapid change
to the economy, which may not be reflected in the loan portfolio, and recent loss and recovery trend experience as compared to historical loss and recovery experience. For evaluations of agricultural loans, in addition to historical experience,
management considers factors that include increased stress in certain sectors, which may be evidenced by higher delinquency rates, or a change in the number of higher risk loans. On a quarterly basis, management incorporates the impact of these
current market events and conditions on historical experience in determining the non-specific valuation allowance established for each portfolio segment.   
  All commercial loans are reviewed on an ongoing basis which may include an analysis of the property
financial statements and rent roll, lease rollover analysis, property inspections, market analysis, estimated valuations of the underlying collateral, loan-to-value ratios, debt service coverage ratios, and tenant creditworthiness. All agricultural
loans are monitored on an ongoing basis. The monitoring process focuses on higher risk loans, which include those that are classified as restructured, potentially delinquent, delinquent or in foreclosure, as well as loans with higher loan-to-value
ratios and lower debt service coverage ratios. The monitoring process for agricultural loans is generally similar to the commercial loan monitoring process, with a focus on higher risk loans, including reviews on a geographic and property-type
basis. Higher risk loans are reviewed individually on an ongoing basis for potential credit loss and specific valuation allowances are established using the methodology described above for all loan portfolio segments. Quarterly, the remaining loans
are reviewed on a pool basis by aggregating groups of loans that have similar risk characteristics for potential credit loss, and non-specific valuation allowances are established as described above using inputs that are unique to each segment of
the loan portfolio.      For commercial loans, the primary credit quality indicator is the debt
service coverage ratio, which compares a property s net operating income to amounts needed to service the principal and interest due under the loan. Generally, the lower the debt service coverage ratio, the higher the risk of experiencing a
credit loss. The Company also reviews the loan-to-value ratio of its commercial loan portfolio. Loan-to-value ratios compare the unpaid principal balance of the loan to the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral.
  
         254

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
Generally, the higher the loan-to-value ratio, the higher the risk of experiencing a credit loss. The debt service coverage ratio and loan-to-value ratio, as well as the values utilized in
calculating these ratios, are updated annually, on a rolling basis, with a portion of the loan portfolio updated each quarter.      For agricultural loans, the Company s primary credit quality indicator is the loan-to-value ratio. The values utilized in calculating this ratio are developed in connection with the ongoing review of
the agricultural loan portfolio and are routinely updated. Additionally, the Company focuses the monitoring process on higher risk loans, including reviews on a geographic and property-type basis.   
     Residential Mortgage Loan Portfolio Segment     
   The Company s residential loan portfolio is comprised
primarily of closed end, amortizing residential loans. For evaluations of residential loans, the key inputs of expected frequency and expected loss reflect current market conditions, with expected frequency adjusted, when appropriate, for
differences from market conditions and the Company s historical experience. In contrast to the commercial and agricultural loan portfolios, residential loans are smaller-balance homogeneous loans that are collectively evaluated for impairment.
Non-specific valuation allowances are established using the evaluation framework described above for pools of loans with similar risk characteristics from inputs that are unique to the residential segment of the loan portfolio. Loan specific
valuation allowances are only established on residential loans when they have been restructured and are established using the methodology described above for all loan portfolio segments.   
  For residential loans, the Company s primary credit quality indicator is whether the loan is
performing or non-performing. The Company generally defines non-performing residential loans as those that are 90 or more days past due and/or in non-accrual status which is assessed monthly. Generally, non-performing residential loans have a higher
risk of experiencing a credit loss.   
      Credit Quality of Commercial Mortgage Loans      
  Information about the credit quality of commercial mortgage loans held-for-investment is presented below at:   

255

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
      Credit Quality of Agricultural Mortgage Loans      
  Information about the credit quality of agricultural mortgage loans held-for-investment is presented below at:   

The estimated fair value of agricultural mortgage loans held-for-investment was $13.3 billion and $13.6
billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.         Credit Quality of Residential Mortgage Loans
        Information about the credit quality of residential mortgage loans held-for-investment is
presented below at:       

The estimated fair value of residential mortgage loans held-for-investment was $1.0 billion and
$737 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   
         256

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
      Past Due and Interest Accrual Status of Mortgage Loans      
  The Company has a high quality, well performing, mortgage loan portfolio, with 99% of all mortgage loans classified as
performing at both December 31, 2012 and 2011.
 The Company defines delinquent mortgage loans consistent with industry practice, when interest and principal payments are past due as follows: commercial and residential mortgage loans   60 days; and
agricultural mortgage loans   90 days.
 The recorded investment in mortgage loans held-for-investment, prior to valuation allowances, past due according to these aging categories, greater than 90 days past due and still accruing interest and in nonaccrual status, by
portfolio segment, were as follows at:       

Impaired Mortgage Loans      
  Information regarding impaired mortgage loans held-for-investment, including those modified in a troubled debt
restructuring, by portfolio segment, were as follows at and for the periods ended:       

Unpaid principal balance is generally prior to any charge-offs. Interest income recognized is primarily
cash basis income. The average recorded investment for commercial, agricultural and residential mortgage loans was $192 million, $284 million, $16 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2010; and interest income recognized for
commercial, agricultural and residential mortgage loans was $6 million, $8 million and $0, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2010.   
         257

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
      Mortgage Loans Modified in a Troubled Debt Restructuring     
   For a small portion of the mortgage loan portfolio, classified as troubled debt
restructurings, concessions are granted related to borrowers experiencing financial difficulties. Generally, the types of concessions include: reduction of the contractual interest rate, extension of the maturity date at an interest rate lower than
current market interest rates, and/or a reduction of accrued interest. The amount, timing and extent of the concession granted is considered in determining any impairment or changes in the specific valuation allowance recorded with the
restructuring. Through the continuous monitoring process, a specific valuation allowance may have been recorded prior to the quarter when the mortgage loan is modified in a troubled debt restructuring. Accordingly, the carrying value (after specific
valuation allowance) before and after modification through a troubled debt restructuring may not change significantly, or may increase if the expected recovery is higher than the pre-modification recovery assessment.
 The number of mortgage loans and carrying value after specific valuation allowance of mortgage loans modified during the period in a troubled debt restructuring were as follows:   

There were no mortgage loans during the previous 12 months modified in a troubled debt restructuring
with a subsequent payment default at December 31, 2012. During the 12 months ended December 31, 2011, the Company had four agricultural mortgage loans, with a carrying value after specific valuation allowance of $13 million, modified
in a troubled debt restructuring with a subsequent payment default. Payment default is determined in the same manner as delinquency status   when interest and principal payments are past due.   
    Other Invested Assets        Other invested assets is comprised primarily of freestanding derivatives with positive estimated fair values (see Note 9), tax credit partnerships, and leveraged leases.   
     Leveraged Leases         Investment in leveraged leases, included in other invested assets, consisted of the following:       

258

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Rental receivables are generally due in periodic installments. The
payment periods range from one to 15 years but, in certain circumstances can be over 30 years.
 For rental receivables, the primary credit quality indicator is whether the rental receivable is performing or non-performing, which is assessed monthly. The Company generally defines non-performing rental
receivables as those that are 90 days or more past due.
 At December 31, 2012 and 2011, all rental receivables were performing.      The deferred
income tax liability related to leveraged leases was $1.6 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.      The components of income from investment in leveraged leases, excluding net investment gains (losses) were as follows:       

Cash Equivalents     
  The carrying value of cash equivalents, which includes securities and other investments with an original or remaining
maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase, was $6.1 billion and $5.0 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   
         259

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Net Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses)     
  The components of net unrealized investment gains (losses), included in AOCI, were as follows:   

The changes in fixed maturity securities with noncredit OTTI losses included in AOCI were as follows:

260

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The changes in net unrealized investment gains (losses) were as follows:

Concentrations of Credit Risk     
  Investments in any counterparty that were greater than 10% of the Company s equity, other than the U.S. government
and its agencies, were in fixed income securities of the Japan government and its agencies of $22.4 billion and $21.0 billion, at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The Company s investment in fixed maturity
and equity securities to counterparties that primarily conduct business in Japan were $28.7 billion and $28.4 billion, including Japan government and agency fixed maturity securities, at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   
         261

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Securities Lending     
  As described in Note 1, the Company participates in a securities lending program. Elements of the securities lending
program are presented below at:       

(1)  
    Included within fixed maturity securities, equity securities and short-term investments.      

(2)  
    Included within payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions.      

(3)  
    Security collateral on deposit from counterparties may not be sold or repledged, unless the counterparty is in default, and is not reflected in the
consolidated financial statements.      
     Invested Assets on Deposit, Held in Trust and Pledged as Collateral     
  Invested assets on deposit, held in trust and pledged as collateral are presented below at estimated fair value for cash
and cash equivalents, short-term investments, fixed maturity and equity securities, and FVO and trading securities, and at carrying value for mortgage loans.       

(1)  
    The Company has pledged fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans and cash and cash equivalents in connection with various agreements and
transactions, including funding and advances agreements (see Notes 4 and 12), collateral financing arrangements (see Note 13) and derivative transactions (see Note 9).      
     Purchased Credit Impaired Investments     
   Investments acquired with evidence of credit quality deterioration since
origination and for which it is probable at the acquisition date that the Company will be unable to collect all contractually required payments are classified as purchased credit impaired ( PCI ) investments. For each investment, the
excess of the cash flows expected to be collected as of the acquisition date over its acquisition-date fair value is referred to as the accretable yield and is recognized as net investment income on an effective yield basis. If subsequently, based
on   
         262

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
current information and events, it is probable that there is a significant increase in cash flows previously expected to be collected or if actual cash flows are significantly greater than cash
flows previously expected to be collected, the accretable yield is adjusted prospectively. The excess of the contractually required payments (including interest) as of the acquisition date over the cash flows expected to be collected as of the
acquisition date is referred to as the nonaccretable difference, and this amount is not expected to be realized as net investment income. Decreases in cash flows expected to be collected can result in OTTI or the recognition of mortgage loan
valuation allowances (see Note 1).   
   The Company s PCI investments, by invested asset class, were as follows at:   

(1)  
    Represents the contractually required payments, which is the sum of contractual principal, whether or not currently due, and accrued interest.

(2)  
    Estimated fair value plus accrued interest for fixed maturity securities and amortized cost, plus accrued interest, less any valuation allowances,
for mortgage loans.      
   The following table presents information about PCI investments acquired during the periods indicated:

(1)  
    Represents undiscounted principal and interest cash flow expectations, at the date of acquisition.      
   The following table presents activity for the accretable yield on PCI investments for:   

263

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Collectively Significant Equity Method Investments     
  The Company holds investments in real estate joint ventures, real estate funds and other limited partnership interests
consisting of leveraged buy-out funds, hedge funds, private equity funds, joint ventures and other funds. The portion of these investments accounted for under the equity method had a carrying value of $10.6 billion at December 31, 2012. The
Company s maximum exposure to loss related to these equity method investments is limited to the carrying value of these investments plus unfunded commitments of $3.0 billion at December 31, 2012. Except for certain real estate joint
ventures, the Company s investments in real estate funds and other limited partnership interests are generally of a passive nature in that the Company does not participate in the management of the entities.   
   As described in Note 1, the Company generally records its share of earnings in
its equity method investments using a three-month lag methodology and within net investment income. Aggregate net investment income from these equity method investments exceeded 10% of the Company s consolidated pre-tax income (loss) from
continuing operations for two of the three most recent annual periods: 2012 and 2010. The Company is providing the following aggregated summarized financial data for such equity method investments, for the most recent annual periods, in order to
provide comparative information. This aggregated summarized financial data does not represent the Company s proportionate share of the assets, liabilities, or earnings of such entities.   
   The aggregated summarized financial data presented below reflects the latest available financial
information and is as of, and for, the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. Aggregate total assets of these entities totaled $285.2 billion and $266.4 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Aggregate total
liabilities of these entities totaled $28.8 billion and $31.2 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Aggregate net income (loss) of these entities totaled $17.9 billion, $9.7 billion and $18.7 billion for the years ended
December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Aggregate net income (loss) from the underlying entities in which the Company invests is primarily comprised of investment income, including recurring investment income and realized and unrealized
investment gains (losses).        Variable Interest Entities     
   The Company has invested in certain structured transactions that are VIEs. In
certain instances, the Company holds both the power to direct the most significant activities of the entity, as well as an economic interest in the entity and, as such, is deemed to be the primary beneficiary or consolidator of the entity.
     The determination of the VIE s primary beneficiary requires an evaluation of the contractual and implied
rights and obligations associated with each party s relationship with or involvement in the entity, an estimate of the entity s expected losses and expected residual returns and the allocation of such estimates to each party involved in
the entity. The Company generally uses a qualitative approach to determine whether it is the primary beneficiary. However, for VIEs that are investment companies or apply measurement principles consistent with those utilized by investment companies,
the primary beneficiary is based on a risks and rewards model and is defined as the entity that will absorb a majority of a VIE s expected losses, receive a majority of a VIE s expected residual returns if no single entity absorbs a
majority of expected losses, or both. The Company reassesses its involvement with VIEs on a quarterly basis. The use of different methodologies, assumptions and inputs in the determination of the primary beneficiary could have a material effect on
the amounts presented within the consolidated financial statements.   

         264

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
      Consolidated VIEs      
  The following table presents the total assets and total liabilities relating to VIEs for which the Company has concluded
that it is the primary beneficiary and which are consolidated at December 31, 2012 and 2011. Creditors or beneficial interest holders of VIEs where the Company is the primary beneficiary have no recourse to the general credit of the Company, as
the Company s obligation to the VIEs is limited to the amount of its committed investment.       

(1)  
    The Company consolidates former QSPEs that are structured as CMBS and as collateralized debt obligations. The assets of these entities can only be
used to settle their respective liabilities, and under no circumstances is the Company liable for any principal or interest shortfalls should any arise. The assets and liabilities of these CSEs are primarily commercial mortgage loans
held-for-investment and long-term debt, respectively, and to a lesser extent include FVO and trading securities, accrued investment income, cash and cash equivalents, premiums, reinsurance and other receivables and other liabilities. The
Company s exposure was limited to that of its remaining investment in the former QSPEs of $168 million and $172 million at estimated fair value at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The long-term debt bears interest
primarily at fixed rates ranging from 2.25% to 5.57%, payable primarily on a monthly basis. Interest expense related to these obligations, included in other expenses, was $163 million, $324 million and $411 million for the years ended
December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 respectively.          

(2)  
    See Note 13 for a description of the MetLife Reinsurance Company of South Carolina ( MRSC ) collateral financing arrangement. These assets
primarily consist of fixed maturity securities and, to a much lesser extent, mortgage loans and cash and cash equivalents.      

         265

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
      Unconsolidated VIEs      
  The carrying amount and maximum exposure to loss relating to VIEs in which the Company holds a significant variable
interest but is not the primary beneficiary and which have not been consolidated were as follows at:       

(1)  
    The maximum exposure to loss relating to fixed maturity securities and the FVO and trading securities is equal to their carrying amounts or the
carrying amounts of retained interests. The maximum exposure to loss relating to other limited partnership interests and real estate joint ventures is equal to the carrying amounts plus any unfunded commitments of the Company. The maximum exposure
to loss relating to mortgage loans is equal to the carrying amounts plus any unfunded commitments of the Company. For certain of its investments in other invested assets, the Company s return is in the form of income tax credits which are
guaranteed by creditworthy third parties. For such investments, the maximum exposure to loss is equal to the carrying amounts plus any unfunded commitments, reduced by income tax credits guaranteed by third parties of $318 million and
$267 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Such a maximum loss would be expected to occur only upon bankruptcy of the issuer or investee.      

(2)  
    For these variable interests, the Company s involvement is limited to that of a passive investor.      
   As described in Note 21, the Company makes commitments to fund partnership investments in the normal
course of business. Excluding these commitments, the Company did not provide financial or other support to investees designated as VIEs during the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.   
         266

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Net Investment Income     
  The components of net investment income were as follows:   

(1)  
    Changes in estimated fair value subsequent to purchase for securities still held as of the end of the respective years included in net investment
income were:           

See    Variable Interest Entities  for discussion of CSEs included
in the table above.   
         267

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Net Investment Gains (Losses)     
     Components of Net Investment Gains (Losses)      
  The components of net investment gains (losses) were as follows:   

268

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)  
    Investment portfolio gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 includes a net gain (loss) of $37 million and ($153)
million, respectively, as a result of the MetLife Bank Divestiture, which is comprised of gains (losses) on investments sold of $78 million and $1 million, and impairments of ($41) million and ($154) million, respectively. See Note 3.

(2)  
    Non-investment portfolio gains (losses) for the year ended December 31, 2012 includes a gain of $33 million related to certain dispositions as
more fully described in Note 3. Non-investment portfolio gains (losses) for the year ended December 31, 2011 includes a loss of $106 million related to certain dispositions and a goodwill impairment loss of $65 million. See Notes 3 and 11.
Non-investment portfolio gains (losses) for the year ended December 31, 2010 includes a loss of $209 million related to a disposition. See Note 3.      
   See    Variable Interest Entities  for discussion of CSEs included in the table above.
     Gains (losses) from foreign currency transactions included within net investment gains (losses) were
($112) million, $37 million and $230 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.         Sales or Disposals and Impairments of Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities         Proceeds from sales or disposals of fixed maturity and equity securities and the components of fixed maturity and equity securities net investment gains (losses) are as shown in the table below.
Investment gains and losses on sales of securities are determined on a specific identification basis.       

(1)  
    Other OTTI losses recognized in earnings include impairments on (i) equity securities, (ii) perpetual hybrid securities classified within
fixed maturity securities where the primary reason for the impairment was the severity and/or the duration of an unrealized loss position and (iii) fixed maturity securities where there is an intent to sell or it is more likely than not that
the Company will be required to sell the security before recovery of the decline in estimated fair value.      

         269

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
      Credit Loss Rollforward      
  The table below presents a rollforward of the cumulative credit loss component of OTTI loss recognized in earnings on
fixed maturity securities still held for which a portion of the OTTI loss was recognized in OCI:       

Years Ended December 31,   

2012   

2011   

(In millions)   

Balance, at January 1,   
      
  $  
  471  

$  
  443  

Additions:   

Initial impairments   credit loss OTTI recognized on securities not previously impaired   

46  

45  

Additional impairments   credit loss OTTI recognized on securities previously impaired   

70  

143  

Reductions:   

Sales (maturities, pay downs or prepayments) during the period of securities previously impaired as credit loss
OTTI   

(176  
  )   

(90  
  )    
 
    Securities impaired to net present value of expected future cash flows   

(17  
  )   

(57  
  )    
 
    Increases in cash flows   accretion of previous credit loss OTTI   

(2  
  )   

(13  
  )    

Balance, at December 31,   
      
  $  
  392  

$  
  471  

9.  Derivatives    
     Accounting for Derivatives     
  See Note 1 for a description of the Company s accounting policies for derivatives and Note 10 for information about
the fair value hierarchy for derivatives.        Derivative Strategies     
  The Company is exposed to various risks relating to its ongoing business operations, including interest rate, foreign
currency exchange rate, credit and equity market. The Company uses a variety of strategies to manage these risks, including the use of derivatives.   
   Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest
rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit spreads and/or other financial indices. Derivatives may be exchange-traded or contracted in the over-the-counter ( OTC ) market. The types of derivatives the Company uses include swaps,
forwards, futures and option contracts. To a lesser extent, the Company uses credit default swaps and structured interest rate swaps to synthetically replicate investment risks and returns which are not readily available in the cash market. The
Company also purchases certain securities, issues certain insurance policies and investment contracts and engages in certain reinsurance agreements that have embedded derivatives.   
      Interest Rate Derivatives      
  The Company uses a variety of interest rate derivatives to reduce its exposure to changes in interest rates, including
interest rate swaps, caps, floors, swaptions, futures and forwards.      Interest rate swaps are used by the
Company primarily to reduce market risks from changes in interest rates and to alter interest rate exposure arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities (duration mismatches).   
         270

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
In an interest rate swap, the Company agrees with another party to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed rate and floating rate interest amounts as calculated by
reference to an agreed notional amount. The Company utilizes interest rate swaps in fair value, cash flow and non-qualifying hedging relationships.      The Company uses structured interest rate swaps to synthetically create investments that are either more expensive to acquire or otherwise unavailable in the cash markets. These transactions are a
combination of a derivative and a cash instrument such as a U.S. Treasury, agency, or other fixed maturity security. Structured interest rate swaps are included in interest rate swaps. Structured interest rate swaps are not designated as hedging
instruments      The Company purchases interest rate caps and floors primarily to protect its floating rate
liabilities against rises in interest rates above a specified level, and against interest rate exposure arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities, as well as to protect its minimum rate guarantee liabilities against declines in interest
rates below a specified level, respectively. In certain instances, the Company locks in the economic impact of existing purchased caps and floors by entering into offsetting written caps and floors. The Company utilizes interest rate caps and floors
in non-qualifying hedging relationships.      In exchange-traded interest rate (Treasury and swap) futures
transactions, the Company agrees to purchase or sell a specified number of contracts, the value of which is determined by the different classes of interest rate securities, and to post variation margin on a daily basis in an amount equal to the
difference in the daily market values of those contracts. The Company enters into exchange-traded futures with regulated futures commission merchants that are members of the exchange. Exchange-traded interest rate (Treasury and swap) futures are
used primarily to hedge mismatches between the duration of assets in a portfolio and the duration of liabilities supported by those assets, to hedge against changes in value of securities the Company owns or anticipates acquiring and to hedge
against changes in interest rates on anticipated liability issuances by replicating Treasury or swap curve performance. The Company utilizes exchange-traded interest rate futures in non-qualifying hedging relationships.   
  Swaptions are used by the Company to hedge interest rate risk associated with the Company s long-term liabilities
and invested assets. A swaption is an option to enter into a swap with a forward starting effective date. In certain instances, the Company locks in the economic impact of existing purchased swaptions by entering into offsetting written swaptions.
The Company pays a premium for purchased swaptions and receives a premium for written swaptions. The Company utilizes swaptions in non-qualifying hedging relationships. Swaptions are included in interest rate options.   
  The Company enters into interest rate forwards to buy and sell securities. The price is agreed upon at the time of the
contract and payment for such a contract is made at a specified future date. The Company also uses interest rate forwards to sell to be announced securities as economic hedges against the risk of changes in the fair value of mortgage loans
held-for-sale and interest rate lock commitments. The Company utilizes interest rate forwards in cash flow and non-qualifying hedging relationships.         Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Derivatives      
  The Company uses foreign currency exchange rate derivatives including foreign currency swaps, foreign currency forwards
and currency options, to reduce the risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates associated with its assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. The Company also uses foreign currency derivatives to hedge the foreign
currency exchange rate risk associated with certain of its net investments in foreign operations.   
         271

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   In a foreign currency swap transaction, the Company agrees with another
party to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between one currency and another at a fixed exchange rate, generally set at inception, calculated by reference to an agreed upon notional amount. The notional amount of each currency is
exchanged at the inception and termination of the currency swap by each party. The Company utilizes foreign currency swaps in fair value, cash flow and non-qualifying hedging relationships.   
  In a foreign currency forward transaction, the Company agrees with another party to deliver a specified amount of an
identified currency at a specified future date. The price is agreed upon at the time of the contract and payment for such a contract is made at the specified future date. The Company utilizes foreign currency forwards in fair value, net investment
in foreign operations and non-qualifying hedging relationships.      The Company enters into currency options that
give it the right, but not the obligation, to sell the foreign currency amount in exchange for a functional currency amount within a limited time at a contracted price. The contracts may also be net settled in cash, based on differentials in the
foreign exchange rate and the strike price. The Company uses currency options to hedge against the foreign currency exposure inherent in certain of its variable annuity products. The Company also uses currency options as an economic hedge of foreign
currency exposure related to the Company s international subsidiaries. The Company utilizes currency options in net investment in foreign operations and non-qualifying hedging relationships.   
  The Company uses certain of its foreign currency denominated funding agreements to hedge portions of its net investments
in foreign operations against adverse movements in exchange rates. Such contracts are included in non-derivative hedging instruments.      To a lesser extent, the Company uses exchange-traded currency futures to hedge currency mismatches between assets and liabilities.         Credit Derivatives         Credit derivatives
primarily include credit default swaps that are used by the Company to hedge against credit-related changes in the value of its investments. In a credit default swap transaction, the Company agrees with another party to pay, at specified intervals,
a premium to hedge credit risk. If a credit event occurs, as defined by the contract, the contract may be cash settled or it may be settled gross by the delivery of par quantities of the referenced investment equal to the specified swap notional in
exchange for the payment of cash amounts by the counterparty equal to the par value of the investment surrendered. Credit events vary by type of issuer but typically include bankruptcy, failure to pay debt obligations, repudiation, moratorium, or
involuntary restructuring. In each case, payout on a credit default swap is triggered only after the Credit Derivatives Determinations Committee of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. deems that a credit event has occurred. The
Company utilizes credit default swaps in non-qualifying hedging relationships.      Credit default swaps are also
used to synthetically create credit investments that are either more expensive to acquire or otherwise unavailable in the cash markets. These transactions are a combination of a derivative and one or more cash instruments, such as U.S. Treasury
securities, agency securities or other fixed maturity securities. The Company also enters into certain credit default swaps held in relation to trading portfolios for the purpose of generating profits on short-term differences in price. These credit
default swaps are not designated as hedging instruments.      The Company enters into forwards to lock in the
price to be paid for forward purchases of certain securities. The price is agreed upon at the time of the contract and payment for the contract is made at a specified future date. When the primary purpose of entering into these transactions is to
hedge against the risk of changes in purchase price due to changes in credit spreads, the Company designates these as credit forwards. The Company utilizes credit forwards in cash flow hedging relationships.   
         272

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
      Equity Derivatives      
  The Company uses a variety of equity derivatives to reduce its exposure to equity market risk, including equity index
options, variance swaps, exchange-traded equity futures and total rate of return swaps ( TRRs ).   
  Equity index options are used by the Company primarily to hedge minimum guarantees embedded in certain variable annuity
products offered by the Company. To hedge against adverse changes in equity indices, the Company enters into contracts to sell the equity index within a limited time at a contracted price. The contracts will be net settled in cash based on
differentials in the indices at the time of exercise and the strike price. Certain of these contracts may also contain settlement provisions linked to interest rates. In certain instances, the Company may enter into a combination of transactions to
hedge adverse changes in equity indices within a pre-determined range through the purchase and sale of options. The Company utilizes equity index options in non-qualifying hedging relationships.   
  Equity variance swaps are used by the Company primarily to hedge minimum guarantees embedded in certain variable annuity
products offered by the Company. In an equity variance swap, the Company agrees with another party to exchange amounts in the future, based on changes in equity volatility over a defined period. The Company utilizes equity variance swaps in
non-qualifying hedging relationships.      In exchange-traded equity futures transactions, the Company agrees to
purchase or sell a specified number of contracts, the value of which is determined by the different classes of equity securities, and to post variation margin on a daily basis in an amount equal to the difference in the daily market values of those
contracts. The Company enters into exchange-traded futures with regulated futures commission merchants that are members of the exchange. Exchange-traded equity futures are used primarily to hedge liabilities embedded in certain variable annuity
products offered by the Company. The Company utilizes exchange-traded equity futures in non-qualifying hedging relationships.      TRRs are swaps whereby the Company agrees with another party to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between the economic risk and reward of an asset or a market index and the London
Inter-Bank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ), calculated by reference to an agreed notional amount. No cash is exchanged at the outset of the contract. Cash is paid and received over the life of the contract based on the terms of the swap. The
Company uses TRRs to hedge its equity market guarantees in certain of its insurance products. TRRs can be used as hedges or to synthetically create investments. The Company utilizes TRRs in non-qualifying hedging relationships.   
         273

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Primary Risks Managed by Derivatives and Non-Derivative Hedging Instruments
       The following table presents the gross notional amount, estimated fair value and primary underlying
risk exposure of the Company s derivatives, excluding embedded derivatives, held at:       

274

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The estimated fair value of all derivatives in an asset position is
reported within other invested assets in the consolidated balance sheets and the estimated fair value of all derivatives in a liability position is reported within other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.   
    Net Derivative Gains (Losses)        The components of net derivative gains (losses) were as follows:       

(1)  
    Includes foreign currency transaction gains (losses) on hedged items in cash flow and non-qualifying hedging relationships, which are not presented
elsewhere in this note.      
   The following table presents earned income on derivatives for the:   

275

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Non-Qualifying Derivatives and Derivatives for Purposes Other Than Hedging
       The following table presents the amount and location of gains (losses) recognized in income for
derivatives that were not designated or qualifying as hedging instruments:       

(1)  
    Changes in estimated fair value related to economic hedges of equity method investments in joint ventures; changes in estimated fair value related
to derivatives held in relation to trading portfolios; and changes in estimated fair value related to derivatives held within contractholder-directed unit-linked investments.      

(2)  
    Changes in estimated fair value related to economic hedges of variable annuity guarantees included in future policy benefits.

(3)  
    Changes in estimated fair value related to derivatives held in connection with the Company s mortgage banking activities.

(4)  
    Changes in estimated fair value related to economic hedges of foreign currency exposure associated with the Company s international
subsidiaries.      
     Fair Value Hedges     
   The Company designates and accounts for the following as fair value hedges
when they have met the requirements of fair value hedging: (i) interest rate swaps to convert fixed rate assets and liabilities to floating rate assets and liabilities; (ii) foreign currency swaps to hedge the foreign currency fair value
exposure of foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities; and (iii) foreign currency forwards to hedge the foreign currency fair value exposure of foreign currency denominated fixed rate investments.   

         276

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The Company recognizes gains and losses on derivatives and the related
hedged items in fair value hedges within net derivative gains (losses). The following table presents the amount of such net derivative gains (losses):       

(1)  
    Fixed rate liabilities reported in PABs or future policy benefits.      

(2)  
    Fixed rate or floating rate liabilities.      
   For the Company s foreign currency forwards, the change in the fair value of the derivative related
to the changes in the difference between the spot price and the forward price is excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. For all other derivatives, all components of each derivative s gain or loss were included in the assessment of
hedge effectiveness. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, ($4) million and ($3) million, respectively, of the change in fair value of derivatives were excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. For the year ended
December 31, 2010, no component of the change in fair value of derivatives was excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.        Cash Flow Hedges     
   The Company designates and accounts for the following as cash flow hedges when
they have met the requirements of cash flow hedging: (i) interest rate swaps to convert floating rate assets and liabilities to fixed rate assets and liabilities; (ii) foreign currency swaps to hedge the foreign currency cash flow exposure
of foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities; (iii) interest rate forwards and credit forwards to lock in the price to be paid for forward purchases of investments; (iv) interest rate swaps and interest rate forwards to hedge the
forecasted purchases of fixed-rate investments; and (v) interest rate swaps and interest rate forwards to hedge forecasted fixed-rate borrowings.   

         277

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   In certain instances, the Company discontinued cash flow hedge
accounting because the forecasted transactions were no longer probable of occurring. Because certain of the forecasted transactions also were not probable of occurring within two months of the anticipated date, the Company reclassified $1 million,
($13) million and $9 million from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net derivative gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, related to such discontinued cash flow hedges.
     At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the maximum length of time over which the Company was hedging its
exposure to variability in future cash flows for forecasted transactions did not exceed eight years and nine years, respectively.      At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the balance in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) associated with cash flow hedges was $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively.   
  The following table presents the effects of derivatives in cash flow hedging relationships on the consolidated statements
of operations and the consolidated statements of equity:       

All components of each derivative s gain or loss were included in the assessment of hedge
effectiveness.      At December 31, 2012, ($6) million of deferred net gains (losses) on derivatives in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) was expected to be reclassified to earnings within the next 12 months.   
    Hedges of Net Investments in Foreign Operations     
   The Company uses foreign exchange derivatives, which may include foreign
currency forwards and currency options, to hedge portions of its net investments in foreign operations against adverse movements in exchange   
         278

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
rates. The Company measures ineffectiveness on these derivatives based upon the change in forward rates. In addition, the Company may also use non-derivative financial instruments to hedge
portions of its net investments in foreign operations against adverse movements in exchange rates. The Company measures ineffectiveness on non-derivative financial instruments based upon the change in spot rates.   
  When net investments in foreign operations are sold or substantially liquidated, the amounts in accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) are reclassified to the consolidated statements of operations, while a pro rata portion will be reclassified upon partial sale of the net investments in foreign operations.   
   The following table presents the effects of derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments in
net investment hedging relationships in the consolidated statements of operations and the consolidated statements of equity:       

(1)  
    During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2010, there were no sales or substantial liquidations of net investments in foreign operations
that would have required the reclassification of gains or losses from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into earnings. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company sold its interest in MSI MetLife, which was a hedged item in
a net investment hedging relationship. As a result, the Company released losses of $71 million from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) upon the sale. This release did not impact net income for the year ended December 31, 2011 as
such losses were considered in the overall impairment evaluation of the investment prior to sale. See Note 3.          

(2)  
    There was no ineffectiveness recognized for the Company s hedges of net investments in foreign operations. All components of each derivative
and non-derivative hedging instrument s gain or loss were included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness.      
   At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the cumulative foreign currency translation gain (loss) recorded in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) related to hedges of net investments in foreign operations was ($98) million and ($84) million, respectively.        Credit Derivatives        In connection with
synthetically created credit investment transactions and credit default swaps held in relation to the trading portfolio, the Company writes credit default swaps for which it receives a premium to insure credit risk. Such credit derivatives are
included within the non-qualifying derivatives and derivatives for purposes other than hedging table. If a credit event occurs, as defined by the contract, the contract may be cash settled or it may be settled gross by the Company paying the
counterparty the specified swap notional amount in exchange for the delivery of par quantities of the referenced credit obligation. The Company s maximum amount at risk, assuming the value of all referenced credit obligations is zero, was $8.9
billion and $7.7 billion at   
         279

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The Company can terminate these contracts at any time through cash settlement with the counterparty at an amount equal to the then current fair
value of the credit default swaps. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company would have received $74 million and paid $41 million, respectively, to terminate all of these contracts.   
  The following table presents the estimated fair value, maximum amount of future payments and weighted average years to
maturity of written credit default swaps at:       

(1)  
    The rating agency designations are based on availability and the midpoint of the applicable ratings among Moody s Investors Service
( Moody s ), S P and Fitch Ratings. If no rating is available from a rating agency, then an internally developed rating is used.          

(2)  
    Assumes the value of the referenced credit obligations is zero.      

(3)  
    The weighted average years to maturity of the credit default swaps is calculated based on weighted average notional amounts.
     
   The Company has also entered into credit default swaps to purchase credit protection on certain of the
referenced credit obligations in the table above. As a result, the maximum amounts of potential future recoveries available to offset the $8.9 billion and $7.7 billion from the table above were $150 million and $115 million at
December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   
         280

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Written credit default swaps held in relation to the trading portfolio
amounted to $10 million in notional and $0 in fair value at December 31, 2012. Written credit default swaps held in relation to the trading portfolio amounted to $10 million in notional and ($1) million in fair value at December 31, 2011.
       Credit Risk on Freestanding Derivatives     
   The Company may be exposed to credit-related losses in the event of
nonperformance by counterparties to derivatives. Generally, the current credit exposure of the Company s derivatives is limited to the net positive estimated fair value of derivatives at the reporting date after taking into consideration the
existence of netting agreements and any collateral received pursuant to credit support annexes.   
   The Company manages its credit risk related to OTC derivatives by entering into transactions with
creditworthy counterparties, maintaining collateral arrangements and through the use of master agreements that provide for netting of payments by product and currency for periodic settlements and a single net payment to be made by one party upon
termination. Because exchange-traded futures and options are effected through regulated exchanges, and positions are marked to market on a daily basis, the Company has minimal exposure to credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by
counterparties to such derivatives. See Note 10 for a description of the impact of credit risk on the valuation of derivatives.      The Company enters into various collateral arrangements which require both the pledging and accepting of collateral in connection with its OTC derivatives. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company
was obligated to return cash collateral under its control of $6.0 billion and $9.5 billion, respectively. This cash collateral is included in cash and cash equivalents or in short-term investments and the obligation to return it is included in
payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions in the consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company had received collateral consisting of various securities with a fair market value of
$3.7 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, which were held in separate custodial accounts. Subject to certain constraints, the Company is permitted by contract to sell or repledge this collateral, but at December 31, 2012, none of
the collateral had been sold or repledged.      The Company s collateral arrangements for its OTC derivatives
generally require the counterparty in a net liability position, after considering the effect of netting agreements, to pledge collateral when the fair value of that counterparty s derivatives reaches a pre-determined threshold. Certain of these
arrangements also include credit-contingent provisions that provide for a reduction of these thresholds (on a sliding scale that converges toward zero) in the event of downgrades in the credit ratings of the Company and/or the counterparty. In
addition, certain of the Company s netting agreements for derivatives contain provisions that require both the Company and the counterparty to maintain a specific investment grade credit rating from each of Moody s and S P. If a
party s credit ratings were to fall below that specific investment grade credit rating, that party would be in violation of these provisions, and the other party to the derivatives could terminate the transactions and demand immediate
settlement and payment based on such party s reasonable valuation of the derivatives.   
         281

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The following table presents the estimated fair value of the
Company s OTC derivatives that are in a net liability position after considering the effect of netting agreements, together with the estimated fair value and balance sheet location of the collateral pledged. The table also presents the
incremental collateral that the Company would be required to provide if there was a one notch downgrade in the Company s credit rating at the reporting date or if the Company s credit rating sustained a downgrade to a level that triggered
full overnight collateralization or termination of the derivative position at the reporting date. Derivatives that are not subject to collateral agreements are not included in the scope of this table.   

(1)  
    After taking into consideration the existence of netting agreements.      

(2)  
    Included in fixed maturity securities in the consolidated balance sheets. Subject to certain constraints, the counterparties are permitted by
contract to sell or repledge this collateral.          

(3)  
    Included in premiums, reinsurance and other receivables in the consolidated balance sheets.      
   The Company also has exchange-traded futures and options, which require the pledging of collateral. At
December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company pledged securities collateral for exchange-traded futures and options of $40 million and $42 million, respectively, which is included in fixed maturity securities. Subject to certain constraints, the
counterparties are permitted by contract to sell or repledge this collateral. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company provided cash collateral for exchange-traded futures and options of $441 million and $680 million, respectively, which is
included in premiums, reinsurance and other receivables.   
         282

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Embedded Derivatives     
  The Company issues certain products or purchases certain investments that contain embedded derivatives that are required
to be separated from their host contracts and accounted for as freestanding derivatives. These host contracts principally include: variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits, including GMWBs, GMABs and certain GMIBs; ceded reinsurance of
guaranteed minimum benefits related to GMABs and certain GMIBs; assumed reinsurance of guaranteed minimum benefits related to GMWBs and GMABs; funding agreements with equity or bond indexed crediting rates; funds withheld on assumed and ceded
reinsurance; and certain debt and equity securities.      The following table presents the estimated fair value
and balance sheet location of the Company s embedded derivatives that have been separated from their host contracts at:       

The following table presents changes in estimated fair value related to embedded derivatives:

(1)  
    The valuation of guaranteed minimum benefits includes a nonperformance risk adjustment. The amounts included in net derivative gains (losses), in
connection with this adjustment, were ($1.7) billion, $1.8 billion and ($96) million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.      

         283

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

      10.  Fair Value    

   When developing estimated fair values, the Company
considers three broad valuation techniques: (i) the market approach, (ii) the income approach, and (iii) the cost approach. The Company determines the most appropriate valuation technique to use, given what is being measured and the
availability of sufficient inputs, giving priority to observable inputs. The Company categorizes its assets and liabilities measured at estimated fair value into a three-level hierarchy, based on the significant input with the lowest level in its
valuation. The input levels are as follows:       

Level 1  
    Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. The Company defines active markets based on average trading volume
for equity securities. The size of the bid/ask spread is used as an indicator of market activity for fixed maturity securities.          

Level 2  
    Quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly. These inputs can include quoted prices for
similar assets or liabilities other than quoted prices in Level 1, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other significant inputs that are observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data for
substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.          

Level 3  
    Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and are significant to the determination of estimated fair value of the
assets or liabilities. Unobservable inputs reflect the reporting entity s own assumptions about the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.      
  Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a
reduction in asset liquidity. The Company s ability to sell securities, or the price ultimately realized for these securities, depends upon the demand and liquidity in the market and increases the use of judgment in determining the estimated
fair value of certain securities.      Considerable judgment is often required in interpreting market data to
develop estimates of fair value, and the use of different assumptions or valuation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.   

         284

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Recurring Fair Value Measurements     
  The assets and liabilities measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis, including those items for which the
Company has elected the FVO, were determined as described below. These estimated fair values and their corresponding placement in the fair value hierarchy are summarized as follows:   

285

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

286

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)  
    Short-term investments as presented in the tables above differ from the amounts presented in the consolidated balance sheets because certain
short-term investments are not measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis.          

(2)  
    Mortgage loans held-for-sale are comprised of securitized reverse residential mortgage loans and residential mortgage loans held-for-sale. See
   Fair Value Option  for additional information. The amounts in the preceding tables differ from the amount presented in the consolidated balance sheets as these tables do not include mortgage loans that are stated at lower of
amortized cost or estimated fair value.          

(3)  
    As a result of the MetLife Bank Divestiture described in Note 3, the Company disposed of certain mortgage loans and de-recognized its securitized
reverse residential mortgage loans and corresponding liabilities presented in the table above and in the related fair value option disclosures.          

(4)  
    Derivative liabilities are presented within other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. The amounts are presented gross in the tables
above to reflect the presentation in the consolidated balance sheets, but are presented net for purposes of the rollforward in the Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) tables.      

(5)  
    Net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts are presented primarily within premiums, reinsurance and other receivables in the consolidated
balance sheets. Net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts are presented primarily within PABs in the consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2012, fixed maturity securities and equity securities also included embedded
derivatives of $0 and ($88) million, respectively. At December 31, 2011, fixed maturity securities and equity securities included embedded derivatives of $2 million and ($72) million, respectively.      

(6)  
    Investment performance related to separate account assets is fully offset by corresponding amounts credited to contractholders whose liability is
reflected within separate account liabilities. Separate account liabilities are set equal to the estimated fair value of separate account assets.          

(7)  
    The liability related to securitized reverse residential mortgage loans and trading liabilities are presented within other liabilities in the
consolidated balance sheets.      
   The following describes the valuation methodologies used to measure assets and liabilities at fair
value. The description includes the valuation techniques and key inputs for each category of assets or liabilities that are classified within Level 2 and Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.   
     Investments           Valuation Controls and Procedures     
  On behalf of the Company s Chief Investment Officer and Chief Financial Officer, a pricing and
valuation committee that is independent of the trading and investing functions and comprised of senior management, provides oversight of control systems and valuation policies for securities, mortgage loans and derivatives. On a monthly basis, this
committee reviews and approves new transaction types and markets, ensures that observable market prices and market-based parameters are used for valuation, wherever possible, determines that judgmental valuation adjustments, when applied, are based
upon established policies and are applied consistently over time. This committee also provides oversight of the selection of independent third party pricing providers and the controls and procedures to evaluate third party pricing. Periodically, the
Chief Accounting Officer reports to the Audit Committee of MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors regarding compliance with fair value accounting standards.   
         287

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The Company reviews its valuation methodologies on an
ongoing basis and revises those methodologies when necessary based on changing market conditions. Assurance is gained on the overall reasonableness and consistent application of input assumptions, valuation methodologies and compliance with fair
value accounting standards through controls designed to ensure valuations represent an exit price. Several controls are utilized, including certain monthly controls, which include, but are not limited to, analysis of portfolio returns to
corresponding benchmark returns, comparing a sample of executed prices of securities sold to the fair value estimates, comparing fair value estimates to management s knowledge of the current market, reviewing the bid/ask spreads to assess
activity, comparing prices from multiple independent pricing services and ongoing due diligence to confirm that independent pricing services use market-based parameters. The process includes a determination of the observability of inputs used in
estimated fair values received from independent pricing services or brokers by assessing whether these inputs can be corroborated by observable market data. The Company ensures that prices received from independent brokers, also referred to herein
as  consensus pricing,  represent a reasonable estimate of fair value by reviewing such pricing with the Company s knowledge of the current market dynamics and current pricing for similar financial instruments. While independent
non-binding broker quotations are utilized, they are not used for a significant portion of the portfolio. For example, fixed maturity securities priced using independent non-binding broker quotations represent 0.5% of the total estimated fair value
of fixed maturity securities and 9% of the total estimated fair value of Level 3 fixed maturity securities.      The Company also applies a formal process to challenge any prices received from independent pricing services that are not considered representative of estimated fair value. If prices received from
independent pricing services are not considered reflective of market activity or representative of estimated fair value, independent non-binding broker quotations are obtained, or an internally developed valuation is prepared. Internally developed
valuations of current estimated fair value, which reflect internal estimates of liquidity and nonperformance risks, compared with pricing received from the independent pricing services, did not produce material differences in the estimated fair
values for the majority of the portfolio; accordingly, overrides were not material. This is, in part, because internal estimates of liquidity and nonperformance risks are generally based on available market evidence and estimates used by other
market participants. In the absence of such market-based evidence, management s best estimate is used.        Securities,
Short-term Investments, Other Investments, Long-term Debt of CSEs and Trading Liabilities        When available, the estimated fair value of these investments are based on quoted prices in active markets that are readily and regularly obtainable. Generally, these are the most liquid of the
Company s securities holdings and valuation of these securities does not involve management s judgment.      When quoted prices in active markets are not available, the determination of estimated fair value is based on market standard valuation methodologies, giving priority to observable inputs. The significant
inputs to the market standard valuation methodologies for certain types of securities with reasonable levels of price transparency are inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market
data. When observable inputs are not available, the market standard valuation methodologies rely on inputs that are significant to the estimated fair value that are not observable in the market or cannot be derived principally from, or corroborated
by, observable market data. These unobservable inputs can be based in large part on management s judgment or estimation and cannot be supported by reference to market activity. Even though these inputs are unobservable, management believes they
are consistent with what other market participants would use when pricing such securities and are considered appropriate given the circumstances.   
         288

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The estimated fair value of FVO securities held by CSEs,
other investments, long-term debt of CSEs and trading liabilities is determined on a basis consistent with the methodologies described herein for securities. The Company consolidates certain securitization entities that hold securities that have
been accounted for under the FVO and classified within FVO and trading securities.   
   Level 2 Valuation Techniques and Key Inputs:    
  This level includes fixed maturity securities and equity securities priced principally by independent
pricing services using observable inputs. FVO and trading securities, short-term investments and other investments within this level are of a similar nature and class to the Level 2 fixed maturity securities and equity securities.
Contractholder-directed unit-linked investments reported within FVO and trading securities include mutual fund interests without readily determinable fair values given prices are not published publicly. Valuation of these mutual funds is based upon
quoted prices or reported NAVs provided by the fund managers, which were based on observable inputs.       U.S. corporate
and foreign corporate securities      These securities are principally valued using the market
and income approaches. Valuations are based primarily on quoted prices in markets that are not active, or using matrix pricing or other similar techniques that use standard market observable inputs such as benchmark yields, spreads off benchmark
yields, new issuances, issuer rating, duration, and trades of identical or comparable securities. Investment grade privately placed securities are valued using discounted cash flow methodologies using standard market observable inputs, and inputs
derived from, or corroborated by, market observable data including market yield curve, duration, call provisions, observable prices and spreads for similar publicly traded or privately traded issues that incorporate the credit quality and industry
sector of the issuer. This level also includes certain below investment grade privately placed fixed maturity securities priced by independent pricing services that use observable inputs.   
   Foreign government and state and political subdivision securities   
  These securities are principally valued using the market approach. Valuation is based primarily on matrix
pricing or other similar techniques using standard market observable inputs, including benchmark U.S. Treasury yield or other yields, issuer ratings, broker-dealer quotes, issuer spreads and reported trades of similar securities, including
those within the same sub-sector or with a similar maturity or credit rating.       U.S. Treasury and agency
securities      These securities are principally valued using the market approach. Valuation is
based primarily on quoted prices in markets that are not active or using matrix pricing or other similar techniques using standard market observable inputs such as benchmark U.S. Treasury yield curve, the spread off the U.S. Treasury yield
curve for the identical security and comparable securities that are actively traded.       Structured securities comprised of
RMBS, CMBS and ABS      These securities are principally valued using the market and income
approaches. Valuation is based primarily on matrix pricing, discounted cash flow methodologies or other similar techniques using standard market inputs including spreads for actively traded securities, spreads off benchmark yields, expected
prepayment speeds and volumes, current and forecasted loss severity, rating, weighted average   
         289

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
coupon, weighted average maturity, average delinquency rates, geographic region, debt-service coverage ratios and issuance-specific information, including, but not limited to: collateral type,
payment terms of the underlying assets, payment priority within the tranche, structure of the security, deal performance and vintage of loans.       Common and non-redeemable preferred stock   
  These securities are principally valued using the market approach where market quotes are available but
are not considered actively traded. Valuation is based principally on observable inputs including quoted prices in markets that are not considered active.       Level 3 Valuation Techniques and Key Inputs:       In general, fixed maturity securities and equity securities classified within Level 3 use many of the same valuation techniques and inputs as described in the Level 2 Valuation Techniques and
Key Inputs. However, if key inputs are unobservable, or if the investments are less liquid and there is very limited trading activity, the investments are generally classified as Level 3. The use of independent non-binding broker quotations to
value investments generally indicates there is a lack of liquidity or a lack of transparency in the process to develop the valuation estimates, generally causing these investments to be classified in Level 3.   
  FVO and trading securities and short-term investments within this level are of a similar nature and class
to the Level 3 securities described below; accordingly, the valuation techniques and significant market standard observable inputs used in their valuation are also similar to those described below.   
   U.S. corporate and foreign corporate securities   
  These securities, including financial services industry hybrid securities classified within fixed
maturity securities, are principally valued using the market approach. Valuations are based primarily on matrix pricing or other similar techniques that utilize unobservable inputs or inputs that cannot be derived principally from, or corroborated
by, observable market data, including illiquidity premium, delta spread adjustments or spreads over below investment grade curves to reflect industry trends or specific credit-related issues; and inputs including quoted prices for identical or
similar securities that are less liquid and based on lower levels of trading activity than securities classified in Level 2. Certain valuations are based on independent non-binding broker quotations.   
   Foreign government and state and political subdivision securities   
  These securities are principally valued using the market approach. Valuation is based primarily on
independent non-binding broker quotations and inputs, including quoted prices for identical or similar securities that are less liquid and based on lower levels of trading activity than securities classified in Level 2.   
   Structured securities comprised of RMBS, CMBS and ABS   
  These securities are principally valued using the market and income approaches. Valuation is based
primarily on matrix pricing, discounted cash flow methodologies or other similar techniques that utilize inputs that are unobservable or cannot be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data, including spreads over below
investment grade curves to reflect industry trends on specific credit-related issues. Below investment grade securities, alternative residential mortgage loan RMBS and sub-  
         290

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
prime RMBS included in this level are valued based on inputs including quoted prices for identical or similar securities that are less liquid and based on lower levels of trading activity than
securities classified in Level 2. Certain of these valuations are based on independent non-binding broker quotations.   
   Common and non-redeemable preferred stock   
  These securities, including privately held securities and financial services industry hybrid securities
classified within equity securities, are principally valued using the market and income approaches. Valuations are based primarily on matrix pricing, discounted cash flow methodologies or other similar techniques using inputs such as comparable
credit rating and issuance structure. Certain of these securities are valued based on inputs including quoted prices for identical or similar securities that are less liquid and based on lower levels of trading activity than securities classified in
Level 2 and independent non-binding broker quotations.        Mortgage Loans, MSRs and Liability Related to Securitized
Reverse Residential Mortgage Loans        The Company has elected the FVO for commercial
mortgage loans held by CSEs, certain residential mortgage loans held-for-sale, securitized reverse residential mortgage loans, MSRs and the liability related to securitized reverse residential mortgage loans. Although MSRs are not financial
instruments, the Company has included them in the preceding table as a result of its election to carry them at estimated fair value.       Level 2 Valuation Techniques and Key Inputs:        Commercial Mortgage
Loans Held by CSEs       These investments are principally valued using the market approach.
The principal market for these investments is the securitization market. The Company uses the quoted securitization market price of the obligations of the CSEs to determine the estimated fair value of these commercial loan portfolios. These market
prices are determined principally by independent pricing services using observable inputs.       Mortgage Loans Held-For-Sale
      Residential mortgage loans held-for-sale are principally valued using the market
approach. For securitized reverse residential mortgage loans, valuation is based primarily on readily available observable pricing for securities backed by similar fixed-rate loans. For other residential mortgage loans held-for-sale, valuation is
based primarily on readily available observable pricing for securities backed by similar loans. The unobservable adjustments to such prices are insignificant.       Liability Related to Securitized Reverse Residential Mortgage Loans       The estimated fair value of this liability is based on quoted prices when traded as assets in active markets or, if not available, based on market standard valuation methodologies consistent with the
Company s methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of comparable financial instruments.   
         291

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Level 3 Valuation Techniques and Key Inputs:    
   Mortgage Loans Held-for-Sale    
  For both securitized reverse residential mortgage loans held-for-sale and other residential mortgage
loans held-for-sale, for which pricing for securities backed by similar adjustable-rate loans is not observable, the estimated fair value is determined using unobservable independent broker quotations or valuation models using significant
unobservable inputs.       MSRs    
  MSRs, which are valued using an income approach, are carried at estimated fair value and have multiple
significant unobservable inputs including assumptions regarding estimates of discount rates, loan prepayments and servicing costs. Sales of MSRs tend to occur in private transactions where the precise terms and conditions of the sales are typically
not readily available and observable market valuations are limited. As such, the Company relies primarily on a discounted cash flow model to estimate the fair value of the MSRs. The model requires inputs such as type of loan (fixed vs. variable and
agency vs. other), age of loan, loan interest rates and current market interest rates that are generally observable. The model also requires the use of unobservable inputs including assumptions regarding estimates of discount rates, loan prepayments
and servicing costs.       Liability Related to Securitized Reverse Residential Mortgage Loans    
  The estimated fair value of this liability is based on quoted prices when traded as assets in less active
markets or, if not available, based on market standard valuation methodologies using unobservable inputs, consistent with the Company s methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of comparable financial instruments.   
    Separate Account Assets     
  Separate account assets are carried at estimated fair value and reported as a summarized total on the
consolidated balance sheets. The estimated fair value of separate account assets is based on the estimated fair value of the underlying assets. Assets within the Company s separate accounts include: mutual funds, fixed maturity securities,
equity securities, derivatives, hedge funds, other limited partnership interests, short-term investments and cash and cash equivalents.       Level 2 Valuation Techniques and Key Inputs:       These assets are comprised of investments that are similar in nature to the instruments described under    Securities, Short-term Investments, Other Investments, Long-term Debt of CSEs and
Trading Liabilities  and    Derivatives   Freestanding Derivatives.  Also included are certain mutual funds and hedge funds without readily determinable fair values as prices are not published publicly. Valuation of the
mutual funds and hedge funds is based upon quoted prices or reported NAVs provided by the fund managers.       Level 3
Valuation Techniques and Key Inputs:       These assets are comprised of investments that are
similar in nature to the instruments described under    Securities, Short-term Investments, Other Investments, Long-term Debt of CSEs and Trading Liabilities  and    Derivatives   Freestanding
Derivatives.  Separate account assets within this level also   
         292

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
include other limited partnership interests. Other limited partnership interests are valued giving consideration to the value of the underlying holdings of the partnerships and by applying a
premium or discount, if appropriate, for factors such as liquidity, bid/ask spreads, the performance record of the fund manager or other relevant variables which may impact the exit value of the particular partnership interest.   
     Derivatives         The estimated fair value of derivatives is determined through the use of quoted market prices for exchange-traded derivatives and interest rate forwards to sell certain to be announced securities, or
through the use of pricing models for OTC derivatives. The determination of estimated fair value, when quoted market values are not available, is based on market standard valuation methodologies and inputs that management believes are consistent
with what other market participants would use when pricing such instruments. Derivative valuations can be affected by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial indices, credit spreads, default risk, nonperformance risk,
volatility, liquidity and changes in estimates and assumptions used in the pricing models. The valuation controls and procedures for derivatives are described in    Investments.    
  The significant inputs to the pricing models for most OTC derivatives are inputs that are observable in the market or can
be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data. Significant inputs that are observable generally include: interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rate curves, credit curves and volatility. However, certain
OTC derivatives may rely on inputs that are significant to the estimated fair value that are not observable in the market or cannot be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data. Significant inputs that are unobservable
generally include references to emerging market currencies and inputs that are outside the observable portion of the interest rate curve, credit curve, volatility or other relevant market measure. These unobservable inputs may involve significant
management judgment or estimation. Even though unobservable, these inputs are based on assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances and management believes they are consistent with what other market participants would use when pricing such
instruments.      The credit risk of both the counterparty and the Company are considered in determining the
estimated fair value for all OTC derivatives, and any potential credit adjustment is based on the net exposure by counterparty after taking into account the effects of netting agreements and collateral arrangements. The Company values its
derivatives using the standard swap curve which includes a spread to the risk free rate. This credit spread is appropriate for those parties that execute trades at pricing levels consistent with the standard swap curve. As the Company and its
significant derivative counterparties consistently execute trades at such pricing levels, additional credit risk adjustments are not currently required in the valuation process. The Company s ability to consistently execute at such pricing
levels is in part due to the netting agreements and collateral arrangements that are in place with all of its significant derivative counterparties. An evaluation of the requirement to make additional credit risk adjustments is performed by the
Company each reporting period.      Most inputs for OTC derivatives are mid-market inputs but, in certain cases,
bid level inputs are used when they are deemed more representative of exit value. Market liquidity, as well as the use of different methodologies, assumptions and inputs, may have a material effect on the estimated fair values of the Company s
derivatives and could materially affect net income.   
         293

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Freestanding Derivatives     
   Level 2 Valuation Techniques and Key Inputs:    
  This level includes all types of derivatives utilized by the Company with the exception of exchange-traded
derivatives and interest rate forwards to sell certain to be announced securities included within Level 1 and those derivatives with unobservable inputs as described in Level 3. These derivatives are principally valued using the income
approach.       Interest rate    
   Non-option-based.    Valuations are based on present value techniques, which utilize
significant inputs that may include the swap yield curve and LIBOR basis curves.   
   Option-based .   Valuations are based on option pricing models, which utilize significant
inputs that may include the swap yield curve, LIBOR basis curves and interest rate volatility.       Foreign currency exchange
rate        Non-option-based.    Valuations are based on present value techniques,
which utilize significant inputs that may include the swap yield curve, LIBOR basis curves, currency spot rates and cross currency basis curves.   
   Option-based .   Valuations are based on option pricing models, which utilize significant
inputs that may include the swap yield curve, LIBOR basis curves, currency spot rates, cross currency basis curves and currency volatility.       Credit        Non-option-based.   
Valuations are based on present value techniques, which utilize significant inputs that may include the swap yield curve, credit curves and recovery rates.       Equity market        Non-option-based. 
  Valuations are based on present value techniques, which utilize significant inputs that may include the swap yield curve, spot equity index levels and dividend yield curves.   
   Option-based .   Valuations are based on option pricing models, which utilize significant
inputs that may include the swap yield curve, spot equity index levels, dividend yield curves and equity volatility.       Level
3 Valuation Techniques and Key Inputs:       These derivatives are principally valued using the
income approach. Valuations of non-option-based derivatives utilize present value techniques, whereas valuations of option-based derivatives utilize option pricing models. These valuation methodologies generally use the same inputs as described in
the corresponding sections above for Level 2 measurements of derivatives. However, these derivatives result in Level 3 classification because one or more of the significant inputs are not observable in the market or cannot be derived
principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data.   
         294

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Interest rate    
   Non-option-based.    Significant unobservable inputs may include pull through rates on
interest rate lock commitments and the extrapolation beyond observable limits of the swap yield curve and LIBOR basis curves.       Option-based .   Significant unobservable inputs may include the extrapolation beyond observable limits of the swap yield curve, LIBOR basis curves and interest rate volatility.
      Foreign currency exchange rate    
   Non-option-based.    Significant unobservable inputs may include the extrapolation beyond
observable limits of the swap yield curve, LIBOR basis curves, cross currency basis curves and currency correlation.       Option-based .   Significant unobservable inputs may include currency correlation and the extrapolation beyond observable limits of the swap yield curve, LIBOR basis curves, cross currency
basis curves and currency volatility.       Credit    
   Non-option-based.    Significant unobservable inputs may include credit spreads,
repurchase rates and the extrapolation beyond observable limits of the swap yield curve and credit curves. Certain of these derivatives are valued based on independent non-binding broker quotations.   
   Equity market        Non-option-based.    Significant unobservable inputs may include the extrapolation beyond observable limits of dividend yield curves and equity volatility.   
   Option-based .   Significant unobservable inputs may include the extrapolation beyond
observable limits of dividend yield curves, equity volatility and unobservable correlation between model inputs.   
     Embedded Derivatives      
   Embedded derivatives
principally include certain direct, assumed and ceded variable annuity guarantees and equity or bond indexed crediting rates within certain funding agreements. Embedded derivatives are recorded at estimated fair value with changes in estimated fair
value reported in net income.      The fair value of these embedded derivatives, estimated as the present value of
projected future benefits minus the present value of projected future fees using actuarial and capital market assumptions including expectations concerning policyholder behavior, is calculated by the Company s actuarial department. The
calculation is based on in-force business, and is performed using standard actuarial valuation software which projects future cash flows from the embedded derivative over multiple risk neutral stochastic scenarios using observable risk free rates.
     Capital market assumptions, such as risk free rates and implied volatilities, are based on market prices for
publicly traded instruments to the extent that prices for such instruments are observable. Implied volatilities beyond the observable period are extrapolated based on observable implied volatilities and historical volatilities. Actuarial
assumptions, including mortality, lapse, withdrawal and utilization, are unobservable and are reviewed at least annually based on actuarial studies of historical experience.   
         295

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The valuation of these guarantee liabilities includes nonperformance
risk adjustments and adjustments for a risk margin related to non-capital market inputs. The nonperformance adjustment is determined by taking into consideration publicly available information relating to spreads in the secondary market for MetLife,
Inc. s debt, including related credit default swaps. These observable spreads are then adjusted, as necessary, to reflect the priority of these liabilities and the claims paying ability of the issuing insurance subsidiaries compared to MetLife,
Inc.      Risk margins are established to capture the non-capital market risks of the instrument which represent
the additional compensation a market participant would require to assume the risks related to the uncertainties of such actuarial assumptions as annuitization, premium persistency, partial withdrawal and surrenders. The establishment of risk margins
requires the use of significant management judgment, including assumptions of the amount and cost of capital needed to cover the guarantees. These guarantees may be more costly than expected in volatile or declining equity markets. Market conditions
including, but not limited to, changes in interest rates, equity indices, market volatility and foreign currency exchange rates; changes in nonperformance risk; and variations in actuarial assumptions regarding policyholder behavior, mortality and
risk margins related to non-capital market inputs, may result in significant fluctuations in the estimated fair value of the guarantees that could materially affect net income.   
  The Company ceded the risk associated with certain of the GMIBs and GMABs previously described. These reinsurance
agreements contain embedded derivatives which are included within premiums, reinsurance and other receivables in the consolidated balance sheets with changes in estimated fair value reported in net derivative gains (losses) or policyholder benefits
and claims depending on the statement of operations classification of the direct risk. The value of the embedded derivatives on the ceded risk is determined using a methodology consistent with that described previously for the guarantees directly
written by the Company with the exception of the input for nonperformance risk that reflects the credit of the reinsurer.   
   The estimated fair value of the embedded derivatives within funds withheld related to certain ceded
reinsurance is determined based on the change in estimated fair value of the underlying assets held by the Company in a reference portfolio backing the funds withheld liability. The estimated fair value of the underlying assets is determined as
previously described in    Investments   Securities, Short-term Investments, Other Investments, Long-term Debt of CSEs and Trading Liabilities.  The estimated fair value of these embedded derivatives is included, along with
their funds withheld hosts, in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets with changes in estimated fair value recorded in net derivative gains (losses). Changes in the credit spreads on the underlying assets, interest rates and market
volatility may result in significant fluctuations in the estimated fair value of these embedded derivatives that could materially affect net income.      The estimated fair value of the embedded equity and bond indexed derivatives contained in certain funding agreements is determined using market standard swap valuation models and observable market inputs,
including a nonperformance risk adjustment. The estimated fair value of these embedded derivatives are included, along with their funding agreements host, within PABs with changes in estimated fair value recorded in net derivative gains (losses).
Changes in equity and bond indices, interest rates and the Company s credit standing may result in significant fluctuations in the estimated fair value of these embedded derivatives that could materially affect net income.   
         296

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Embedded Derivatives Within Asset and Liability Host Contracts     
   Level 3 Valuation Techniques and Key Inputs:        Direct and Assumed Guaranteed Minimum Benefits       These embedded derivatives are principally valued using the income approach. Valuations are based on option pricing techniques, which utilize significant inputs that may include swap yield curve, currency
exchange rates and implied volatilities. These embedded derivatives result in Level 3 classification because one or more of the significant inputs are not observable in the market or cannot be derived principally from, or corroborated by,
observable market data. Significant unobservable inputs generally include: the extrapolation beyond observable limits of the swap yield curve and implied volatilities, actuarial assumptions for policyholder behavior and mortality and the potential
variability in policyholder behavior and mortality, nonperformance risk and cost of capital for purposes of calculating the risk margin.       Reinsurance Ceded on Certain Guaranteed Minimum Benefits       These embedded derivatives are principally valued using the income approach. The valuation techniques and significant market standard unobservable inputs used in their valuation are similar to those
described above in    Direct and Assumed Guaranteed Minimum Benefits  and also include counterparty credit spreads.         Transfers between Levels      
  Overall, transfers between levels occur when there are changes in the observability of inputs and market
activity. Transfers into or out of any level are assumed to occur at the beginning of the period.        Transfers between
Levels 1 and 2:        Transfers between Levels 1 and 2 were not significant for assets and
liabilities measured at estimated fair value and still held at December 31, 2012 and 2011.        Transfers into or out
of Level 3:        Transfers into or out of Level 3 are presented in the tables which
follow. Assets and liabilities are transferred into Level 3 when a significant input cannot be corroborated with market observable data. This occurs when market activity decreases significantly and underlying inputs cannot be observed, current
prices are not available, and/or when there are significant variances in quoted prices, thereby affecting transparency. Assets and liabilities are transferred out of Level 3 when circumstances change such that a significant input can be
corroborated with market observable data. This may be due to a significant increase in market activity, a specific event, or one or more significant input(s) becoming observable.   
  Transfers into Level 3 for fixed maturity securities and separate account assets were due primarily to a
lack of trading activity, decreased liquidity and credit ratings downgrades (e.g., from investment grade to below investment grade) which have resulted in decreased transparency of valuations and an increased use of independent non-binding broker
quotations and unobservable inputs, such as illiquidity premiums, delta spread adjustments, or spreads from below investment grade curves.      Transfers out of Level 3 for fixed maturity securities and separate account assets resulted primarily from increased transparency of both new issuances that, subsequent to issuance and establishment
of trading   
         297

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
activity, became priced by independent pricing services and existing issuances that, over time, the Company was able to obtain pricing from, or corroborate pricing received from, independent
pricing services with observable inputs or increases in market activity and upgraded credit ratings.         Assets and
Liabilities Measured at Fair Value Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3)         The following
table presents certain quantitative information about the significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement for the more significant asset and liability classes measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant
unobservable inputs (Level 3) at December 31, 2012.       

298

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)  
    For this unobservable input, range and weighted average are presented in basis points.      

(2)  
    For this unobservable input, range and weighted average are presented in accordance with the market convention for fixed maturity securities of
dollars per hundred dollars of par.          

(3)  
    At December 31, 2012, independent non-binding broker quotations were used in the determination of less than 1% of the total net derivative
estimated fair value.          

(4)  
    This range is attributable to certain GMIB and lifetime withdrawal benefits.      
   The following is a summary of the valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs used in the
fair value measurement for other assets and liabilities classified within Level 3. These assets and liabilities are subject to the controls described under    Investments   Valuation Controls and Procedures.  Generally,
all other classes of securities including those within separate account assets use the same valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs as previously described for Level 3 fixed maturity securities. This includes matrix pricing and
discounted cash flow methodologies, inputs such as quoted prices for identical or similar securities that are less liquid and based on lower levels of trading activity than securities classified in Level 2, as well as independent non-binding
broker quotations. Mortgage loans held-for-sale are valued using independent non-binding broker quotations and internal models such as discounted cash flow methodologies using current interest rates. MSRs are valued using discounted cash flow
methodologies using inputs such as discount rates, loan prepayments and servicing costs. The long-term debt of CSEs is valued using independent non-binding broker quotations and internal models including matrix pricing and discounted cash flow
methodologies using current interest rates. The liability related to securitized reverse residential mortgage loans is valued using quoted prices. The sensitivity of the estimated fair value to changes in the significant unobservable inputs for
these other assets and liabilities is similar in nature to that described below. The valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement for the more significant assets measured at estimated fair value on a
nonrecurring basis and determined using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) are summarized in    Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements  and Note 11.   
  A description of the sensitivity of the estimated fair value to changes in the significant unobservable inputs for certain
of the major asset and liability classes described above is as follows:        Securities     
  Significant spread widening in isolation will adversely impact the overall valuation, while significant
spread tightening will lead to substantial valuation increases. Significant increases (decreases) in expected default rates in isolation would result in substantially lower (higher) valuations. Significant increases (decreases) in offered quotes in
isolation would result in substantially higher (lower) valuations. For U.S. and foreign corporate securities, significant increases (decreases) in illiquidity premiums in isolation would result in substantially lower (higher) valuations. For RMBS,
CMBS and ABS, changes in the assumptions used for the probability of default is accompanied by a directionally similar change in the assumption used for the loss severity and a directionally opposite change in the assumptions used for prepayment
rates.        Interest rate derivatives     
  Significant increases (decreases) in the unobservable portion of the swap yield curve in isolation will
result in substantial valuation changes.        Foreign currency exchange rate derivatives     
  Significant increases (decreases) in the unobservable portion of the swap yield curve in isolation will
result in substantial valuation changes. Increases (decreases) in currency correlation in isolation will increase (decrease) the significance of the change in valuations.      
         299

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Credit derivatives     
  Credit derivatives with significant unobservable inputs are primarily comprised of credit default swaps
written by the Company. Significant credit spread widening in isolation will result in substantially higher adverse valuations, while significant spread tightening will result in substantially lower adverse valuations. Significant increases
(decreases) in offered quotes in isolation will result in substantially higher (lower) valuations.        Equity market
derivatives        Significant decreases in equity volatility in isolation will adversely
impact overall valuation, while significant increases in equity volatility will result in substantial valuation increases. Increases (decreases) in correlation in isolation will increase (decrease) the significance of the change in valuations.
Significant increases (decreases) in offered quotes in isolation will result in substantially higher (lower) valuations.   
    Direct and assumed guaranteed minimum benefits     
  For any increase (decrease) in mortality and lapse rates, the fair value of the guarantees will decrease
(increase). For any increase (decrease) in utilization and volatility, the fair value of the guarantees will increase (decrease). Specifically for GMWBs, for any increase (decrease) in withdrawal rates, the fair value of the guarantees will increase
(decrease). Specifically for GMABs and GMIBs, for any increase (decrease) in withdrawal rates, the fair value of the guarantees will decrease (increase).   
         300

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The following tables summarize the change of all assets and
(liabilities) measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3), including realized and unrealized gains (losses) of all assets and (liabilities) and realized and unrealized gains (losses) of
all assets and (liabilities) still held at the end of the respective periods:       

301

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

302

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

303

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

304

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

305

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

306

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

307

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

308

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)  
    Amortization of premium/discount is included within net investment income. Impairments charged to net income (loss) on securities and certain
mortgage loans are included in net investment gains (losses) while changes in the estimated fair value of certain mortgage loans and MSRs are included in other revenues. Lapses associated with net embedded derivatives are included in net derivative
gains (losses).          

(2)  
    Interest and dividend accruals, as well as cash interest coupons and dividends received, are excluded from the rollforward.

(3)  
    The amount reported within purchases, sales, issuances and settlements is the purchase or issuance price and the sales or settlement proceeds based
upon the actual date purchased or issued and sold or settled, respectively. Items purchased/issued and sold/settled in the same period are excluded from the rollforward. Fees attributed to embedded derivatives are included in settlements.

(4)  
    Gains and losses, in net income (loss) and other comprehensive income (loss), are calculated assuming transfers into and/or out of Level 3 occurred
at the beginning of the period. Items transferred into and then out of Level 3 in the same period are excluded from the rollforward.          

(5)  
    Relates to assets and liabilities still held at the end of the respective periods.      

(6)  
    Other revenues represent the changes in estimated fair value due to changes in valuation model inputs or assumptions. For the years ended
December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, there were no other changes in estimated fair value affecting MSRs.      
         309

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(7)  
    Freestanding derivative assets and liabilities are presented net for purposes of the rollforward.      

(8)  
    Embedded derivative assets and liabilities are presented net for purposes of the rollforward.      

(9)  
    Investment performance related to separate account assets is fully offset by corresponding amounts credited to contractholders within separate
account liabilities. Therefore, such changes in estimated fair value are not recorded in net income. For the purpose of this disclosure, these changes are presented within net investment gains (losses).      

(10)  
    The long-term debt of the CSEs consolidated as of January 1, 2010 is reported within the purchases, sales, issuances and settlements caption of
the rollforward.      
      Fair Value Option         The following table presents information for certain assets and liabilities accounted for under the FVO. These assets and liabilities are initially measured at fair value.   

310

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)  
    Interest income on residential mortgage loans held-for-sale is recorded based on the stated rate of the loan and is recorded in net investment
income. Gains and losses from initial measurement, subsequent changes in estimated fair value and gains or losses on sales are recognized in other revenues. Such changes in estimated fair value for these loans were due to the following:

(2)  
    Gains and losses from initial measurement and subsequent changes in estimated fair value are recognized in other revenues for securitized reverse
residential mortgage loans and related liabilities.          

(3)  
    Assets and liabilities held by CSEs are comprised of the commercial mortgage loans and long-term debt held by CSEs. Gains and losses from initial
measurement, subsequent changes in estimated fair value and gains or losses on sales of these assets and liabilities are recognized in net investment gains (losses). Interest income on commercial mortgage loans held by CSEs is recognized in net
investment income. Interest expense from long-term debt of CSEs is recognized in other expenses.      
     Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements     
  The following table presents information for assets measured at estimated fair value on a nonrecurring basis during the
periods presented; that is, they are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis but are subject to fair value adjustments only in certain circumstances (for example, when there is evidence of impairment). The estimated fair values for these
assets were determined using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3).       

(1)  
    The carrying value after measurement has been adjusted for the excess of the carrying value prior to measurement over the estimated fair value.
Estimated fair values for impaired mortgage loans are based on      
         311

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

independent broker quotations or valuation models using unobservable inputs or, if the loans are in foreclosure or are otherwise determined to be collateral dependent, are based on the estimated
fair value of the underlying collateral or the present value of the expected future cash flows.          

(2)  
    These investments were accounted for using the cost method. Estimated fair value is determined from information provided in the financial statements
of the underlying entities including NAV data. These investments include private equity and debt funds that typically invest primarily in various strategies including domestic and international leveraged buyout funds; power, energy, timber and
infrastructure development funds; venture capital funds; and below investment grade debt and mezzanine debt funds. Distributions will be generated from investment gains, from operating income from the underlying investments of the funds and from
liquidation of the underlying assets of the funds. It is estimated that the underlying assets of the funds will be liquidated over the next two to 10 years. Unfunded commitments for these investments at both December 31, 2012 and 2011 were not
significant.          

(3)  
    These investments were accounted for using the cost method. Estimated fair value is determined from information provided in the financial statements
of the underlying entities including NAV data. These investments include several real estate funds that typically invest primarily in commercial real estate. Distributions will be generated from investment gains, from operating income from the
underlying investments of the funds and from liquidation of the underlying assets of the funds. It is estimated that the underlying assets of the funds will be liquidated over the next two to 10 years. Unfunded commitments for these investments at
both December 31, 2012 and 2011 were not significant.          

(4)  
    As discussed in Note 11, in 2012, the Company recorded an impairment of goodwill associated with the Retail Annuities reporting unit. In addition,
in 2011, the Company recorded an impairment of goodwill associated with MetLife Bank.          

(5)  
    As discussed in Note 5, in 2012, the Company recorded an impairment of VOCRA, which is included in other assets.      
     Fair Value of Financial Instruments Carried at Other Than Fair Value     
  The following tables provide fair value information for financial instruments that are carried on the balance sheet at
amounts other than fair value. These tables exclude the following financial instruments: cash and cash equivalents, accrued investment income, payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions, short-term debt and those
short-term investments that are not securities, such as time deposits, and therefore are not included in the three level hierarchy table disclosed in the    Recurring Fair Value Measurements  section. The estimated fair value of these
financial instruments, which are primarily classified in Level 2 and, to a lesser extent, in Level 1, approximate carrying value as they are short-term in nature such that the Company believes there is minimal risk of material changes in interest
rates or credit quality. The tables below also exclude financial instruments reported at estimated fair value on a recurring basis. See   Recurring Fair Value Measurements.  All remaining balance sheet amounts excluded from the table
below are not considered financial instruments subject to this disclosure.   
         312

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The carrying values and estimated fair values for such financial
instruments, and their corresponding placement in the fair value hierarchy, are summarized as follows at:       

313

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)  
    Commitments are off-balance sheet obligations. Negative estimated fair values represent off-balance sheet liabilities. See Note 21 for
additional information on these off-balance sheet obligations.      
   The methods, assumptions and significant valuation techniques and inputs used to estimate the fair
value of financial instruments are summarized as follows:         Mortgage Loans      
    Mortgage loans held-for-investment        For commercial and agricultural mortgage loans, the estimated fair value was primarily determined by estimating expected future cash flows and discounting them using current interest rates for similar
mortgage loans with similar credit risk. For residential mortgage loans, the estimated fair value was primarily determined from pricing for similar loans.        Mortgage loans held-for-sale        For these mortgage
loans, estimated fair value is determined using independent non-binding broker quotations or internal valuation models using significant unobservable inputs.   
         314

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
      Policy Loans      
  Policy loans with fixed interest rates are classified within Level 3. The estimated fair values for these loans are
determined using a discounted cash flow model applied to groups of similar policy loans determined by the nature of the underlying insurance liabilities. Cash flow estimates are developed by applying a weighted-average interest rate to the
outstanding principal balance of the respective group of policy loans and an estimated average maturity determined through experience studies of the past performance of policyholder repayment behavior for similar loans. These cash flows are
discounted using current risk-free interest rates with no adjustment for borrower credit risk as these loans are fully collateralized by the cash surrender value of the underlying insurance policy. Policy loans with variable interest rates are
classified within Level 2 and the estimated fair value approximates carrying value due to the absence of borrower credit risk and the short time period between interest rate resets, which presents minimal risk of a material change in estimated fair
value due to changes in market interest rates.         Real Estate Joint Ventures and Other Limited Partnership Interests
        The amounts disclosed in the preceding tables consist of those investments accounted for using the
cost method. The estimated fair values for such cost method investments are generally based on the Company s share of the NAV as provided in the financial statements of the investees. In certain circumstances, management may adjust the NAV by a
premium or discount when it has sufficient evidence to support applying such adjustments.         Other Invested Assets
        Other invested assets within the preceding tables are principally comprised of funds withheld,
various interest-bearing assets held in foreign subsidiaries and certain amounts due under contractual indemnifications. For funds withheld and for the various interest-bearing assets held in foreign subsidiaries, the Company evaluates the specific
facts and circumstances of each instrument to determine the appropriate estimated fair values. These estimated fair values were not materially different from the recognized carrying values.   
     Premiums, Reinsurance and Other Receivables      
  Premiums, reinsurance and other receivables in the preceding tables are principally comprised of certain amounts
recoverable under reinsurance agreements, amounts on deposit with financial institutions to facilitate daily settlements related to certain derivatives and amounts receivable for securities sold but not yet settled.   
  Amounts recoverable under ceded reinsurance agreements, which the Company has determined do not transfer significant risk
such that they are accounted for using the deposit method of accounting, have been classified as Level 3. The valuation is based on discounted cash flow methodologies using significant unobservable inputs. The estimated fair value is determined
using interest rates determined to reflect the appropriate credit standing of the assuming counterparty.      The
amounts on deposit for derivative settlements, classified within Level 2, essentially represent the equivalent of demand deposit balances and amounts due for securities sold are generally received over short periods such that the estimated fair
value approximates carrying value.         Other Assets      
  Other assets in the preceding tables are primarily composed of a receivable for cash paid to an unaffiliated financial
institution under the MetLife Reinsurance Company of Charleston ( MRC ) collateral financing arrangement described in Note 12. The estimated fair value of the receivable for the cash paid to the unaffiliated financial institution
under the MRC collateral financing arrangement is determined by discounting the expected future cash flows using a discount rate that reflects the credit rating of the unaffiliated financial institution.   
         315

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
      PABs      
  PABs in the preceding tables include investment contracts. Embedded derivatives on investment contracts and certain
variable annuity guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives are excluded from this caption in the preceding tables as they are separately presented in    Recurring Fair Value Measurements.    
  The investment contracts primarily include certain funding agreements, fixed deferred annuities, modified guaranteed
annuities, fixed term payout annuities and total control accounts. The valuation of these investment contracts is based on discounted cash flow methodologies using significant unobservable inputs. The estimated fair value is determined using current
market risk-free interest rates adding a spread to reflect the nonperformance risk in the liability.         Bank Deposits
        Due to the frequency of interest rate resets on customer bank deposits held in money market
accounts, the Company believes that there is minimal risk of a material change in interest rates such that the estimated fair value approximates carrying value. For time deposits, the Company has taken into consideration the sale price for the
disposition of the depository business of MetLife Bank to determine the estimated fair value of bank deposits. See Note 3.   
     Long-term Debt, Collateral Financing Arrangements and Junior Subordinated Debt Securities      
  The estimated fair values of long-term debt and junior subordinated debt securities are principally valued using market
standard valuation methodologies. Capital leases, which are not required to be disclosed at estimated fair value, are excluded from the preceding tables.      Valuations classified as Level 2 are based primarily on quoted prices in markets that are not active or using matrix pricing that use standard market observable inputs such as quoted prices in markets
that are not active and observable yields and spreads in the market. Instruments valued using discounted cash flow methodologies use standard market observable inputs including market yield curve, duration, call provisions, observable prices and
spreads for similar publicly traded or privately traded issues.      Valuations classified as Level 3 are based
primarily on discounted cash flow methodologies that utilize unobservable discount rates that can vary significantly based upon the specific terms of each individual arrangement. The determination of estimated fair values of collateral financing
arrangements incorporates valuations obtained from the counterparties to the arrangements, as part of the collateral management process.         Other Liabilities         Other liabilities consist
primarily of interest and dividends payable, amounts due for securities purchased but not yet settled, funds withheld amounts payable, which are contractually withheld by the Company in accordance with the terms of the reinsurance agreements, and
amounts payable under certain assumed reinsurance agreements, which are recorded using the deposit method of accounting. The Company evaluates the specific terms, facts and circumstances of each instrument to determine the appropriate estimated fair
values, which are not materially different from the carrying values, with the exception of certain deposit type reinsurance payables. For such payables, the estimated fair value is determined as the present value of expected future cash flows, which
are discounted using an interest rate determined to reflect the appropriate credit standing of the assuming counterparty.   
         316

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
      Separate Account Liabilities      
  Separate account liabilities included in the preceding tables represent those balances due to policyholders under
contracts that are classified as investment contracts.      Separate account liabilities classified as investment
contracts primarily represent variable annuities with no significant mortality risk to the Company such that the death benefit is equal to the account balance, funding agreements related to group life contracts and certain contracts that provide for
benefit funding.      Since separate account liabilities are fully funded by cash flows from the separate account
assets which are recognized at estimated fair value as described in the section    Recurring Fair Value Measurements,  the value of those assets approximates the estimated fair value of the related separate account liabilities.
The valuation techniques and inputs for separate account liabilities are similar to those described for separate account assets.         Mortgage Loan Commitments and Commitments to Fund Bank Credit Facilities, Bridge Loans and Private Corporate Bond Investments      
  The estimated fair values for mortgage loan commitments that will be held for investment and commitments to fund bank
credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bonds that will be held for investment reflected in the above tables represent the difference between the discounted expected future cash flows using interest rates that incorporate current
credit risk for similar instruments on the reporting date and the principal amounts of the commitments.   
      11.  Goodwill    

   Goodwill is the excess of cost over the estimated
fair value of net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that there may be justification for
conducting an interim test. Step 1 of the goodwill impairment process requires a comparison of the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying value. In performing the Company s goodwill impairment tests, the estimated fair values of the
reporting units are first determined using a market multiple valuation approach. When further corroboration is required, the Company uses a discounted cash flow valuation approach. For reporting units which are particularly sensitive to market
assumptions, such as the Retail Annuities and Life   Other reporting units, the Company may use additional valuation methodologies to estimate the reporting units  fair values.   
  The market multiple valuation approach utilizes market multiples of companies with similar businesses and the projected
operating earnings of the reporting unit. The discounted cash flow valuation approach requires judgments about revenues, operating earnings projections, capital market assumptions and discount rates. The key inputs, judgments and assumptions
necessary in determining estimated fair value of the reporting units include projected operating earnings, current book value, the level of economic capital required to support the mix of business, long-term growth rates, comparative market
multiples, the account value of in-force business, projections of new and renewal business, as well as margins on such business, the level of interest rates, credit spreads, equity market levels, and the discount rate that the Company believes is
appropriate for the respective reporting unit. The estimated fair values of the Retail Annuities and Life   Other reporting units are particularly sensitive to equity market levels.   
  When testing goodwill for impairment, the Company also considers its market capitalization in relation to the aggregate
estimated fair value of its reporting units. The Company applies significant judgment when determining the estimated fair value of the Company s reporting units and when assessing the relationship of
  
         317

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
market capitalization to the aggregate estimated fair value of its reporting units.
 As of December 31, 2012, the Company s market capitalization was below its consolidated book value. The Company reviewed the assumptions used in the valuation of its reporting units and concluded that the assumptions
were reasonable. In addition, the Company concluded that the control premium in relation to the lower market environment reflected an amount which management believes is within an acceptable range.   
   The valuation methodologies utilized are subject
to key judgments and assumptions that are sensitive to change. Estimates of fair value are inherently uncertain and represent only management s reasonable expectation regarding future developments. These estimates and the judgments and
assumptions upon which the estimates are based will, in all likelihood, differ in some respects from actual future results. Declines in the estimated fair value of the Company s reporting units could result in goodwill impairments in future
periods which could materially adversely affect the Company s results of operations or financial position.   
   In connection with its annual goodwill impairment testing, the market multiple and discounted cash
flow valuation approaches indicated that the fair value of the Retail Annuities reporting unit was below its carrying value. As a result, an actuarial appraisal, which estimates the net worth of the reporting unit, the value of existing business and
the value of new business, was also performed. This appraisal also resulted in a fair value of the Retail Annuities reporting unit that was less than the carrying value, indicating a potential for goodwill impairment. The growing concern regarding
an extended period of low interest rates was reflected in the fair value estimate, particularly on the returns a market buyer would assume on the fixed income portion of separate account annuity products. In addition, industry-wide inquiries by
regulators on the use of affiliated captive reinsurers for off-shore entities to reinsure insurance risks may limit access to this type of capital structure. As a result, a market buyer may discount the ability to fully utilize these structures,
which also affected the fair value estimate of the reporting unit. Accordingly, the Company performed Step 2 of the goodwill impairment process, which compares the implied fair value of goodwill with the carrying value of that goodwill in the
reporting unit to calculate the amount of goodwill impairment. The Company determined that all of the recorded goodwill associated with the Retail Annuities reporting unit was not recoverable and recorded a non-cash charge of $1.9 billion ($1.6
billion, net of income tax) for the impairment of the entire goodwill balance in the consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2012. Of this amount, $1.4 billion was impaired at MetLife, Inc. There was no impact on
income taxes.      In addition, the Company performed its annual goodwill impairment tests of its other reporting
units and concluded that the fair values of all such reporting units were in excess of their carrying values and, therefore, their goodwill was not impaired.   
         318

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Information regarding goodwill by segment, as well as
Corporate   Other, was as follows:       

(2)  
    The $405 million of net goodwill in Corporate   Other at December 31, 2011 relates to goodwill acquired as a part of the 2005
Travelers acquisition. For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, the $405 million of Corporate   Other goodwill was allocated to business units of the Retail; Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits; and Corporate Benefit
     
         319

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

Funding segments in the amounts of $210 million, $9 million and $186 million, respectively. The Retail segment amount was further allocated within the segment to the
Life   Other and the Annuities reporting units in the amounts of $34 million and $176 million, respectively. As reflected in the table, the $176 million related to the Retail Annuities reporting unit was impaired in the third
quarter of 2012.          

(3)  
    Goodwill associated with the ALICO Acquisition was allocated among the Company s segments in the first quarter of 2011.

(4)  
    As of November 1, 2011, American Life s current and deferred income taxes were affected by measurement period adjustments, which resulted
in a $39 million increase to the goodwill recorded as part of the ALICO Acquisition related to Japan which is included in the Asia segment. See Note 19.      

(5)  
    In 2011, the Company performed a goodwill impairment test on MetLife Bank, which was a separate reporting unit in Corporate   Other. A
comparison of the fair value of the reporting unit, using a market multiple approach, to its carrying value indicated a potential for goodwill impairment. A further comparison of the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill with its
carrying amount indicated that the entire amount of goodwill associated with MetLife Bank was impaired. Consequently, the Company recorded a $65 million goodwill impairment charge that is reflected as a net investment loss for the year ended
December 31, 2011.      

      12.  Long-term and Short-term Debt    
   Long-term and short-term debt outstanding was as follows:   

(1)  
    Range of interest rates and weighted average interest rates are for the year ended December 31, 2012.      

The aggregate maturities of long-term debt at December 31, 2012 for the next five years and
thereafter are $753 million in 2013, $1.3 billion in 2014, $1.2 billion in 2015, $1.2 billion in 2016, $504 million in 2017 and $11.5 billion thereafter.   
  Advances agreements and capital lease obligations are collateralized and rank highest in priority, followed by unsecured
senior debt which consists of senior notes and other notes, followed by subordinated debt which consists of junior subordinated debt securities (see Note 14). Payments of interest and principal on the
  
         320

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
Company s surplus notes, which are subordinate to all other obligations at the operating company level and are senior to obligations at MetLife, Inc., may be made only with the prior
approval of the insurance department of the state of domicile. Collateral financing arrangements (see Note 13) are supported by either surplus notes of subsidiaries or financing arrangements with MetLife, Inc. and, accordingly, have priority
consistent with other such obligations.      Certain of the Company s debt instruments, credit facilities and
committed facilities contain various administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants. The Company believes it was in compliance with all such covenants at December 31, 2012.   
    Senior Notes   Senior Debt Securities Underlying Common Equity Units     
  In connection with the financing of the ALICO Acquisition, in November 2010, MetLife, Inc. issued to AM Holdings
$3.0 billion (estimated fair value of $3.0 billion) of three series of Debt Securities, which constitute a part of the common equity units more fully described in Note 15.   
  In October 2012, MetLife, Inc. closed the successful remarketing of the Series C Debt Securities underlying the common
equity units. The Series C Debt Securities were remarketed as 1.756% Series C senior debt securities Tranche 1 and 3.048% Series C senior debt securities Tranche 2, due December 2017 and December 2022, respectively. MetLife, Inc. did not receive any
proceeds from the remarketing.      The Series D Debt Securities and Series E Debt Securities initially bear
interest at 1.92% and 2.46%, respectively (an average rate of 2.19%), initially mature in June 2024 and June 2045, respectively, and are subject to remarketing. The interest rates will be reset in connection with the successful remarketings of
the Debt Securities. Prior to the first scheduled attempted remarketing of the Series E Debt Securities, such Debt Securities will be divided into two tranches equal in principal amount with maturity dates of June 2018 and June 2045.
       Senior Notes   Other Issuances     
  In August 2012, MetLife, Inc. issued $750 million of senior notes due in August 2042. The senior notes bear interest
at a fixed rate of 4.125%, payable semi-annually. In connection with the issuance, MetLife, Inc. incurred $7 million of related costs which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized over the term of the
senior notes.      In August 2010, in anticipation of the ALICO Acquisition, MetLife, Inc. issued senior notes as
follows:       

$250 million floating rate senior notes due August 6, 2013, which bear interest at a rate equal to three-month LIBOR, reset quarterly, plus
1.25%, payable quarterly.      
         321

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   In connection with these senior note issuances, MetLife, Inc. incurred
$15 million of issuance costs which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized over the terms of the senior notes.        Advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York     
  MetLife Bank has been a member of the FHLB of NY and, in connection with such membership, entered into advances
agreements with the FHLB of NY under which MetLife Bank received cash advances, which were reflected in long-term debt or short-term debt according to the tenor of the advances. In January 2012, MetLife Bank discontinued taking advances from the
FHLB of NY. In April 2012, MetLife Bank transferred cash to MLIC related to $3.8 billion of outstanding advances which had been included in long-term debt, and MLIC assumed the associated obligations under terms similar to those of the
transferred advances by issuing funding agreements for which the liability is included in PABs. During the year ended December 31, 2012, MetLife Bank did not receive advances. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, MetLife Bank
received advances totaling $1.3 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, MetLife Bank made repayments totaling $374 million, $750 million, and $349 million,
respectively, related to long-term borrowings under the advances agreements. The amount of MetLife Bank s liability for advances was $4.8 billion at December 31, 2011, which was included in long-term debt and short-term debt depending
upon the original tenor of the advance. There was no long-term debt or short-term debt liability for advances at December 31, 2012.        Short-term Debt        Short-term debt with maturities of
one year or less was as follows:       

During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, the weighted average interest rate on
short-term debt was 0.17%, 0.33% and 0.35%, respectively.        Interest Expense     
  Interest expense related to long-term and short-term debt included in other expenses was $871 million,
$975 million and $815 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Such amounts do not include interest expense on collateral financing arrangements, junior subordinated debt securities, common equity
units or long-term debt related to CSEs. See Notes 8, 13, 14 and 15.        Credit and Committed Facilities
       The Company maintains unsecured credit facilities and committed facilities, which aggregated
$4.0 billion and $12.4 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2012. When drawn upon, these facilities bear interest at varying rates in accordance with the respective agreements.   
         322

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
      Credit Facilities      
  The unsecured credit facilities are used for general corporate purposes, to support the borrowers  commercial paper
programs and for the issuance of letters of credit. Total fees expensed associated with these credit facilities were $30 million, $35 million and $17 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and
are included in other expenses. Information on these credit facilities at December 31, 2012 was as follows:       

(1)  
    In September 2012, MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Funding, Inc. entered into a $1.0 billion five-year credit agreement which amended and restated the
three-year agreement dated October 2010. All borrowings under the 2012 five-year credit agreement must be repaid by September 2017, except that letters of credit outstanding on that date may remain outstanding until no later than September 2018.
MetLife, Inc. incurred costs of $4 million related to the amended and restated credit facility, which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs will be amortized over the remaining term of the amended and restated credit
facility.      
      Committed Facilities      
  The committed facilities are used for collateral for certain of the Company s affiliated reinsurance liabilities.
Total fees expensed associated with these committed facilities were $96 million, $93 million and $92 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and are included in other expenses. Information on
these committed facilities at December 31, 2012 was as follows:       

323

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)  
    MetLife, Inc. is guarantor under this agreement.          

(2)  
    The drawdown on this facility is associated with a collateral financing arrangement described more fully in Note 13.
     
   As a result of the offerings of certain senior notes (see    Senior Notes   Other
Issuances ) and common stock (see Note 16), the commitment letter for a $5.0 billion senior credit facility, which MetLife, Inc. signed to partially finance the ALICO Acquisition, was terminated. During March 2010, MetLife, Inc. paid
$28 million in fees related to this senior credit facility, all of which were included in other expenses during the year ended December 31, 2010.   
      13.  Collateral Financing Arrangements    
     Associated with the Closed Block     
  In December 2007, MLIC reinsured a portion of its closed block liabilities to MRC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of MetLife,
Inc. In connection with this transaction, MRC issued, to investors placed by an unaffiliated financial institution, $2.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of 35-year surplus notes to provide statutory reserve support for the assumed closed
block liabilities. Interest on the surplus notes accrues at an annual rate of three-month LIBOR plus 0.55%, payable quarterly. The ability of MRC to make interest and principal payments on the surplus notes is contingent upon South Carolina
regulatory approval.      Simultaneous with the issuance of the surplus notes, MetLife, Inc. entered into an
agreement with the unaffiliated financial institution, under which MetLife, Inc. is entitled to the interest paid by MRC on the surplus notes of three-month LIBOR plus 0.55% in exchange for the payment of three-month LIBOR plus 1.12%, payable
quarterly on such amount as adjusted, as described below. MetLife, Inc. may also be required to pledge collateral or make payments to the unaffiliated financial institution related to any decline in the estimated fair value of the surplus notes. Any
such payments would be accounted for as a receivable and included in other assets on the Company s consolidated balance sheets and would not reduce the principal amount outstanding of the surplus notes. Such payments would, however, reduce the
amount of interest payments due from MetLife, Inc. under the agreement. Any payment received from the unaffiliated financial institution would reduce the receivable by an amount equal to such payment and would also increase the amount of interest
payments due from MetLife, Inc. under the agreement. In addition, the unaffiliated financial institution may be required to pledge collateral to MetLife, Inc. related to any increase in the estimated fair value of the surplus notes. MetLife, Inc.
may also be required to make a payment to the unaffiliated financial institution in connection with any early termination of this agreement.      In June 2012 and December 2011, following regulatory approval, MRC repurchased and canceled $451 million and $650 million, respectively, in aggregate principal amount of the surplus notes. Payments made
by the Company in June 2012 and December 2011 associated with the partial repurchases, which also included payments made to the unaffiliated financial institution, totaled $451 million and $650 million, respectively, exclusive of accrued interest on
the surplus notes. In connection with the partial repurchases, in June 2012 and December 2011, the amount of the receivable from the unaffiliated financial institution decreased $59 million and $84 million, respectively.   
  In addition, in June 2011, MetLife, Inc. received $100 million from the unaffiliated financial institution related to an
increase in the estimated fair value of the surplus notes. No such payments were made or received by MetLife, Inc. during 2012 and 2010.   
         324

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the amount of the surplus notes
outstanding was $1.4 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the amount of the receivable from the unaffiliated financial institution was $182 million and $241 million, respectively.   
  In addition, at December 31, 2012 and 2011, MetLife, Inc. had pledged collateral with an estimated fair value of
$120 million and $125 million, respectively, to the unaffiliated financial institution.      A majority of
the proceeds from the offering of the surplus notes was placed in a trust, which is consolidated by the Company, to support MRC s statutory obligations associated with the assumed closed block liabilities. At December 31, 2012 and 2011,
the estimated fair value of assets held in trust by the Company was $1.6 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively. The assets are principally invested in fixed maturity securities and are presented as such within the Company s consolidated
balance sheets, with the related income included within net investment income in the Company s consolidated statements of operations. Interest expense on the collateral financing arrangement is included as a component of other expenses.
     Interest expense related to this collateral financing arrangement was $26 million, $35 million and
$36 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.        Associated with Secondary
Guarantees        In May 2007, MetLife, Inc. and MRSC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of MetLife, Inc., entered
into a 30-year collateral financing arrangement with an unaffiliated financial institution that provides up to $3.5 billion of statutory reserve support for MRSC associated with reinsurance obligations under intercompany reinsurance agreements.
Such statutory reserves are associated with universal life secondary guarantees and are required under U.S. Valuation of Life Policies Model Regulation (commonly referred to as Regulation A-XXX). At both December 31, 2012 and 2011,
$2.8 billion had been drawn upon under the collateral financing arrangement. Proceeds from the collateral financing arrangement were placed in trusts to support MRSC s statutory obligations associated with the reinsurance of secondary
guarantees. The trusts are VIEs which are consolidated by the Company. The unaffiliated financial institution is entitled to the return on the investment portfolio held by the trusts. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company held assets in
trust with an estimated fair value of $3.4 billion and $3.3 billion, respectively, associated with the collateral financing arrangement. The assets are principally invested in fixed maturity securities and are presented as such within the
Company s consolidated balance sheets, with the related income included within net investment income in the Company s consolidated statements of operations. Interest expense on the collateral financing arrangement is included as a
component of other expenses. The collateral financing arrangement may be extended by agreement of MetLife, Inc. and the unaffiliated financial institution on each anniversary of the closing.   
  In connection with the collateral financing arrangement, MetLife, Inc. entered into an agreement with the same
unaffiliated financial institution under which MetLife, Inc. is entitled to the return on the investment portfolio held by the trusts established in connection with this collateral financing arrangement in exchange for the payment of a stated rate
of return to the unaffiliated financial institution of three-month LIBOR plus 0.70%, payable quarterly. MetLife, Inc. may also be required to make payments to the unaffiliated financial institution, for deposit into the trusts, related to any
decline in the estimated fair value of the assets held by the trusts, as well as amounts outstanding upon maturity or early termination of the collateral financing arrangement. During 2012, 2011 and 2010, no payments were made or received by
MetLife, Inc. Cumulatively, since May 2007, MetLife, Inc. has contributed a total of $680 million as a result of declines in the estimated fair value of the assets in the trusts, all of which was deposited into the trusts.   
         325

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   In addition, MetLife, Inc. may be required to pledge collateral to the
unaffiliated financial institution under this agreement. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, MetLife, Inc. had pledged $78 million and $92 million under this agreement, respectively.   
  Interest expense related to this collateral financing arrangement was $33 million, $29 million and
$30 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
      14.  Junior Subordinated Debt Securities    
     Outstanding Junior Subordinated Debt Securities     
  Outstanding junior subordinated debt securities and trust securities which MetLife, Inc. will exchange for junior
subordinated debt securities prior to redemption or repayment were as follows:       

(1)  
    MetLife Capital Trust X and MetLife Capital Trust IV are VIEs which are consolidated in the financial statements of the Company. The
securities issued by these entities are exchangeable surplus trust securities, which will be exchanged for a like amount of MetLife, Inc. s junior subordinated debt securities on the scheduled redemption date; mandatorily under certain
circumstances, and at any time upon MetLife, Inc. exercising its option to redeem the securities. The exchangeable surplus trust securities are classified as junior subordinated debt securities for purposes of financial statement presentation.

(2)  
    Prior to the scheduled redemption date, interest is payable semiannually in arrears.      

(3)  
    In the event the securities are not redeemed on or before the scheduled redemption date, interest will accrue after such date at an annual rate of
three-month LIBOR plus the indicated margin, payable quarterly in arrears.      
   In connection with each of the securities described above, MetLife, Inc. may redeem or may cause the
redemption of the securities (i) in whole or in part, at any time on or after the date five years prior to the scheduled redemption date at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the date of redemption, or
(ii) in certain circumstances, in whole or in part, prior to the date five years prior to the scheduled redemption date at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the date of redemption or, if greater, a
make-whole price. MetLife, Inc. also has the right to, and in certain circumstances the requirement to, defer interest payments on the securities for a period up to 10 years. Interest compounds during such periods of deferral. If interest is
deferred for more than five consecutive years, MetLife, Inc. is required to use proceeds from the sale of its common stock or warrants on common stock to satisfy this interest   
         326

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
payment obligation. In connection with each of the securities described above, MetLife, Inc. entered into a separate replacement capital covenant ( RCC ). As part of each RCC, MetLife,
Inc. agreed that it will not repay, redeem, or purchase the securities on or before a date 10 years prior to the final maturity date of each issuance, unless, subject to certain limitations, it has received cash proceeds during a specified period
from the sale of specified replacement securities. Each RCC will terminate upon the occurrence of certain events, including an acceleration of the applicable securities due to the occurrence of an event of default. The RCCs are not intended for the
benefit of holders of the securities and may not be enforced by them. Rather, each RCC is for the benefit of the holders of a designated series of MetLife, Inc. s other indebtedness (the  Covered Debt ). Initially, the Covered Debt
for each of the securities described above was MetLife, Inc. s 5.70% senior notes due 2035 (the  Senior Notes ). As a result of the issuance of MetLife, Inc. s 10.750% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due
2069 (the  10.750% JSDs ), the 10.750% JSDs became the Covered Debt with respect to, and in accordance with, the terms of the RCC relating to MetLife, Inc. s 6.40% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2066. The
Senior Notes continue to be the Covered Debt with respect to, and in accordance with, the terms of the RCCs relating to each of MetLife Capital Trust IV s 7.875% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Exchangeable Surplus Trust Securities, MetLife Capital
Trust X s 9.250% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Exchangeable Surplus Trust Securities and the 10.750% JSDs. MetLife, Inc. also entered into a replacement capital obligation which will commence during the six month period prior to the scheduled
redemption date of each of the securities described above and under which MetLife, Inc. must use reasonable commercial efforts to raise replacement capital to permit repayment of the securities through the issuance of certain qualifying capital
securities.      Interest expense on outstanding junior subordinated debt securities was $258 million for
each of the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.   
      15.  Common Equity Units    
     Acquisition of ALICO     
  In connection with the financing of the ALICO Acquisition in November 2010, MetLife, Inc. issued to AM Holdings
40.0 million common equity units with an aggregate stated amount at issuance of $3.0 billion and an estimated fair value of $3.2 billion. Each common equity unit has an initial stated amount of $75 per unit and initially consists of:
(i) the Purchase Contracts, obligating the holder to purchase, on a subsequent settlement date, a variable number of shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock, par value $0.01 per share, for a purchase price of $25 ($75 in the aggregate); and
(ii) a 1/40 undivided beneficial ownership interest in each of three series of Debt Securities issued by MetLife, Inc., each series of Debt Securities having an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion. Distributions on the common equity
units will be made quarterly, and will consist of contract payments on the Purchase Contracts and interest payments on the Debt Securities, at an aggregate annual rate of 5.00% of the stated amount at any time. The excess of the estimated fair value
of the common equity units over the estimated fair value of the Debt Securities (see Note 12), after accounting for the present value of future contract payments recorded in other liabilities, resulted in a net decrease to additional paid-in
capital of $69 million, representing the fair value of the Purchase Contracts discussed below. On March 8, 2011, AM Holdings sold, in a public offering, all the common equity units it received as consideration from MetLife in connection
with the ALICO Acquisition. The common equity units are listed on the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ).   
     Purchase Contracts         Settlement of the Purchase Contracts of each series will occur upon the successful remarketing of the related series of Debt Securities, or upon a final failed remarketing of the related series, as
described below under   Debt Securities.  On each settlement date subsequent to a successful remarketing, the holder will pay $25 per   
         327

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
common equity unit and MetLife, Inc. will issue to such holder a variable number of shares of its common stock in settlement of the applicable Purchase Contract. The number of shares to be issued
will depend on the average of the daily volume-weighted average prices of MetLife, Inc. s common stock during the 20 trading day periods ending on, and including, the third day prior to the initial scheduled settlement date for each series of
Purchase Contracts. The Series C Purchase Contracts have been settled as described in    Remarketing of Debt Securities and Settlement of Purchase Contracts.  The initially-scheduled settlement dates for the remaining contracts are
September 11, 2013 for the Series D Purchase Contracts and October 8, 2014 for the Series E Purchase Contracts. If the average value of MetLife, Inc. s common stock as calculated pursuant to the stock purchase agreement
dated as of March 7, 2010, as amended, by and among MetLife, Inc., AIG and AM Holdings (the  Stock Purchase Agreement ) during the applicable 20 trading day period is less than or equal to $35.42, as such amount may be adjusted
(the  Reference Price ), the number of shares to be issued in settlement of the Purchase Contract will equal $25 divided by the Reference Price, as calculated pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement (the  Maximum Settlement
Rate ). If the market value of MetLife, Inc. s common stock is greater than or equal to $44.275, as such amount may be adjusted (the  Threshold Appreciation Price ), the number of shares to be issued in settlement of the Purchase
Contract will equal $25 divided by the Threshold Appreciation Price, as so calculated (the  Minimum Settlement Rate ). If the market value of MetLife, Inc. s common stock is greater than the Reference Price and less than the Threshold
Appreciation Price, the number of shares to be issued will equal $25 divided by the applicable market value, as so calculated. In the event of an unsuccessful remarketing of any series of Debt Securities and the postponement of settlement to a later
date, the average market value used to calculate the settlement rate for a particular series will not be recalculated, although certain corporate events may require adjustments to the settlement rate. After settlement of the remaining Purchase
Contracts, MetLife, Inc. will receive proceeds of $2.0 billion and issue between 45.2 million and 56.5 million shares of its common stock, subject to certain adjustments, in addition to the proceeds received and shares issued upon
settlement of the Series C Purchase Contracts in October 2012. The holder of a common equity unit may, at its option, settle the related Purchase Contracts before the applicable settlement date. However, upon early settlement, the holder will
receive the Minimum Settlement Rate.      Distributions on the Purchase Contracts will be made quarterly at an
average annual rate of 3.02%. The value of the Purchase Contracts at issuance of $247 million was calculated as the present value of the future contract payments and was recorded in other liabilities with an offsetting decrease in additional
paid-in capital. The other liabilities balance will be reduced as contract payments are made. Contract payments of $84 million and $102 million were made for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   
     Debt Securities         The Debt Securities are senior, unsecured notes of MetLife, Inc. which, in the aggregate, pay quarterly distributions at an initial average annual rate of 1.98% and are included in long-term debt (see
Note 12 for further discussion of terms). The Debt Securities are pledged as collateral to secure the obligations of each common equity unit holder under the related Purchase Contracts. Each series of the Debt Securities will be subject to a
remarketing and sold on behalf of participating holders to investors. The proceeds of a remarketing, net of any related fees, will be applied on behalf of participating holders who so elect to settle any obligation of the holder to pay cash under
the related Purchase Contract on the applicable settlement dates. The Series C Purchase Contracts have been settled as described in    Remarketing of Debt Securities and Settlement of Purchase Contracts.  The initially-scheduled
settlement dates for the remaining contracts are September 11, 2013 for the Series D Debt Securities and October 8, 2014 for the Series E Debt Securities, subject to delay if there are one or more unsuccessful remarketings. If
the initial attempted remarketing of a series is unsuccessful, up to two additional remarketing attempts will occur. At the remarketing date, the remarketing agent may reset the interest rate on the Debt Securities, subject to a reset cap for each
of the first two attempted remarketings of each series. If a remarketing is successful, the reset rate will apply to all outstanding Debt Securities of the applicable tranche   
         328

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
of the remarketed series, whether or not the holder participated in the remarketing and will become effective on the settlement date of such remarketing. If the first remarketing attempt with
respect to a series is unsuccessful, the applicable Purchase Contract settlement date will be delayed for three calendar months, at which time a second remarketing attempt will occur in connection with settlement. If the second remarketing attempt
is unsuccessful, one additional delay may occur on the same basis. If both additional remarketing attempts are unsuccessful, a  final failed remarketing  will have occurred, and the interest rate on such series of Debt Securities will not
be reset and the holder may put such series of Debt Securities to MetLife, Inc. at a price equal to its principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, and apply the principal amount against the holder s obligations under the related
Purchase Contract.        Remarketing of Debt Securities and Settlement of Purchase Contracts     
  In October 2012, MetLife, Inc. closed the successful remarketing of the Series C Debt Securities underlying the common
equity units. The Series C Debt Securities were remarketed as 1.756% Series C senior debt securities Tranche 1 and 3.048% Series C senior debt securities Tranche 2, due December 2017 and December 2022, respectively. MetLife, Inc. did not receive any
proceeds from the remarketing. Common equity unit holders used the remarketing proceeds to settle their payment obligations under the applicable Series C Purchase Contracts. The subsequent settlement of the Series C Purchase Contracts occurred in
October 2012, providing proceeds to MetLife, Inc. of $1.0 billion in exchange for shares of MetLife, Inc. s common stock. MetLife, Inc. delivered 28,231,956 shares of its newly issued common stock to settle the stock purchase contracts.
  
      16.  Equity    
     Preferred Stock     
  There are 200,000,000 authorized shares of preferred stock, of which 6,857,000 shares were designated for issuance of
convertible preferred stock in connection with the financing of the ALICO Acquisition in 2010. See    Convertible Preferred Stock  below.      MetLife, Inc. has outstanding 24 million shares of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (the  Series A preferred shares ) with a $0.01 par value per share,
and a liquidation preference of $25 per share.      MetLife, Inc. has outstanding 60 million shares of 6.50%
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B (the  Series B preferred shares ), with a $0.01 par value per share, and a liquidation preference of $25 per share.   
  The preferred stock ranks senior to the common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation rights. Dividends on the
preferred stock are not cumulative. Holders of the preferred stock will be entitled to receive dividend payments only when, as and if declared by MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board. If dividends are
declared on the Series A preferred shares, they will be payable quarterly, in arrears, at an annual rate of the greater of: (i) 1.00% above three-month LIBOR on the related LIBOR determination date; or (ii) 4.00%. Any dividends
declared on the Series B preferred shares will be payable quarterly, in arrears, at an annual fixed rate of 6.50%. Accordingly, in the event that dividends are not declared on the preferred stock for payment on any dividend payment date, then
those dividends will cease to accrue and be payable. If a dividend is not declared before the dividend payment date, MetLife, Inc. has no obligation to pay dividends accrued for that dividend period whether or not dividends are declared and paid in
future periods. No dividends may, however, be paid or declared on MetLife, Inc. s common stock   or any other securities ranking junior to the preferred stock   unless the full dividends for the latest completed dividend
period on all preferred stock, and any parity stock, have been declared and paid or provided for.   
         329

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   MetLife, Inc. is prohibited from declaring dividends on the preferred
stock if it fails to meet specified capital adequacy, net income and equity levels. See    Dividend Restrictions.       The preferred stock does not have voting rights except in certain circumstances where the dividends have not been paid for an equivalent of six or more dividend payment periods whether or not those
periods are consecutive. Under such circumstances, the holders of the preferred stock have certain voting rights with respect to members of the Board of Directors of MetLife, Inc.   
  The preferred stock is not subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund, retirement fund, purchase fund or similar
provisions. The preferred stock is redeemable at MetLife, Inc. s option in whole or in part, at a redemption price of $25 per share of preferred stock, plus declared and unpaid dividends.   
  In December 2008, MetLife, Inc. entered into an RCC related to the preferred stock. As part of such RCC, MetLife, Inc.
agreed that it will not repay, redeem or purchase the preferred shares on or before December 31, 2018, unless, subject to certain limitations, it has received proceeds during a specified period from the sale of specified replacement securities.
The RCC is for the benefit of the holders of the related Covered Debt, which was initially the Senior Notes. As a result of the issuance of the 10.750% JSDs, the 10.750% JSDs became the Covered Debt with respect to, and in accordance with, the terms
of the RCC relating to the preferred shares. The RCC will terminate upon the occurrence of certain events, including the date on which MetLife, Inc. has no series of outstanding eligible debt securities.   
  Information on the declaration, record and payment dates, as well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the
Series A and Series B preferred shares was as follows:       

See Note 23 for information on subsequent dividends declared.   
         330

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Convertible Preferred Stock     
  In connection with the financing of the ALICO Acquisition in November 2010, MetLife, Inc. issued to AM Holdings 6,857,000
shares of convertible preferred stock with a $0.01 par value per share, a liquidation preference of $0.01 per share and a fair value of $2.8 billion. On March 8, 2011, MetLife, Inc. repurchased and canceled all of the convertible
preferred stock for $3.0 billion in cash, which resulted in a preferred stock redemption premium of $146 million.      For purposes of the earnings per common share calculation, for the year ended December 31, 2010, the convertible preferred stock was assumed converted into shares of common stock for both basic and
diluted weighted average common shares. See Note 20.        Common Stock     
     Issuances         In October 2012, MetLife, Inc. delivered 28,231,956 shares of newly issued common stock for $1.0 billion. The issuance was made in connection with the settlement of the Series C Purchase Contracts.
See Note 15.      In March 2011, MetLife, Inc. issued 68,570,000 new shares of its common stock in a public
offering at a price of $43.25 per share for gross proceeds of $3.0 billion. In connection with this offering of common stock, $16 million of issuance costs were incurred which have been recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in
capital. The proceeds were used to repurchase the convertible preferred stock issued to AM Holdings in November 2010. See Note 3.      In November 2010, MetLife, Inc. issued to AM Holdings in connection with the financing of the ALICO Acquisition 78,239,712 new shares of its common stock at $40.90 per share with a fair value of
$3.2 billion.      In August 2010, MetLife, Inc. issued 86,250,000 new shares of its common stock at a price
of $42.00 per share for gross proceeds of $3.6 billion. In connection with this offering of common stock, $94 million of issuance costs were incurred which have been recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in capital.   
  During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, 5,497,752, 3,549,211 and 2,182,174 new shares of common
stock were issued for $171 million, $115 million and $74 million, respectively, to satisfy various stock option exercises and other stock-based awards. There were no shares of common stock issued from treasury stock during the years ended
December 31, 2012 and 2011, while during the year ended December 31, 2010, 332,121 shares of common stock were issued from treasury stock for $18 million to satisfy various stock option exercises and other stock-based awards.
        Repurchase Programs      
  At December 31, 2012, MetLife, Inc. had $1.3 billion remaining under its common stock repurchase program
authorizations. During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, no shares of common stock were repurchased under these repurchase program authorizations.   
  Under the aforementioned authorizations, MetLife, Inc. may purchase its common stock from the MetLife Policyholder Trust,
in the open market (including pursuant to the terms of a pre-set trading plan meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) and in privately negotiated transactions. Any future common stock repurchases will
be dependent upon several factors, including the Company s capital position, its liquidity, its financial strength and credit ratings, general market conditions and the market price of MetLife, Inc. s common stock compared to
management s assessment of the stock s underlying value and applicable regulatory approvals, as well as other legal and accounting factors.   
         331

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
      Dividends      
  The table below presents declaration, record and payment dates, as well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for
common stock:       

(1)  
    Includes dividends on convertible preferred stock (see    Convertible Preferred Stock )      
   See Note 23 for information on subsequent dividends declared.   
  The funding of the cash dividends and operating expenses of MetLife, Inc. is primarily provided by cash dividends from
MetLife, Inc. s insurance subsidiaries. The statutory capital and surplus, or net assets, of MetLife, Inc. s insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions except to the extent that dividends are allowed to be paid in a
given year without prior regulatory approval. Dividends exceeding these limitations can generally be made subject to regulatory approval. The nature and amount of these dividend restrictions, as well as the statutory capital and surplus of MetLife,
Inc. s U.S. insurance subsidiaries, are disclosed in    Statutory Equity and Income  and    Dividend Restrictions   Insurance Operations.  MetLife, Inc. s principal non-U.S. insurance operations are
branches or subsidiaries of American Life, a U.S. insurance subsidiary of the Company. In addition, the payment of dividends by MetLife, Inc. to its shareholders is also subject to restrictions. See    Dividend Restrictions   MetLife,
Inc.         Stock-Based Compensation Plans     
     Description of Plans for Employees and Agents   General Terms      
  The MetLife, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the  2000 Stock Plan ) authorized the granting of
awards to employees and agents in the form of options ( Stock Options ) to buy shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock ( Shares ) that either qualify as incentive Stock Options under Section 422A of the Code or are
non-qualified. By December 31, 2009 all awards under the 2000 Stock Plan had either vested or been forfeited. No awards have been made under the 2000 Stock Plan since 2005.   
  Under the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  2005 Stock Plan ), awards granted to
employees and agents may be in the form of Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares or Performance Share Units, Cash-Based Awards and Stock-Based Awards (each as defined in the 2005
Stock Plan with reference to Shares).      The aggregate number of shares authorized for issuance under the 2005
Stock Plan is 68,000,000, plus those shares available but not utilized under the 2000 Stock Plan and those shares utilized under the 2000 Stock Plan that are recovered due to forfeiture of Stock Options. Each share issued under the 2005 Stock Plan
in connection with a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right reduces the number of Shares remaining for issuance under that plan by one, and each Share issued under the 2005 Stock Plan in connection with awards other than Stock Options or Stock
Appreciation Rights reduces the number of Shares remaining for issuance under that plan by   
         332

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
1.179 Shares. At December 31, 2012, the aggregate number of Shares remaining available for issuance pursuant to the 2005 Stock Plan was 24,715,318. Stock Option exercises and other
awards settled in Shares are satisfied through the issuance of Shares held in treasury by the Company or by the issuance of new Shares.      Compensation expense related to awards under the 2005 Stock Plan is recognized based on the number of awards expected to vest, which represents the awards granted less expected forfeitures over the life
of the award, as estimated at the date of grant. Unless a material deviation from the assumed forfeiture rate is observed during the term in which the awards are expensed, any adjustment necessary to reflect differences in actual experience is
recognized in the period the award becomes payable or exercisable.      Compensation expense related to awards
under the 2005 Stock Plan is principally related to the issuance of Stock Options, Performance Shares and Restricted Stock Units. The majority of the awards granted each year under the 2005 Stock Plan are made in the first quarter of each year.
     Certain stock-based awards provide solely for cash settlement based on changes in the price of Shares and
other factors ( Phantom Stock-Based Awards ). Such awards are made under the MetLife, Inc. International Unit Option Incentive Plan, the MetLife International Performance Unit Incentive Plan, and the MetLife International Restricted Unit
Incentive Plan.         Description of Plans for Non-Management Directors   General Terms      
  The MetLife, Inc. 2000 Directors Stock Plan, as amended (the  2000 Directors Stock Plan ) authorized
the granting of awards in the form of Shares, non-qualified Stock Options, or a combination of the foregoing to non-management Directors of MetLife, Inc. At December 31, 2009, all awards under the 2000 Directors Stock Plan had either
vested or been forfeited. No awards have been made under the 2000 Directors Stock Plan since 2004.      Under
the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Non-Management Director Stock Compensation Plan (the  2005 Directors Stock Plan ), awards granted may be in the form of non-qualified Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or Restricted
Stock Units, or Stock-Based Awards (each as defined in the 2005 Directors Stock Plan with reference to Shares) to non-management Directors of MetLife, Inc. The number of Shares authorized for issuance under the 2005 Directors Stock
Plan is 2,000,000. There were no Shares carried forward from the 2000 Directors Stock Plan to the 2005 Directors Stock Plan. At December 31, 2012, the aggregate number of Shares remaining available for issuance pursuant to the
2005 Directors Stock Plan was 1,733,758. Stock Option exercises and other awards settled in Shares are satisfied through the issuance of Shares held in treasury by the Company or by the issuance of new Shares.   
  Compensation expense related to awards under the 2005 Directors Plan is recognized based on the number of Shares
awarded. The only awards made to date under the 2005 Directors Stock Plan have been Stock-Based Awards that have vested immediately. The majority of the awards granted each year under the 2005 Directors Stock Plan are made in the second quarter
of each year.   
         333

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
      Compensation Expense Related to Stock-Based Compensation
        The components of compensation expense related to stock-based compensation which includes
compensation expense related to Phantom Stock-Based Awards, and excludes the insignificant compensation expense related to the 2005 Directors Stock Plan, were as follows:   

(1)  
    Performance Shares expected to vest and the related compensation expenses may be further adjusted by the performance factor most likely to be
achieved, as estimated by management, at the end of the performance period.      
   The following table presents the total unrecognized compensation expense related to stock-based
compensation and the expected weighted average period over which these expenses will be recognized at:       

Equity Awards           Stock Options        Stock Options are the contingent
right of award holders to purchase Shares at a stated price for a limited time. All Stock Options have an exercise price equal to the closing price of a Share reported on the NYSE on the date of grant, and have a maximum term of 10 years. The vast
majority of Stock Options granted have become or will become exercisable at a rate of one-third of each award on each of the first three anniversaries of the grant date. Other Stock Options have become or will become exercisable on the third
anniversary of the grant date. Vesting is subject to continued service, except for employees who are retirement eligible and in certain other limited circumstances.   
         334

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   A summary of the activity related to Stock Options for the year ended
December 31, 2012 was as follows:       

The fair value of Stock Options is estimated on the date of grant using a binomial lattice model.
Significant assumptions used in the Company s binomial lattice model, which are further described below, include: expected volatility of the price of Shares; risk-free rate of return; expected dividend yield on Shares; exercise multiple; and
the post-vesting termination rate.      Expected volatility is based upon an analysis of historical prices of
Shares and call options on Shares traded on the open market. The Company uses a weighted-average of the implied volatility for publicly-traded call options with the longest remaining maturity nearest to the money as of each valuation date and the
historical volatility, calculated using monthly closing prices of Shares. The Company chose a monthly measurement interval for historical volatility as it believes this better depicts the nature of employee option exercise decisions being based on
longer-term trends in the price of the underlying Shares rather than on daily price movements.      The binomial
lattice model used by the Company incorporates different risk-free rates based on the imputed forward rates for U.S. Treasury Strips for each year over the contractual term of the option. The table below presents the full range of rates that
were used for options granted during the respective periods.      Dividend yield is determined based on historical
dividend distributions compared to the price of the underlying Shares as of the valuation date and held constant over the life of the Stock Option.      The binomial lattice model used by the Company incorporates the contractual term of the Stock Options and then factors in expected exercise behavior and a post-vesting termination rate, or the rate at
which vested options are exercised or expire prematurely due to termination of employment, to derive an expected life. Exercise behavior in the binomial lattice model used by the Company is expressed using an exercise multiple, which reflects the
ratio of exercise price to the strike price of Stock Options granted at which holders of the Stock Options are expected to exercise. The exercise multiple is derived from actual historical exercise activity. The post-vesting termination rate is
determined from actual historical exercise experience and expiration activity under the Incentive Plans.   
         335

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The following table presents the weighted average assumptions, with the
exception of risk-free rate, which is expressed as a range, used to determine the fair value of Stock Options issued:       

The following table presents a summary of Stock Option exercise activity:   

Performance Shares     
  Performance Shares are units that, if they vest, are multiplied by a performance factor to produce a number of final
Performance Shares which are payable in Shares. Performance Shares are accounted for as equity awards, but are not credited with dividend-equivalents for actual dividends paid on Shares during the performance period. Accordingly, the estimated fair
value of Performance Shares is based upon the closing price of a Share on the date of grant, reduced by the present value of estimated dividends to be paid on that stock during the performance period.   
  Performance Share awards normally vest in their entirety at the end of the three-year performance period. Vesting is
subject to continued service, except for employees who are retirement eligible and in certain other limited circumstances. Vested Performance Shares are multiplied by a performance factor of 0.0 to 2.0 based on MetLife, Inc. s adjusted income,
total shareholder return, and performance in change in annual net operating earnings and total shareholder return compared to the performance of its competitors, each measured with respect to the applicable three-year performance period or portions
thereof. The performance factor was 1.13 for the January 1, 2009   December 31, 2011 performance period.   
    Restricted Stock Units        Restricted Stock Units are units that, if they vest, are payable in an equal number of Shares. Restricted Stock Units are accounted for as equity awards, but are not credited with dividend-equivalents for
actual dividends paid on Shares during the performance period. Accordingly, the estimated fair value of Restricted Stock Units is based upon the closing price of Shares on the date of grant, reduced by the present value of estimated dividends to be
paid on that stock during the performance period.   
         336

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The vast majority of Restricted Stock Units normally vest in their
entirety on the third anniversary of their grant date. Other Restricted Stock Units normally vest in their entirety on the fifth anniversary of their grant date. Vesting is subject to continued service, except for employees who are retirement
eligible and in certain other limited circumstances.      The following table presents a summary of Performance
Share and Restricted Stock Unit activity for the year ended December 31, 2012:       

(1)  
    Includes both Shares paid and Shares deferred for later payment.      
   Performance Share amounts above represent aggregate initial target awards and do not reflect potential
increases or decreases resulting from the performance factor determined after the end of the respective performance periods. At December 31, 2012, the three year performance period for the 2010 Performance Share grants was completed, but the
performance factor had not yet been calculated. Included in the immediately preceding table are 1,347,025 outstanding Performance Shares to which the 2010-2012 performance factor will be applied. The factor will be determined in the second quarter
of 2013.         Liability Awards (Phantom Stock-Based Awards)      
  Certain MetLife international subsidiaries have a liability for Phantom Stock-Based Awards in the form of Unit Options,
Restricted Units, and Performance Units. These Share-based cash settled awards are recorded as liabilities until payout is made. Unlike Share-settled awards, which have a fixed grant-date fair value, the fair value of unsettled or unvested liability
awards is remeasured at the end of each reporting period based on the change in fair value of one Share. The liability and corresponding expense are adjusted accordingly until the award is settled.   
    Unit Options        Each Unit Option is the contingent right of the holders to receive a cash payment equal to the closing price of a Share on the surrender date, less the closing price on the grant date, if the difference
is greater than zero. The vast majority of Unit Options have become or will become eligible for surrender at a rate of one-third of each award on each of the first three anniversaries of the grant date. Other Unit Options have become or will become
eligible for surrender on the third anniversary of the grant date. Vesting is subject to continued service, except for employees who are retirement eligible and in certain other limited circumstances.   
         337

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Restricted Units     
  Restricted Units are units that, if they vest, are payable in cash equal to the closing price of a Share on the last day
of the restriction period. The vast majority of Restricted Units normally vest in their entirety on the third anniversary of their grant date. Vesting is subject to continued service, except for employees who are retirement eligible and in certain
other limited circumstances.        Performance Units     
  Performance Units are units that, if they vest, are multiplied by a performance factor to produce a number of final
Performance Units which are payable in cash equal to the closing price of a Share on a date following the last day of the three-year performance period. Performance Units are accounted for as liability awards, but are not credited with
dividend-equivalents for actual dividends paid on Shares during the performance period. Accordingly, the estimated fair value of Performance Units is based upon the closing price of a Share on the date of grant, reduced by the present value of
estimated dividends to be paid on that stock during the performance period.      See    Performance
Shares  for a discussion of the Performance Shares vesting period and award calculation, which is also used for Performance Units.      The following table presents a summary of Liability Award activity for the year ended December 31, 2012:       

Statutory Equity and Income     
  Each of MetLife, Inc. s U.S. insurance company s state of domicile imposes risk-based capital ( RBC )
requirements that were developed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ). American Life does not write business in Delaware or any other domestic state and, as such, is exempt from RBC requirements by Delaware law.
Regulatory compliance is determined by a ratio of a company s total adjusted capital, calculated in the manner prescribed by the NAIC ( TAC ) to its authorized control level RBC, calculated in the manner prescribed by the NAIC
( ACL RBC ). Companies below specific trigger points or ratios are classified within certain levels, each of which requires specified corrective action. The minimum level of TAC before corrective action commences is twice ACL RBC
( Company Action RBC ). While not required by or filed with insurance regulators, the Company also calculates an internally defined combined RBC ratio ( Combined RBC Ratio ), which is determined by dividing the sum of TAC for
MetLife, Inc. s principal U.S. insurance subsidiaries, excluding American Life, by the sum of Company Action RBC for such subsidiaries. The Company s Combined RBC Ratio was in excess of 400% for all periods presented. In addition, all
non-exempted U.S. insurance subsidiaries individually exceeded Company Action RBC for all periods presented.   
         338

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   MetLife, Inc. s foreign operations are regulated by applicable
authorities of the countries in which each entity operates and are subject to minimum capital and solvency requirements in those countries before corrective action commences. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the adjusted capital of American
Life s insurance subsidiary in Japan, the Company s largest foreign operation, was in excess of four times the 200% solvency margin ratio that would require corrective action. Excluding Japan, the aggregate required capital and surplus of
the Company s other foreign insurance operations was $2.3 billion and the aggregate actual regulatory capital and surplus of such operations was $7.8 billion as of the date of the most recent required capital adequacy calculation for each
jurisdiction. Each of those other foreign insurance operations exceeded minimum capital and solvency requirements of their respective countries for all periods presented.   
  MetLife, Inc. s insurance subsidiaries prepare statutory-basis financial statements in accordance with statutory
accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the insurance department of the state of domicile or applicable foreign jurisdiction. The NAIC has adopted the Codification of Statutory Accounting Principles ( Statutory Codification ).
Statutory Codification is intended to standardize regulatory accounting and reporting to state insurance departments. However, statutory accounting principles continue to be established by individual state laws and permitted practices. Modifications
by the various state insurance departments may impact the effect of Statutory Codification on the statutory capital and surplus of MetLife, Inc. s U.S. insurance subsidiaries.   
  Statutory accounting principles differ from GAAP primarily by charging policy acquisition costs to expense as incurred,
establishing future policy benefit liabilities using different actuarial assumptions, reporting surplus notes as surplus instead of debt and valuing securities on a different basis.   
  In addition, certain assets are not admitted under statutory accounting principles and are charged directly to surplus.
The most significant assets not admitted by the Company are net deferred income tax assets resulting from temporary differences between statutory accounting principles basis and tax basis not expected to reverse and become recoverable within three
years. Further, statutory accounting principles do not give recognition to purchase accounting adjustments.   
  MetLife, Inc. s U.S. insurance subsidiaries have no material state prescribed accounting practices, except for
American Life. American Life calculates its policyholder reserves on insurance written in each foreign jurisdiction in accordance with the reserve standards required by such jurisdiction. American Life is not required to quantify the impact to its
statutory capital and surplus as a result of applying this prescribed practice to its branch operations. Additionally, American Life s insurance subsidiaries are valued based on each respective subsidiary s underlying local statutory
equity, adjusted in a manner consistent with the reporting prescribed for its branch operations, which resulted in higher statutory capital and surplus of $413 million and $597 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011,
respectively.   
         339

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The tables below present amounts from MetLife, Inc. s primary
insurance subsidiaries, which are derived from the statutory basis financial statements as filed with the insurance regulators.      Statutory net income (loss) was as follows:       

Statutory capital and surplus was as follows at:   

As derived from the most recent annual statutory basis financial statements filed with insurance
regulators, the aggregate statutory net income and aggregate statutory capital and surplus of the Company s foreign insurance subsidiaries not owned directly or indirectly by the Company s primary insurance subsidiaries set forth in the
table above was $679 million and $4.7 billion, respectively.      The Company s domestic captive life
reinsurance subsidiaries, which reinsure risks including the closed block, level premium term life and universal life with secondary guarantees assumed from other Metlife subsidiaries, have no material state prescribed accounting practices, except
for MetLife Reinsurance Company of Vermont ( MRV ). MRV, with the explicit permission of the Commissioner of Insurance of the State of Vermont, has included, as admitted assets, the value of letters of credit serving as collateral for
reinsurance credit taken by various affiliated cedants, in connection with reinsurance agreements entered into between MRV and the various affiliated cedants, which resulted in higher statutory capital and surplus of $5.1 billion and $4.5 billion
for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. MRV s RBC would have triggered a regulatory event without the use of the state prescribed practice. The statutory net income (loss) of MetLife, Inc. s domestic captive life
reinsurance subsidiaries was ($154) million, ($130) million and ($621) million for the years ended December 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and the statutory capital and surplus, including the aforementioned prescribed practice, was $4.2 billion
and $3.4 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   
         340

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Dividend Restrictions     
     Insurance Operations         The table below sets forth the dividends permitted to be paid by the respective insurance subsidiary without insurance regulatory approval and the respective dividends paid:   

(1)  
    Reflects dividend amounts that may be paid during 2013 without prior regulatory approval. However, because dividend tests may be based on dividends
previously paid over rolling 12-month periods, if paid before a specified date during 2013, some or all of such dividends may require regulatory approval.      

(2)  
    Reflects all amounts paid, including those requiring regulatory approval.      

(3)  
    Reflects dividend amounts that could have been paid during the relevant year without prior regulatory approval.      

(5)  
    During May 2012, American Life received regulatory approval to pay an extraordinary dividend for an amount up to the funds remitted in connection
with the restructuring of American Life s business in Japan. Subsequently, $1.5 billion was remitted to American Life. See Note 19. Of this approved amount, $1.3 billion was paid to MetLife, Inc. as an extraordinary dividend.

(6)  
    During June 2012, MICC distributed shares of an affiliate to its stockholders as an in-kind extraordinary dividend of $202 million as
calculated on a statutory basis. Regulatory approval for this extraordinary dividend was obtained due to the timing of payment. During December 2012, MICC paid a dividend to its stockholders in the amount of $504 million, which represented its
ordinary dividend capacity at year-end 2012. Due to the June 2012 in-kind dividend, a portion of this was extraordinary and regulatory approval was obtained.      
   Under New York State Insurance Law, MLIC is permitted, without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to
pay stockholder dividends to MetLife, Inc. as long as the aggregate amount of all such dividends in any calendar year does not exceed the lesser of: (i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as of the end of the immediately preceding calendar
year or (ii) its statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year (excluding realized capital gains). MLIC will be permitted to pay a dividend to MetLife, Inc. in excess of the lesser of such two amounts only if it
files notice of its intention to declare such a dividend and the amount thereof with the New York Superintendent of Insurance (the  Superintendent ) and the Superintendent either approves
  
         341

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
the distribution of the dividend or does not disapprove the dividend within 30 days of its filing. Under New York State Insurance Law, the Superintendent has broad discretion in determining
whether the financial condition of a stock life insurance company would support the payment of such dividends to its stockholders.      Under Delaware State Insurance Law, each of American Life, DelAm and Metropolitan Tower Life Insurance Company ( MTL ) is permitted, without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay a
stockholder dividend to MetLife, Inc. as long as the amount of the dividend, when aggregated with all other dividends in the preceding 12 months, does not exceed the greater of: (i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as of the end of the
immediately preceding calendar year; or (ii) its net statutory gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year (excluding realized capital gains). Each of American Life, DelAm and MTL will be permitted to pay a dividend to
MetLife, Inc. in excess of the greater of such two amounts only if it files notice of the declaration of such a dividend and the amount thereof with the Delaware Commissioner of Insurance (the  Delaware Commissioner ) and the Delaware
Commissioner either approves the distribution of the dividend or does not disapprove the distribution within 30 days of its filing. In addition, any dividend that exceeds earned surplus (defined as  unassigned funds (surplus) ) as of the
immediately preceding calendar year requires insurance regulatory approval. Under Delaware State Insurance Law, the Delaware Commissioner has broad discretion in determining whether the financial condition of a stock life insurance company would
support the payment of such dividends to its stockholders.      Under Connecticut State Insurance Law, MICC is
permitted, without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay stockholder dividends to its stockholders as long as the amount of such dividends, when aggregated with all other dividends in the preceding 12 months, does not exceed the greater of:
(i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as of the end of the immediately preceding calendar year; or (ii) its statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year. MICC will be permitted to pay a dividend in
excess of the greater of such two amounts only if it files notice of its declaration of such a dividend and the amount thereof with the Connecticut Commissioner of Insurance (the  Connecticut Commissioner ) and the Connecticut Commissioner
either approves the distribution of the dividend or does not disapprove the payment within 30 days after notice. In addition, any dividend that exceeds earned surplus (defined as  unassigned funds (surplus) , reduced by 25% of unrealized
appreciation in value or revaluation of assets or unrealized profits on investments) as of the last filed annual statutory statement requires insurance regulatory approval. Under Connecticut State Insurance Law, the Connecticut Commissioner has
broad discretion in determining whether the financial condition of a stock life insurance company would support the payment of such dividends to its stockholders.   
  Under the Rhode Island Insurance Code, Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company ( MPC ) is
permitted, without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay a stockholder dividend to MetLife, Inc. as long as the aggregate amount of all such dividends in any 12 month period does not exceed the lesser of: (i) 10% of its surplus to
policyholders as of the end of the immediately preceding calendar year; or (ii) net income, not including realized capital gains, for the immediately preceding calendar year, not including pro rata distributions of MPC s own securities. In
determining whether a dividend is extraordinary, MPC may include carry forward net income from the previous two calendar years, excluding realized capital gains less dividends paid in the second and immediately preceding calendar years. MPC will be
permitted to pay a dividend to MetLife, Inc. in excess of the lesser of such two amounts only if it files notice of its intention to declare such a dividend and the amount thereof with the Rhode Island Commissioner of Insurance (the  Rhode
Island Commissioner ) and the Rhode Island Commissioner either approves the distribution of the dividend or does not disapprove the distribution within 30 days of its filing. Under the Rhode Island Insurance Code, the Rhode Island Commissioner
has broad discretion in determining whether the financial condition of a stock property and casualty insurance company would support the payment of such dividends to its stockholders.   
         342

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Under Missouri State Insurance Law, MetLife Investors Insurance Company
( MLIIC ) is permitted, without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay a stockholder dividend to MetLife, Inc. as long as the amount of the dividend when aggregated with all other dividends in the preceding 12 months does not exceed
the greater of: (i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as of the end of the immediately preceding calendar year; or (ii) its statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year (excluding net realized capital
gains). MLIIC will be permitted to pay a cash dividend to its parent in excess of the greater of such two amounts only if it files notice of the declaration of such a dividend and the amount thereof with the Missouri Director of Insurance (the
 Missouri Director ) and the Missouri Director either approves the distribution of the dividend or does not disapprove the distribution within 30 days of its filing. In addition, any dividend that exceeds earned surplus (defined by the
Company as  unassigned funds (surplus) ) as of the last filed annual statutory statement requires insurance regulatory approval. Under Missouri State Insurance Law, the Missouri Director has broad discretion in determining whether the
financial condition of a stock life insurance company would support the payment of such dividends to its stockholders.   
     MetLife, Inc.         In addition to regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by its subsidiaries to MetLife, Inc., the payment of dividends by MetLife, Inc. to its stockholders is also subject to restrictions. The
declaration and payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors, and will depend on its financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by
the board. In addition, the payment of dividends on MetLife, Inc. s common stock, and MetLife, Inc. s ability to repurchase its common stock, may be subject to restrictions arising out of regulation by the Federal Reserve if, in the
future, MetLife, Inc. is designated by the Financial Stability Oversight Council ( FSOC ) as a non-bank systemically important financial institution ( non-bank SIFI ), as described below. They are also subject to restrictions
under the terms of MetLife, Inc. s preferred stock, junior subordinated debentures and trust securities in situations where MetLife, Inc. may be experiencing financial stress, as described below. For purposes of this discussion,  junior
subordinated debentures  are deemed to include MetLife, Inc. s Fixed-to-Floating Rate Exchangeable Surplus Trust Securities, which are exchangeable at the option of MetLife, Inc., or in the future upon the occurrence of certain events, for
junior subordinated debentures, and which contain terms with the same substantive effects described in this discussion as the terms in MetLife s junior subordinated debentures.   
   Regulatory Restrictions.  As discussed in Note 3, MetLife, Inc. has de-registered as a bank holding company. As a
result, MetLife, Inc. is no longer regulated as a bank holding company or subject to enhanced supervision and prudential standards as a bank holding company with assets of $50 billion or more. However, if, in the future, MetLife, Inc. is designated
by the FSOC as a non-bank SIFI, it could once again be subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve and enhanced supervision and prudential standards. While the Federal Reserve has proposed a set of prudential standards that would apply to non-bank
SIFIs, as well as bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more, it has not yet adopted final rules for most of these standards. The Federal Reserve has stated its intention to take a tailored approach to applying the prudential
standards to non-bank SIFIs, but has not provided any details on how it intends to do so. If MetLife, Inc. were designated as a non-bank SIFI by the FSOC, the associated enhanced prudential standards imposed could adversely affect MetLife,
Inc. s ability to pay dividends to its stockholders, as well as repurchase its common stock. In addition, if MetLife, Inc. is designated as a global systemically important insurer ( G-SII ) by the Financial Stability Board, it would
be subject to policy measures which could include higher capital requirements and more intensive regulation. These policy measures would need to be implemented by regulation or legislation in relevant jurisdictions but could limit MetLife,
Inc. s ability to pay dividends to its stockholders and repurchase its common stock.        Dividend
Stopper  Provisions in the Preferred Stock and Junior Subordinated Debentures . Certain terms of MetLife, Inc. s preferred stock and junior subordinated debentures (sometimes referred to as  dividend stoppers ) may prevent it
from repurchasing its common or preferred stock or paying dividends on its common   
         343

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
or preferred stock in certain circumstances. Under the preferred stock, if, for any reason, including due to a determination by the MetLife, Inc. Board of Directors, MetLife, Inc. has not paid
the full dividends on its preferred stock for a dividend period (i.e., the period from and including a preferred stock dividend payment date to, but excluding the next preferred stock dividend payment date), it may not repurchase or pay dividends on
its common stock for that period. Under the junior subordinated debentures, if MetLife, Inc. has not paid in full the accrued interest on its junior subordinated debentures through the most recent interest payment date, it may not repurchase or pay
dividends on its common stock or other capital stock (including the preferred stock), subject to certain exceptions. The junior subordinated debentures provide that MetLife may, at its option and provided that certain conditions are met, defer
payment of interest without giving rise to an event of default for periods of up to 10 years (although after five years MetLife, Inc. would be obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to sell equity securities to raise proceeds to pay the
interest), with no limitation on the number of deferral periods that MetLife, Inc. may begin, so long as all accrued and unpaid interest is paid with respect to prior deferral periods. If MetLife, Inc. were to elect to defer payments of interest,
the  dividend stopper  provisions in the junior subordinated debentures would thus prevent MetLife, Inc. from repurchasing or paying dividends on its common stock or other capital stock (including the preferred stock) during the period of
deferral, subject to exceptions.      In addition, the preferred stock and the junior subordinated debentures
contain provisions that would automatically suspend the payment of preferred stock dividends and junior subordinated debenture interest payments if MetLife, Inc. fails to meet certain risk based capital ratio, net income and stockholders 
equity tests at specified times. In such cases, however, MetLife would be permitted to make the payments if it were able to utilize a prescribed alternative payment mechanism. As a result of the suspension of these payments, the  dividend
stopper  provisions would come into effect.      MetLife, Inc. is a party to certain replacement capital
covenants which limit its ability to eliminate these restrictions through the repayment, redemption or purchase of preferred stock or junior subordinated debentures by requiring MetLife, subject to certain limitations, to receive cash proceeds
during a specified period from the sale of specified replacement securities prior to any such repayment, redemption or purchase. See    Preferred Stock  for a description of such covenants in effect with respect to the
preferred stock, and Note 14 for a description of such covenants in effect with respect to junior subordinated debentures.   
         344

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)     
  The following table sets forth the balance and changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) including
reclassification adjustments required for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 in other comprehensive income (loss) that are included as part of net income for the current year that have been reported as a part of other
comprehensive income (loss) in the current or prior year:       

345

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

      17.  Other Expenses    
   Information on other expenses was as follows:   

Capitalization of DAC and Amortization of DAC and VOBA     
  See Note 5 for additional information on DAC and VOBA including impacts of capitalization and amortization. See also
Note 7 for a description of the DAC amortization impact associated with the closed block.        Interest Expense on Debt
and Debt Issuance Costs        See Notes 12, 13, 14 and 15 for attribution of interest expense by debt
issuance. Interest expense on debt and debt issuance costs includes interest expense related to CSEs. See Note 8.   
    Restructuring Charges        The Company commenced in 2012 an enterprise-wide strategic initiative. This global strategy focuses on leveraging the Company s scale to improve the value it provides to customers and shareholders in
order to reduce costs, enhance revenues, achieve efficiencies and reinvest in its technology, platforms and functionality to improve its current operations and develop new capabilities.   
         346

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   These restructuring charges are included in other expenses. As the
expenses relate to an enterprise-wide initiative, they are reported in Corporate   Other. Estimated restructuring costs may change as management continues to execute this enterprise-wide strategic initiative. Such restructuring charges,
primarily related to severance, were as follows:       

Management anticipates further restructuring charges including severance, lease and asset impairments,
through the year ending December 31, 2014. However, such restructuring plans were not sufficiently developed to enable management to make an estimate of such restructuring charges at December 31, 2012.   
    Costs Related to ALICO Acquisition           Integration-Related Expenses      
  Integration-related costs were $305 million, $362 million and $176 million for the years ended December 31,
2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Integration-related costs represent costs directly related to integrating ALICO, including expenses for consulting, rebranding and the integration of information systems. Such costs have been expensed as incurred
and, as the integration of ALICO is an enterprise-wide initiative, these expenses are reported in Corporate   Other.   
     Restructuring Charges         As part of the integration of ALICO s operations, management initiated restructuring plans focused on increasing productivity and improving the efficiency of the Company s operations. The
restructuring program has been finalized and the remaining payments associated with the restructuring program are expected to be completed by March 31, 2013.   
         347

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Restructuring charges associated with restructuring plans related to the
ALICO Acquisition are included in other expenses and are reported in Corporate   Other. Such restructuring charges included:       

18.  Employee Benefit Plans    
     Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans     
   The Subsidiaries sponsor and/or administer various
U.S. qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement employee benefit plans covering employees and sales representatives who meet specified eligibility requirements. U.S. pension benefits are provided utilizing
either a traditional formula or cash balance formula. The traditional formula provides benefits that are primarily based upon years of credited service and either final average or career average earnings. The cash balance formula utilizes
hypothetical or notional accounts which credit participants with benefits equal to a percentage of eligible pay, as well as earnings credits, determined annually based upon the average annual rate of interest on 30-year U.S. Treasury securities, for
each account balance. At December 31, 2012, the majority of active participants were accruing benefits under the cash balance formula; however, 90% of the Subsidiaries  obligations result from benefits calculated with the traditional
formula. The U.S. non-qualified pension plans provide supplemental benefits in excess of limits applicable to a qualified plan. The non-U.S. pension plans generally provide benefits based upon either years of credited service and earnings
preceding-retirement or points earned on job grades and other factors in years of service.      The Subsidiaries
also provide certain postemployment benefits and certain postretirement medical and life insurance benefits for retired employees. Employees of the Subsidiaries who were hired prior to 2003 (or, in certain cases, rehired during or after 2003) and
meet age and service criteria while working for one of the Subsidiaries may become eligible for these other postretirement benefits, at various levels, in accordance with the applicable plans. Virtually all retirees, or their beneficiaries,
contribute a portion of the total costs of postretirement medical benefits. Employees hired after 2003 are not eligible for any employer subsidy for postretirement medical benefits.   

         348

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
      Obligations and Funded Status      

349

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The aggregate pension accumulated benefit obligation and aggregate fair
value of plan assets for pension benefit plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets was as follows:       

Information for pension and other postretirement benefit plans with a projected benefit obligation in
excess of plan assets were as follows:       

Net Periodic Benefit Costs      
   Net periodic benefit cost is determined using
management estimates and actuarial assumptions to derive service cost, interest cost, and expected return on plan assets for a particular year. Net periodic benefit cost also includes the applicable amortization of net actuarial gains (losses) and
amortization of any prior service cost (credit).      The obligations and expenses associated with these plans
require an extensive use of assumptions such as the discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, rate of future compensation increases, healthcare cost trend rates, as well as assumptions regarding participant demographics such as rate and
age of retirements, withdrawal rates and mortality. Management, in consultation with its external consulting actuarial firms, determines these assumptions based upon a variety of factors such as historical performance of the plan and its assets,
currently available market and industry data and expected benefit payout streams. The assumptions used may differ materially from actual results due to, among other factors, changing market and economic conditions and changes in participant
demographics. These differences may have a significant effect on the Company s consolidated financial statements and liquidity.      Net periodic pension costs and net periodic other postretirement benefit plan costs are comprised of the following:       

Service Costs   Service costs are the increase in the projected (expected) PBO resulting from benefits payable to employees of the
Subsidiaries on service rendered during the current year.          

Interest Costs   Interest costs are the time value adjustment on the projected (expected) PBO at the end of each year.

Settlement and Curtailment Costs   The aggregate amount of net gains (losses) recognized in net periodic benefit costs due to settlements
and curtailments. Settlements result from actions that relieve/eliminate the plan s responsibility for benefit obligations or risks associated with the obligations or      
         350

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

assets used for the settlement. Curtailments result from an event that significantly reduces/eliminates plan participants  expected years of future services or benefit accruals.

Expected Return on Plan Assets   Expected return on plan assets is the assumed return earned by the accumulated pension and other
postretirement fund assets in a particular year.          

Amortization of Net Actuarial Gains (Losses)   Actuarial gains and losses result from differences between the actual experience and the
expected experience on pension and other postretirement plan assets or projected (expected) PBO during a particular period. These gains and losses are accumulated and, to the extent they exceed 10% of the greater of the PBO or the fair value of plan
assets, the excess is amortized into pension and other postretirement benefit costs over the expected service years of the employees.          

Amortization of Prior Service Costs (Credit)   These costs relate to the recognition of increases or decreases in pension and other
postretirement benefit obligation due to amendments in plans or initiation of new plans. These increases or decreases in obligation are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at the time of the amendment. These costs are then
amortized to pension and other postretirement benefit costs over the expected service years of the employees affected by the change.      
   The components of net periodic benefit costs and other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations
recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows:       

351

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   For the year ended December 31, 2012, included within other
comprehensive income (loss) were other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations associated with pension benefits of $543 million for the U.S. plans and $17 million for the non-U.S. plans and other postretirement benefits of $281 million
for the U.S. plans and $1 million for the non-U.S. plans for an aggregate reduction in other comprehensive income (loss) of $842 million before income tax and $546 million, net of income tax.   
  The estimated net actuarial (gains) losses and prior service costs (credit) for the U.S. pension plans and the U.S.
defined benefit other postretirement benefit plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic benefit costs over the next year are $225 million and $6 million, and $73 million and ($75)
million, respectively.      The Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 created various subsidies for all U.S. sponsors
of retiree drug programs. Two common ways of providing subsidies were the Retiree Drug Subsidy ( RDS ) and Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plans ( PDP ). From 2006 through 2010, the Company applied for and received the RDS
each year. The RDS program provides the subsidy through cash payments made by Medicare to the Company, resulting in smaller net claims paid by the Company. A summary of the reduction to the APBO and the related reduction to the components of net
periodic other postretirement benefits plan costs resulting from receipt of the RDS is presented below. As of January 1, 2011, as a result of changes made under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, the Company no longer
applies for the RDS. Instead it has joined PDP and will indirectly receive Medicare subsidies in the form of smaller gross benefit payments for prescription drug coverage.   

December 31, 2010       

(In millions)   

Cumulative reduction in other postretirement benefits obligations:   

Balance at January 1,   
      
  $  
  247  

Service costs   

3  

Interest costs   

16  

Net actuarial (gains) losses   

(255  
  )    
 
    Expected prescription drug subsidy   

(11  
  )    

Balance at December 31,   
      
  $  

Year
Ended         December 31, 2010       

(In millions)   

Reduction in net periodic other postretirement benefit costs:   

Service costs   
      
  $  
  3  

Interest costs   

16  

Amortization of net actuarial (gains) losses   

10  

Total reduction in net periodic benefit costs   
      
  $  
  29  

The Company did not receive subsidies for the year ended December 31, 2012. The Company received
subsidies of $3 million and $8 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
         352

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
      Assumptions      
  Assumptions used in determining benefit obligations were as follows:   

(1)  
    Reflects those assumptions that were most appropriate for the local economic environments of each of the Subsidiaries providing such benefits.
     
   Assumptions used in determining net periodic benefit costs were as follows:   

(1)  
    Reflects those assumptions that were most appropriate for the local economic environments of each of the Subsidiaries providing such benefits.
     
   The weighted average discount rate for the U.S. plans is determined annually based on the yield,
measured on a yield to worst basis, of a hypothetical portfolio constructed of high quality debt instruments available on the valuation date, which would provide the necessary future cash flows to pay the aggregate projected benefit obligation when
due.   
         353

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The weighted average discount rate for non-U.S. pension plans is based
on the duration of liabilities on a country by country basis. The rate was selected by reference to high quality corporate bonds in developed markets or local government bonds where markets were less robust or nonexistent.   
  The weighted average expected rate of return on plan assets for the U.S. plans is based on anticipated performance of the
various asset sectors in which the plans invest, weighted by target allocation percentages. Anticipated future performance is based on long-term historical returns of the plan assets by sector, adjusted for the Subsidiaries  long-term
expectations on the performance of the markets. While the precise expected rate of return derived using this approach will fluctuate from year to year, the policy of most of the Subsidiaries  is to hold this long-term assumption constant as
long as it remains within reasonable tolerance from the derived rate.      The weighted average expected long-term
rate of return for the non-U.S. pension plans is an aggregation of each country s expected rate of return within each asset class. For each country, the rate of return with respect to each asset class was developed based on a building block
approach that considers historical returns, current market conditions, asset volatility and the expectations for future market returns. While the assessment of the expected rate of return is long-term and not expected to change annually, significant
changes in investment strategy or economic conditions may warrant such a change. The expected rate of return within each asset class, together with any contributions made, are expected to maintain the plans  ability to meet all required benefit
obligations.      The weighted average expected rate of return on plan assets for use in that plan s
valuation in 2013 is currently anticipated to be 6.25% for U.S. pension benefits and 5.75% for U.S. other postretirement benefits. The weighted average expected rate of return on plan assets for use in that plan s valuation in 2013 is currently
anticipated to be 2.94% for non-U.S. pension benefits and 5.75% for non-U.S. other postretirement benefits.   
  The assumed healthcare costs trend rates used in measuring the APBO and net periodic benefit costs were as follows:

Assumed healthcare costs trend rates may have a significant effect on the amounts reported for
healthcare plans. A 1% change in assumed healthcare costs trend rates would have the following effects as of December 31, 2012:       

U.S. Plans   

Non-U.S. Plans   

One Percent Increase   

One Percent Decrease   

One Percent Increase   

One Percent Decrease   

(In millions)   

Effect on total of service and interest costs components   
     
  $  
  17  

$  
  (14)  

$  

$  

Effect of accumulated postretirement benefit obligations   
     
  $  
  308  

$  
  (251)  

$  
  1  

$  
  (1)  

354

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
      Plan Assets      
  The pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets are categorized into a three-level fair value hierarchy, as
defined in Note 10, based upon the significant input with the lowest level in its valuation. The following summarizes the types of assets included within the three-level fair value hierarchy presented below.   

Level 1   
     
    This category includes investments in fixed maturity securities, equity securities, derivative assets, and short-term investments which have unadjusted quoted
market prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.    

Level 2   
     
    This category includes certain separate accounts that are primarily invested in liquid and readily marketable securities. The estimated fair value of such
separate account is based upon reported NAV provided by fund managers and this value represents the amount at which transfers into and out of the respective separate account are effected. These separate accounts provide reasonable levels of price
transparency and can be corroborated through observable market data.    

Certain separate accounts are invested in investment partnerships designated as hedge funds. The values for these separate accounts is determined monthly
based on the NAV of the underlying hedge fund investment. Additionally, such hedge funds generally contain lock out or other waiting period provisions for redemption requests to be filled. While the reporting and redemption restrictions may limit
the frequency of trading activity in separate accounts invested in hedge funds, the reported NAV, and thus the referenced value of the separate account, provides a reasonable level of price transparency that can be corroborated through observable
market data.    

Directly held investments are primarily invested in U.S. and foreign government and corporate securities.    

Level 3   
     
    This category includes separate accounts that are invested in fixed maturity securities, equity securities, derivative assets, and other investments that
provide little or no price transparency due to the infrequency with which the underlying assets trade and generally require additional time to liquidate in an orderly manner. Accordingly, the values for separate accounts invested in these
alternative asset classes are based on inputs that cannot be readily derived from or corroborated by observable market data.    
 
     U.S. Plans     
  The U.S. Subsidiaries provide employees with benefits under various Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
( ERISA ) benefit plans. These include qualified pension plans, postretirement medical plans and certain retiree life insurance coverage. The assets of the U.S. Subsidiaries  qualified pension plans are held in insurance group annuity
contracts, and the vast majority of the assets of the postretirement medical plan and backing the retiree life coverage are held in insurance contracts. All of these contracts are issued by Company insurance affiliates, and the assets under the
contracts are held in insurance separate accounts that have been established by the Company. The underlying assets of the separate accounts are principally comprised of cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, fixed maturity and equity
securities, derivatives, real estate, private equity investments and hedge fund investments.      The insurance
contract provider engages investment management firms ( Managers ) to serve as sub-advisors for the separate accounts based on the specific investment needs and requests identified by the plan fiduciary. These Managers have portfolio
management discretion over the purchasing and selling of securities and other   
         355

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
investment assets pursuant to the respective investment management agreements and guidelines established for each insurance separate account. The assets of the qualified pension plans and
postretirement medical plans (the  Invested Plans ) are well diversified across multiple asset categories and across a number of different Managers, with the intent of minimizing risk concentrations within any given asset category or with
any given Manager.      The Invested Plans, other than those held in participant directed investment accounts, are
managed in accordance with investment policies consistent with the longer-term nature of related benefit obligations and within prudent risk parameters. Specifically, investment policies are oriented toward (i) maximizing the Invested
Plan s funded status; (ii) minimizing the volatility of the Invested Plan s funded status; (iii) generating asset returns that exceed liability increases; and (iv) targeting rates of return in excess of a custom benchmark
and industry standards over appropriate reference time periods. These goals are expected to be met through identifying appropriate and diversified asset classes and allocations, ensuring adequate liquidity to pay benefits and expenses when due and
controlling the costs of administering and managing the Invested Plan s investments. Independent investment consultants are periodically used to evaluate the investment risk of Invested Plan s assets relative to liabilities, analyze the
economic and portfolio impact of various asset allocations and management strategies and to recommend asset allocations.      Derivative contracts may be used to reduce investment risk, to manage duration and to replicate the risk/return profile of an asset or asset class. Derivatives may not be used to leverage a portfolio in
any manner, such as to magnify exposure to an asset, asset class, interest rates or any other financial variable. Derivatives are also prohibited for use in creating exposures to securities, currencies, indices or any other financial variable that
are otherwise restricted.      The table below summarizes the actual weighted average allocation of the fair value
of total plan assets by asset class at December 31 for the years indicated and the approved target allocation by major asset class at December 31, 2012 for the Invested Plans:   

(1)  
    Fixed maturity securities include ABS, collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate, federal agency, foreign bonds, mortgage-backed securities,
municipals, preferred stocks and U.S. government bonds. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified from alternative securities into fixed maturity securities to conform to the current year presentation.      

(2)  
    Equity securities primarily include common stock of U.S. companies.      

(3)  
    Alternative securities primarily include derivative assets, money market securities, short-term investments, and other investments. Postretirement
life s target and actual allocation of plan assets are all in short-term investments.      

         356

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The pension and postretirement plan assets measured at estimated fair
value on a recurring basis were determined as described in    Plan Assets.  These estimated fair values and their corresponding placement in the fair value hierarchy are summarized as follows:   

357

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)  
    Other primarily includes mortgage-backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations, and ABS. The prior year amounts have been reclassified
into fixed maturity securities to conform to the current year presentation.      

         358

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   A rollforward of all pension and other postretirement benefit plan
assets measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs was as follows:       

Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs 
(Level 3)   

Other Postretirement Benefits   

Fixed
Maturity     Securities:   

Corporate   

Municipals   

Other (1)   

Derivative     Assets   

(In millions)   

Year Ended December 31, 2012:    

Balance, January 1,   
     
  $  
                        4  

$  
                        1  

$  
                        5  

$  
                        1  

Realized gains (losses)   

(2  
  )   

2  

Unrealized gains (losses)   

2  

(2  
  )    
 
    Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements, net   

(2  
  )   

(1  
  )    
 
    Transfers into and/or out of Level 3   

Balance, December 31,   
     
  $  
  4  

$  
  1  

$  
  3  

$  

359

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3)   

Other Postretirement Benefits   

Fixed
Maturity     Securities:   

Corporate   

Municipals   

Other (1)   

Derivative     Assets   

(In millions)   

Year Ended December 31, 2011:    

Balance, January 1,   
     
  $  
                        4  

$  
                        1  

$  
                        6  

$  

Realized gains (losses)   

(1  
  )   

Unrealized gains (losses)   

1  

1  

Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements, net   

(1  
  )   

Transfers into and/or out of Level 3   

Balance, December 31,   
     
  $  
  4  

$  
  1  

$  
  5  

$  
  1  

360

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)  
    Other includes ABS and collateralized mortgage obligations.      
     Non-U.S. Plans        Pension benefits are provided utilizing either a traditional formula or cash balance formula, similar to the U.S. plans. The investment objectives are also similar, subject to local regulations.
Generally, these international pension plans invest directly in high quality equity and fixed maturity securities. The assets of the non-U.S. pension plans are comprised of short-term investments, equity and fixed maturity securities, real estate
and hedge fund investments.      The assets of the non-U.S. pension plans, other than those held in participant
directed investment accounts, are managed in accordance with investment policies consistent with the longer-term nature of related benefit obligations and within prudent risk parameters and consistent with the policies, goals and derivative
instrument risk management guidelines described above for the U.S. plans.      The table below summarizes the
actual weighted average allocation of the fair value of total plan assets by asset class at December 31 for the years indicated and the approved target allocation by major asset class at December 31, 2012 for the plans:   

(1)  
    Fixed maturity securities include foreign bonds.          

(2)  
    Equity securities primarily include common stock of non-U.S. companies.      

(3)  
    Alternative securities include derivative assets, real estate, short-term investments, and other investments.      

         361

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The pension and postretirement plan assets measured at estimated fair
value on a recurring basis were determined as described in    Plan Assets.  These estimated fair values and their corresponding placement in the fair value hierarchy are summarized as follows:   

362

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   A rollforward of all pension benefit plan assets measured at estimated
fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs was as follows:       

(1)  
    Derivative assets and real estate transfers into Level 3 are due to the ALICO Acquisition and are not related to the changes in Level 3
classification at the security level.      
      Expected Future Contributions and Benefit Payments      
  It is the Subsidiaries  practice to make contributions to the U.S. qualified pension plan to comply with minimum
funding requirements of ERISA. In accordance with such practice, no contributions are required for 2013. The Subsidiaries expect to make discretionary contributions to the qualified pension plan of $233 million in 2013. For information on
employer contributions, see    Obligations and Funded Status.       Benefit payments due under the
U.S. non-qualified pension plans are primarily funded from the Subsidiaries  general assets as they become due under the provision of the plans, therefore benefit payments equal employer contributions. The U.S. Subsidiaries expect to make
contributions of $61 million to fund the benefit payments in 2013.      U.S. and non-U.S. postretirement benefits
are either: (i) not vested under law; (ii) a non-funded obligation of the Subsidiaries; or (iii) both. Current regulations do not require funding for these benefits. The Subsidiaries use their general assets, net of participant s
contributions, to pay postretirement medical claims as they come due in lieu of utilizing any plan assets. The U.S. Subsidiaries expect to make contributions of $78 million towards benefit obligations in 2013 to pay postretirement medical
claims.      As noted previously, the Subsidiaries no longer expect to receive the RDS under the Medicare
Modernization Act of 2003 to partially offset payment of such benefits. Instead, the gross benefit payments that will be made under the PDP will already reflect subsidies.   
         363

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Gross benefit payments for the next 10 years, which reflect expected
future service where appropriate, are expected to be as follows:       

Additional Information         As previously discussed, most of the assets of the U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans are held in group annuity and life insurance contracts issued by the Subsidiaries. Total revenues
from these contracts recognized in the consolidated statements of operations were $54 million, $47 million and $46 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and included policy charges and net
investment income from investments backing the contracts and administrative fees. Total investment income (loss), including realized and unrealized gains (losses), credited to the account balances was $867 million, $885 million and
$767 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The terms of these contracts are consistent in all material respects with those the Subsidiaries offer to unaffiliated parties that are similarly situated.
       Defined Contribution Plans     
  The Subsidiaries sponsor defined contribution plans for substantially all U.S. employees under which a portion of employee
contributions are matched. The Subsidiaries contributed $96 million, $95 million and $86 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
      19.  Income Tax    
   The provision for income tax from continuing operations was as follows:   

364

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The Company s income (loss) from continuing operations before
income tax expense (benefit) from domestic and foreign operations were as follows:       

The reconciliation of the income tax provision at the U.S. statutory rate to the provision for income
tax as reported for continuing operations was as follows:       

365

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between
the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Net deferred income tax assets and liabilities consisted of the following at:       

The following table sets forth the domestic, state, and foreign net operating and capital loss
carryforwards for tax purposes at December 31, 2012.       

Tax credit carryforwards of $545 million at December 31, 2012 will expire beginning in 2017.
  
   For U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Company made an election under
Section 338 of the Code (the  Section 338 Election ) relating to the acquisition of American Life. Pursuant to such election, the historical tax basis in the acquired assets and liabilities was adjusted to the fair market value as of
the ALICO Acquisition Date resulting in a change to the related deferred income taxes.   
   See Note 3 for a discussion of branch restructuring in accordance with the Closing Agreement. As of the
ALICO Acquisition Date, the Company had established a valuation allowance of $671 million against the amount of U.S. deferred tax assets that was expected to reverse post-branch restructuring of American Life. As of November 1, 2011 the Company
finalized American Life s current and deferred income tax liabilities based upon   
         366

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
the determination of the amount of taxes resulting from the Section 338 Election and the corresponding filing of the income tax return. Accordingly, American Life s current income tax
receivable was increased by $12 million and deferred tax assets were reduced by $2 million with a corresponding net decrease to goodwill. The Company also increased the valuation allowance recorded against U.S. deferred tax assets to $720 million.
The increase in the valuation allowance of $49 million, with a corresponding increase to goodwill, was a result of changes in estimates and assumptions relating to the reversal of U.S. temporary differences prior to the completion of the anticipated
restructuring of American Life s foreign branches and filing of the income tax return. See Note 23.   
  In accordance with the Closing Agreement, during 2012, the Company completed certain aspects of its plan to transfer
foreign branch assets to various MetLife foreign subsidiaries:       

The Company transferred the business of the Japan branch to a newly formed wholly-owned subsidiary in Japan, MetLife Alico Life Insurance K. K.
( MLKK           

The Company transferred the remaining business of the U.K. branch to other wholly-owned subsidiaries; and      

The Company converted the Greek branch to a wholly-owned subsidiary incorporated in Greece.      
  These completed transactions represent over 90% of the planned restructurings based on branch net equity. Furthermore,
the Company expects to complete its restructuring for the remaining branches in 2013.      As a result of these
asset transfers and the filing of various foreign branch and U.S. income tax returns, the Company revised the estimate of the valuation allowance required for U.S. deferred tax assets relating to the ongoing restructuring of American Life s
non-U.S. branches. The net reduction in the valuation allowance was primarily due to the following factors:       

Additional U.S. deferred tax assets that more likely than not will not be realizable;      

Additional tax basis in assets as a result of the gain recognized related to the branch restructuring that more likely than not will not be
realizable; and          

A reduction in both the gross deferred tax asset and the valuation allowance related to the completion of the Company s transfer of the Japan,
U.K. and Greek branch businesses to wholly-owned subsidiaries.         The following table provides
a rollforward of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance associated with the branch restructuring:       

367

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   During 2012, after conversion of the Japan branch to a subsidiary, MLKK
recorded a deferred tax benefit along with a reduction in deferred tax liabilities for investments in the amount of $324 million.      The Company also has recorded a valuation allowance increase related to tax expense of $8 million related to certain foreign capital loss carryforwards, and decreases of $25 million related to certain
state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards, and $3 million related to certain other assets. The valuation allowance reflects management s assessment, based on available information, that it is more likely than not that the deferred
income tax asset for certain foreign net operating and capital loss carryforwards, certain state net operating loss carryforwards, certain foreign unrealized losses and certain foreign other assets will not be realized. The tax benefit will be
recognized when management believes that it is more likely than not that these deferred income tax assets are realizable. The aforementioned amounts related to capital loss carryforwards and net operating loss carryforwards impact the consolidated
statement of operations. If these losses continue to change thus increasing or decreasing deferred tax assets, the associated valuation allowance will increase or decrease accordingly. The Company does not expect future amounts to be materially
different.      The Company has not provided U.S. deferred taxes on cumulative earnings of certain
non-U.S. affiliates and associated companies that have been reinvested indefinitely. These earnings relate to ongoing operations and have been reinvested in active non-U.S. business operations. The Company does not intend to repatriate
these earnings to fund U.S. operations. Deferred taxes are provided for earnings of non-U.S. affiliates and associated companies when the Company plans to remit those earnings. At December 31, 2012, the Company had not made a
provision for U.S. taxes on approximately $2.4 billion of the excess of the amount for financial reporting over the tax basis of investments in foreign subsidiaries that are essentially permanent in duration. It is not practicable to estimate
the amount of deferred tax liability related to investments in these foreign subsidiaries.      The Company files
income tax returns with the U.S. federal government and various state and local jurisdictions, as well as foreign jurisdictions. The Company is under continuous examination by the IRS and other tax authorities in jurisdictions in which the Company
has significant business operations. The income tax years under examination vary by jurisdiction and subsidiary. The Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state and local, or foreign income tax examinations in major taxing jurisdictions for
years prior to 2003, except for 2000 through 2002 where the IRS has disallowed certain tax credits claimed and the Company continues to protest. The IRS audit cycle for the years 2003 through 2006, which began in April 2010, is expected to conclude
in 2013.      The Company s liability for unrecognized tax benefits may increase or decrease in the next 12
months. A reasonable estimate of the increase or decrease cannot be made at this time. However, the Company continues to believe that the ultimate resolution of the pending issues will not result in a material change to its consolidated financial
statements, although the resolution of income tax matters could impact the Company s effective tax rate for a particular future period.   
         368

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax
benefits was as follows:       

The Company classifies interest accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits in interest expense,
included within other expenses, while penalties are included in income tax expense.      Interest was as follows:

The Company had no penalties for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.   
  The U.S. Treasury Department and the IRS have indicated that they intend to address through regulations the methodology
to be followed in determining the dividends received deduction ( DRD ), related to variable life insurance and annuity contracts. The DRD reduces the amount of dividend income subject to tax and is a significant component of the difference
between the actual tax expense and expected amount determined using the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. Any regulations that the IRS ultimately proposes for issuance in this area will be subject to public notice and comment, at which time
insurance companies and other interested parties will have the opportunity to raise legal and practical questions about the content, scope and application of such regulations. As a result, the ultimate timing and substance of any such regulations
are unknown at this time. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company recognized an income tax benefit of $152 million and $159 million, respectively, related to the separate account DRD. The 2012 benefit included a
benefit of less than $1 million related to a true-up of the 2011 tax return. The 2011 benefit included an expense of $8 million related to a true-up of the 2010 tax return.   
         369

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

      20.  Earnings Per Common Share    
   The following table presents the weighted average shares used in calculating basic earnings per common
share and those used in calculating diluted earnings per common share for each income category presented below:       

370

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)  
    For purposes of the earnings per common share calculation, for the year ended December 31, 2010, the convertible preferred stock was assumed
converted into shares of common stock for both basic and diluted weighted average shares. See Note 16.          

(2)  
    See Note 15 for a description of the Company s common equity units. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2010, all shares
related to the assumed issuance of shares in settlement of the applicable purchase contracts have been excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share as these assumed shares are anti-dilutive.      

      21.  Contingencies, Commitments and Guarantees    
     Contingencies           Litigation         The Company is a defendant in a
large number of litigation matters. In some of the matters, very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, are sought. Modern pleading practice in the U.S. permits considerable variation in the assertion of
monetary damages or other relief. Jurisdictions may permit claimants not to specify the monetary damages sought or may permit claimants to state only that the amount sought is sufficient to invoke the jurisdiction of the trial court. In addition,
jurisdictions may permit plaintiffs to allege monetary damages in amounts well exceeding reasonably possible verdicts in the jurisdiction for similar matters. This variability in pleadings, together with the actual experience of the Company in
litigating or resolving through settlement numerous claims over an extended period of time, demonstrates to management that the monetary relief which may be specified in a lawsuit or claim bears little relevance to its merits or disposition value.
     Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and the amount or range of potential
loss at particular points in time may normally be difficult to ascertain. Uncertainties can include how fact finders will evaluate documentary evidence and the credibility and effectiveness of witness testimony, and how trial and appellate courts
will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal. Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view
the relevant evidence and applicable law.      The Company establishes liabilities for litigation and regulatory
loss contingencies when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities have been established for a number of the matters noted below. It is possible that some of the matters could
require the Company to pay damages or make other expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that could not be estimated at December 31, 2012. While the potential future charges could be material in the particular quarterly or annual periods
in which they are recorded, based on information currently known to management, management does not believe any such charges are likely to have a material effect on the Company s financial position.   
    Matters as to Which an Estimate Can Be Made     
  For some of the matters disclosed below, the Company is able to estimate a reasonably possible range of loss. For such
matters where a loss is believed to be reasonably possible, but not probable, no accrual has been made. As of December 31, 2012, the Company estimates the aggregate range of reasonably possible losses in excess of amounts accrued for these
matters to be $0 to $285 million.   
         371

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Matters as to Which an Estimate Cannot Be Made     
  For other matters disclosed below, the Company is not currently able to estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of
loss. The Company is often unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss until developments in such matters have provided sufficient information to support an assessment of the range of possible loss, such as quantification of a damage
demand from plaintiffs, discovery from other parties and investigation of factual allegations, rulings by the court on motions or appeals, analysis by experts, and the progress of settlement negotiations. On a quarterly and annual basis, the Company
reviews relevant information with respect to litigation contingencies and updates its accruals, disclosures and estimates of reasonably possible losses or ranges of loss based on such reviews.   
    Asbestos-Related Claims        MLIC is and has been a defendant in a large number of asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts. These suits principally allege that the plaintiff or plaintiffs suffered personal injury
resulting from exposure to asbestos and seek both actual and punitive damages. MLIC has never engaged in the business of manufacturing, producing, distributing or selling asbestos or asbestos-containing products nor has MLIC issued liability or
workers  compensation insurance to companies in the business of manufacturing, producing, distributing or selling asbestos or asbestos-containing products. The lawsuits principally have focused on allegations with respect to certain research,
publication and other activities of one or more of MLIC s employees during the period from the 1920 s through approximately the 1950 s and allege that MLIC learned or should have learned of certain health risks posed by asbestos and,
among other things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those health risks. MLIC believes that it should not have legal liability in these cases. The outcome of most asbestos litigation matters, however, is uncertain and can be impacted by
numerous variables, including differences in legal rulings in various jurisdictions, the nature of the alleged injury and factors unrelated to the ultimate legal merit of the claims asserted against MLIC. MLIC employs a number of resolution
strategies to manage its asbestos loss exposure, including seeking resolution of pending litigation by judicial rulings and settling individual or groups of claims or lawsuits under appropriate circumstances.   
  Claims asserted against MLIC have included negligence, intentional tort and conspiracy concerning the health risks
associated with asbestos. MLIC s defenses (beyond denial of certain factual allegations) include that: (i) MLIC owed no duty to the plaintiffs   it had no special relationship with the plaintiffs and did not manufacture, produce,
distribute or sell the asbestos products that allegedly injured plaintiffs; (ii) plaintiffs did not rely on any actions of MLIC; (iii) MLIC s conduct was not the cause of the plaintiffs  injuries; (iv) plaintiffs 
exposure occurred after the dangers of asbestos were known; and (v) the applicable time with respect to filing suit has expired. During the course of the litigation, certain trial courts have granted motions dismissing claims against MLIC,
while other trial courts have denied MLIC s motions to dismiss. There can be no assurance that MLIC will receive favorable decisions on motions in the future. While most cases brought to date have settled, MLIC intends to continue to defend
aggressively against claims based on asbestos exposure, including defending claims at trials.   
         372

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The approximate total number of asbestos personal injury claims pending
against MLIC as of the dates indicated, the approximate number of new claims during the years ended on those dates and the approximate total settlement payments made to resolve asbestos personal injury claims at or during those years are set forth
in the following table:       

(1)  
    Settlement payments represent payments made by MLIC during the year in connection with settlements made in that year and in prior years. Amounts do
not include MLIC s attorneys  fees and expenses and do not reflect amounts received from insurance carriers.      
   In 2009, MLIC received 3,910 new claims, ending the year with a total of 68,804 claims, and paid $37.6
million for settlements reached in 2009 and prior years. In 2008, MLIC received 5,063 new claims, ending the year with a total of 74,027 claims, and paid $99 million for settlements reached in 2008 and prior years. In 2007, MLIC received 7,161
new claims, ending the year with a total of 79,717 claims, and paid $28.2 million for settlements reached in 2007 and prior years. In 2006, MLIC received 7,870 new claims, ending the year with a total of 87,070 claims, and paid
$35.5 million for settlements reached in 2006 and prior years. In 2005, MLIC received 18,500 new claims, ending the year with a total of 100,250 claims, and paid $74.3 million for settlements reached in 2005 and prior years. In 2004, MLIC
received 23,900 new claims, ending the year with a total of 108,000 claims, and paid $85.5 million for settlements reached in 2004 and prior years. In 2003, MLIC received 58,750 new claims, ending the year with a total of 111,700 claims, and
paid $84.2 million for settlements reached in 2003 and prior years. The number of asbestos cases that may be brought, the aggregate amount of any liability that MLIC may incur, and the total amount paid in settlements in any given year are
uncertain and may vary significantly from year to year.      The ability of MLIC to estimate its ultimate asbestos
exposure is subject to considerable uncertainty, and the conditions impacting its liability can be dynamic and subject to change. The availability of reliable data is limited and it is difficult to predict the numerous variables that can affect
liability estimates, including the number of future claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity of disease in pending and future claims, the impact of the number of new claims filed in a particular jurisdiction and variations in
the law in the jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible impact of tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to allow plaintiffs to pursue claims against MLIC when exposure to asbestos took place after the dangers of asbestos
exposure were well known, and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts.      The
ability to make estimates regarding ultimate asbestos exposure declines significantly as the estimates relate to years further in the future. In the Company s judgment, there is a future point after which losses cease to be probable and
reasonably estimable. It is reasonably possible that the Company s total exposure to asbestos claims may be materially greater than the asbestos liability currently accrued and that future charges to income may be necessary. While the potential
future charges could be material in the particular quarterly or annual periods in which they are recorded, based on information currently known by management, management does not believe any such charges are likely to have a material effect on the
Company s financial position.   
         373

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   The Company believes adequate provision has been made in its
consolidated financial statements for all probable and reasonably estimable losses for asbestos-related claims. MLIC s recorded asbestos liability is based on its estimation of the following elements, as informed by the facts presently known to
it, its understanding of current law and its past experiences: (i) the probable and reasonably estimable liability for asbestos claims already asserted against MLIC, including claims settled but not yet paid; (ii) the probable and
reasonably estimable liability for asbestos claims not yet asserted against MLIC, but which MLIC believes are reasonably probable of assertion; and (iii) the legal defense costs associated with the foregoing claims. Significant assumptions
underlying MLIC s analysis of the adequacy of its recorded liability with respect to asbestos litigation include: (i) the number of future claims; (ii) the cost to resolve claims; and (iii) the cost to defend claims.   
  MLIC reevaluates on a quarterly and annual basis its exposure from asbestos litigation, including studying its claims
experience, reviewing external literature regarding asbestos claims experience in the United States, assessing relevant trends impacting asbestos liability and considering numerous variables that can affect its asbestos liability exposure on an
overall or per claim basis. These variables include bankruptcies of other companies involved in asbestos litigation, legislative and judicial developments, the number of pending claims involving serious disease, the number of new claims filed
against it and other defendants and the jurisdictions in which claims are pending. As previously disclosed, in 2002 MLIC increased its recorded liability for asbestos-related claims by $402 million from $820 million to $1.2 billion.
Based upon its regular reevaluation of its exposure from asbestos litigation, MLIC has updated its liability analysis for asbestos-related claims through December 31, 2012.   
    Regulatory Matters        The Company receives and responds to subpoenas or other inquiries from state regulators, including state insurance commissioners; state attorneys general or other state governmental authorities; federal
regulators, including the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC  federal governmental authorities, including congressional committees; and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ( FINRA ) seeking a broad range of
information. The issues involved in information requests and regulatory matters vary widely. The Company cooperates in these inquiries.       MetLife Bank Mortgage Regulatory and Law Enforcement Authorities  Inquiries       Since 2008, MetLife, through its affiliate, MetLife Bank, has been engaged in the forward and reverse residential mortgage origination and servicing business. See Note 3 for information regarding the
MetLife Bank Divestiture. State and federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities have initiated various inquiries, investigations or examination of alleged irregularities in the foreclosure practices of the residential mortgage servicing
industry. Mortgage servicing practices have also been the subject of Congressional attention. Authorities have publicly stated that the scope of the investigations extends beyond foreclosure documentation practices to include mortgage loan
modification and loss mitigation practices.      On April 13, 2011, the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency (the  OCC ) entered into consent orders with several banks, including MetLife Bank. The consent orders require an independent review of foreclosure practices and set forth new residential mortgage servicing standards, including a
requirement for a designated point of contact for a borrower during the loss mitigation process. In the first quarter of 2013, MetLife Bank entered into an agreement in principle with the OCC to settle obligations related to the independent
foreclosure review required by its consent order. Under the agreement in principle, the foreclosure review will end and MetLife Bank will pay approximately $46 million. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board entered into consent decrees with
the affiliated bank holding companies of these banks, including MetLife, Inc., to enhance the   
         374

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
supervision of the mortgage servicing activities of their banking subsidiaries. On August 6, 2012, the Federal Reserve Board issued an Order of Assessment of a Civil Monetary Penalty Issued
Upon Consent against MetLife, Inc. that will impose a penalty of up to $3.2 million for the alleged deficiencies in oversight of MetLife Bank s servicing of residential mortgage loans and processing foreclosures that were the subject of the
2011 consent order.      MetLife Bank has also had a meeting with the Department of Justice regarding mortgage
servicing and foreclosure practices. It is possible that various state or federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities may seek monetary penalties from MetLife Bank relating to foreclosure practices.   
  MetLife Bank has also responded to a subpoena issued by the New York State Department of Financial Services
( Department of Financial Services ) regarding hazard insurance and flood insurance that MetLife Bank obtains to protect the lienholder s interest when the borrower s insurance has lapsed. In April and May 2012, MetLife Bank
received two subpoenas issued by the Office of Inspector General for the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development regarding Federal Housing Administration ( FHA ) insured loans. In June and September 2012, MetLife Bank received two
Civil Investigative Demands that the U.S. Department of Justice issued as part of a False Claims Act investigation of allegations that MetLife Bank had improperly originated and/or underwritten loans insured by the FHA.   
  The consent decrees, as well as the inquiries or investigations referred to above, could adversely affect MetLife s
reputation or result in significant fines, penalties, equitable remedies or other enforcement actions, and result in significant legal costs in responding to governmental investigations or other litigation. The MetLife Bank Divestiture may not
relieve MetLife from complying with the consent decrees, or protect it from the inquiries and investigations relating to residential mortgage servicing and foreclosure activities, or any fines, penalties, equitable remedies or enforcement actions
that may result, the costs of responding to any such governmental investigations, or other litigation. Management believes that the Company s consolidated financial statements as a whole will not be materially affected by the MetLife Bank
regulatory matters.       United States of America v. EME Homer City Generation, L.P., et al. (W.D. Pa.,
filed January 4, 2011)       On January 4, 2011, the U.S. commenced a civil action in United
States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania against EME Homer City Generation L.P. ( EME Homer City ), Homer City OL6 LLC, and other defendants regarding the operations of the Homer City Generating Station, an
electricity generating facility. At the time the action was commenced, Homer City OL6 LLC, an entity owned by MLIC, was a passive investor with a non-controlling interest in the electricity generating facility, which was solely operated by the
lessee, EME Homer City. In a 2012 transaction, ownership of the electricity generating facility was transferred to Homer City Generation, LP., and Homer City OL6 LLC was merged into Homer City Generation, L.P. MLIC is a limited partner in Homer City
Generation, LP. The complaint sought injunctive relief and assessment of civil penalties for alleged violations of the federal Clean Air Act and Pennsylvania s State Implementation Plan. The alleged violations were the subject of Notices of
Violations ( NOVs ) that the Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) issued to EME Homer City, Homer City OL6 LLC, and others in June 2008 and May 2010. On January 7, 2011, the United States District Court for the Western
District of Pennsylvania granted the motion by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection and the State of New York to intervene in the lawsuit as additional plaintiffs. On February 16, 2011, the State of New Jersey filed an
Intervenor s Complaint in the lawsuit. On October 12, 2011, the court issued an order dismissing the U.S. s lawsuit with prejudice. The Government entities have appealed from the order granting defendants  motion to dismiss. EME
Homer City acknowledged its obligation to indemnify the owners of the electricity generating facility for any claims relating to the NOVs. The Sierra Club, which, in a February 13, 2012 letter to the operator and owners of the electricity
  
         375

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
generating facility had stated its intent to sue for alleged violations of the Clean Air Act, subsequently indicated that it does not intend to commence suit. As a result of the change in the
ownership structure, the parties to the proceeding no longer include a subsidiary of MetLife.       In the
Matter of Chemform, Inc. Site, Pompano Beach, Broward County, Florida       In July 2010, the EPA advised MLIC
that it believed payments were due under two settlement agreements, known as  Administrative Orders on Consent,  that New England Mutual Life Insurance Company ( New England Mutual ) signed in 1989 and 1992 with respect to the
cleanup of a Superfund site in Florida (the  Chemform Site ). The EPA originally contacted MLIC (as successor to New England Mutual) and a third party in 2001, and advised that they owed additional clean-up costs for the Chemform Site. The
matter was not resolved at that time. The EPA is requesting payment of an amount under $1 million from MLIC and such third party for past costs and an additional amount for future environmental testing costs at the Chemform Site. In June 2012,
the EPA, MLIC and the third party executed an Administrative Order on Consent under which MLIC and the third party have agreed to be responsible for certain environmental testing at the Chemform site. The Company estimates that its costs for the
environmental testing will not exceed $100,000. The June 2012 Administrative Order on Consent does not resolve the EPA s claim for past clean-up costs. The EPA may seek additional costs if the environmental testing identifies issues. The
Company estimates that the aggregate cost to resolve this matter will not exceed $1 million.       Metco
Site, Hicksville, Nassau County, New York       On February 22, 2012, the New York State Department of
Environmental Conservation ( Department of Environmental Conservation ) issued a notice to MLIC, as purported successor in interest to New England Mutual, that it is a potentially responsible party with respect to hazardous substances and
hazardous waste located on a property that New England Mutual owned for a time in 1978. MLIC has responded to the Department of Environmental Conservation and asserted that it is not a potentially responsible party under the law.   
   Sales Practices Regulatory Matters    
  Regulatory authorities in a small number of states and FINRA, and occasionally the SEC, have had investigations or
inquiries relating to sales of individual life insurance policies or annuities or other products by MLIC, MICC, New England Life Insurance Company and General American Life Insurance Company ( GALIC ), and four Company broker-dealers,
which are MetLife Securities, Inc., New England Securities Corporation, Walnut Street Securities, Inc. and Tower Square Securities, Inc. These investigations often focus on the conduct of particular financial services representatives and the sale of
unregistered or unsuitable products or the misuse of client assets. Over the past several years, these and a number of investigations by other regulatory authorities were resolved for monetary payments and certain other relief, including restitution
payments. The Company may continue to resolve investigations in a similar manner. The Company believes adequate provision has been made in its consolidated financial statements for all probable and reasonably estimable losses for these sales
practices-related investigations or inquiries.        Unclaimed Property Inquiries and Related Litigation 
      In April 2012, the Company reached agreements with representatives of the U.S. jurisdictions that were
conducting audits of MetLife, Inc. and certain of its affiliates for compliance with unclaimed property laws, and with state insurance regulators directly involved in a multistate targeted market conduct examination relating to claim-payment
practices and compliance with unclaimed property laws. At December 31, 2012, the unclaimed property regulators of 39 states and the District of Columbia, and the insurance regulators of 48 states and the
  
         376

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
District of Columbia have accepted the respective agreements. Pursuant to the agreements, the Company will, among other things, take specified action to identify liabilities under life insurance,
annuity, and retained asset contracts, to adopt specified procedures for seeking to contact and pay owners of the identified liabilities, and, to the extent that it is unable to locate such owners, to escheat these amounts with interest at a
specified rate to the appropriate states. Additionally, the Company has agreed to accelerate the final date of certain industrial life policies and to escheat unclaimed benefits of such policies. Pursuant to the agreement to resolve the market
conduct examination, MetLife, Inc. made a $40 million multi-state examination payment, to be allocated among the settling states. In the third quarter of 2011, the Company incurred a $117 million after tax charge to increase reserves in
connection with the Company s use of the U.S. Social Security Administration s Death Master File and similar databases to identify potential life insurance claims that had not been presented to the Company. In the first quarter of 2012,
the Company recorded a $52 million after tax charge for the multistate examination payment and the expected acceleration of benefit payments to policyholders under the settlements. On September 20, 2012, the West Virginia Treasurer filed
an action against MLIC in West Virginia state court ( West Virginia ex rel. John D. Perdue v. Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, Circuit Court of Putnam County, Civil Action No. 12-C-295 ) alleging that the Company violated the West
Virginia Uniform Unclaimed Property Act, seeking to compel compliance with the Act, and seeking payment of unclaimed property, interest, and penalties. On November 14, 2012, November 21, 2012, December 28, 2012, and
January 9, 2013, the Treasurer filed substantially identical suits against MetLife Investors USA Insurance Company, New England Life Insurance Company, MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut and GALIC, respectively. At least one other
jurisdiction is pursuing a similar market conduct examination concerning compliance with unclaimed property statutes. It is possible that other jurisdictions may pursue similar examinations, audits, or lawsuits and that such actions may result in
additional payments to beneficiaries, additional escheatment of funds deemed abandoned under state laws, administrative penalties, interest, and/or further changes to the Company s procedures. The Company is not currently able to estimate these
additional possible costs.       Total Asset Recovery Services, LLC on behalf of the State of Minnesota v.
MetLife, Inc., et. al. (Dist. Court, County of Hennepin, MN, filed January 31, 2011)       Alleging that
MetLife, Inc. and another company violated the Minnesota Uniform Disposition of Unclaimed Property Act by failing to escheat to Minnesota benefits of 584 life insurance contracts, the Relator brought an action under the Minnesota False Claims Act
seeking to recover damages on behalf of Minnesota. The action was sealed by court order until March 22, 2012. The Relator alleged that the aggregate damages, including statutory damages and treble damages, are $228 million. The Relator did not
allocate this claimed damage amount between MetLife, Inc. and the other defendant. On December 31, 2012, the court granted motions by MetLife, Inc. and the other defendant to dismiss the action.   
   Total Asset Recovery Services, LLC on behalf of the State of Florida v. MetLife, Inc., et. al. (Cir. Ct. Leon County,
FL, filed October 27, 2010)       Alleging that MetLife, Inc. and two other companies have violated the
Florida Disposition of Unclaimed Property law by failing to escheat to Florida benefits of 9,022 life insurance contracts, the Relator has brought an action under the Florida False Claims Act seeking to recover damages on behalf of Florida. The
action had been sealed by court order until December 17, 2012. The Relator alleges that the aggregate damages, including statutory damages and treble damages, are $3.2 billion. The Relator does not allocate this claimed damage amount among
MetLife, Inc. and the other defendants. The Relator also bases its damage calculation in part on its assumption that the average face amount of the subject policies is $120,000. MetLife, Inc. strongly disputes this assumption, the Relator s
alleged damages amounts, and other allegations in the complaint. On December 14, 2012, the Florida Attorney General apprised the court that the State of Florida declined to   
         377

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
intervene in the action and noted that the allegations in the complaint  . . . are very similar (if not identical) to those raised in regulatory investigations of the defendants that
predated the filing of the action  and that those regulatory investigations have been resolved. MetLife, Inc. intends to defend this action vigorously.       City of Westland Police and Fire Retirement System v. MetLife, Inc., et. al. (S.D.N.Y., filed January 12, 2012)    
  Seeking to represent a class of persons who purchased MetLife, Inc. common shares between February 2, 2010, and
October 6, 2011, the plaintiff filed an action alleging that MetLife, Inc. and several current and former executive officers of MetLife, Inc. violated the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder by issuing, or
causing MetLife, Inc. to issue, materially false and misleading statements concerning MetLife, Inc. s potential liability for millions of dollars in insurance benefits that should have been paid to beneficiaries or escheated to the states.
Plaintiff seeks unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. The defendants intend to vigorously defend this action.       City of Birmingham Retirement and Relief System v. MetLife, Inc. et al. (N.D. Alabama, filed in state court on July 5, 2012 and removed to federal court on August 3, 2012)    
  Seeking to represent a class of persons who purchased MetLife, Inc. common equity units in or traceable to a public
offering in March 2011, the plaintiff filed an action alleging that MetLife, Inc., certain current and former directors and executive officers of MetLife, Inc., and various underwriters violated several provisions of the Securities Act of 1933
related to the filing of the registration statement by issuing, or causing MetLife, Inc. to issue, materially false and misleading statements and/or omissions concerning MetLife, Inc. s potential liability for millions of dollars in insurance
benefits that should have been paid to beneficiaries or escheated to the states. Plaintiff seeks unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. Defendants removed this action to federal court, and plaintiff has moved to remand the action to
state court. The defendants intend to defend this action vigorously.       Derivative Actions and Demands
      Seeking to sue derivatively on behalf of MetLife, Inc., four shareholders commenced separate actions
against members of the MetLife, Inc. Board of Directors, alleging that they breached their fiduciary and other duties to the Company. The actions are  Fishbaum v. Kandarian, et al.  ( Sup. Ct., New York County, filed January 27,
2012 ),  Batchelder v. Burwell, et al. (Sup. Ct., New York County, filed March 6, 2012 ),  Mallon v. Kandarian, et al. (S.D.N.Y., filed March 28, 2012 ), and  Martino v. Kandarian, et al. (S.D.N.Y., filed April 19,
2012) . The two federal court actions have been consolidated and have been stayed pending further order of the court. The two state court actions have been consolidated under the caption  In re: MetLife Shareholder Derivative Action  and an
amended complaint has been filed. Plaintiffs in all four actions allege that the defendants failed to ensure that the Company complied with state unclaimed property laws and to ensure that the Company accurately reported its earnings. Plaintiffs
allege that because of the defendants  breaches of duty, MetLife, Inc. has incurred damage to its reputation and has suffered other unspecified damages. The defendants intend to defend these actions vigorously. A fifth shareholder, Western
Pennsylvania Electrical Workers Pension Fund, has written to the MetLife, Inc. Board of Directors demanding that MetLife, Inc. take action against current and former Board members, executive officers, and MetLife, Inc. s independent auditor,
for similar alleged breaches of duty with respect to the Company s compliance with unclaimed property laws and financial disclosures. The MetLife, Inc. Board of Directors appointed a Special Committee to investigate these allegations. On
September 24, 2012, counsel for the Special Committee apprised this shareholder that the Board of Directors had reviewed the issues and rejected the demand.   
         378

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
     Total Control Accounts Litigation     
  MLIC is a defendant in a consolidated lawsuit related to its use of retained asset accounts, known as Total Control
Accounts ( TCA ), as a settlement option for death benefits.       Keife, et al. v. Metropolitan Life
Insurance Company (D. Nev., filed in state court on July 30, 2010 and removed to federal court on September 7, 2010); and Simon v. Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (D. Nev., filed November 3, 2011)    
  These putative class action lawsuits, which have been consolidated, raise breach of contract claims arising from
MLIC s use of the TCA to pay life insurance benefits under the Federal Employees  Group Life Insurance ( FEGLI ) program. As damages, plaintiffs seek disgorgement of the difference between the interest paid to the account holders
and the investment earnings on the assets backing the accounts. In September 2010, plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification of the breach of contract claim, which the court has denied. On April 28, 2011, the court denied MLIC s
motion to dismiss. On May 4, 2012, MLIC moved for summary judgment.      Various state regulators have also
taken actions with respect to retained asset accounts. The Department of Financial Services issued a circular letter on March 29, 2012 stating that an insurer should only use a retained asset account when a policyholder or beneficiary
affirmatively chooses to receive life insurance proceeds through such an account and providing for certain disclosures to a beneficiary, including that payment by a single check is an option. In connection with a market conduct exam, MLIC entered
into a consent order with the Minnesota Department of Commerce regarding MLIC s use of TCAs as a default option.      The Company is unable to estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of loss arising from the TCA matters.        Other U.S. Litigation         Roberts, et al. v. Tishman
Speyer Properties, et al. (Sup. Ct., N.Y. County, filed January 22, 2007)       This lawsuit was filed by a
putative class of market rate tenants at Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village against parties including MTL and Metropolitan Insurance and Annuity Company. Metropolitan Insurance and Annuity Company has merged into MTL and no longer exists as a
separate entity. These tenants claim that MTL, as former owner, and the current owner improperly deregulated apartments while receiving J-51 tax abatements. The lawsuit seeks declaratory relief and damages for rent overcharges. In October 2009, the
New York State Court of Appeals issued an opinion denying MTL s motion to dismiss the complaint. The defendants reached a settlement in principle with the plaintiff tenants, subject to finalizing the settlement terms and court approval. On
November 26, 2012, the court preliminarily approved the proposed settlement, to include payment by MTL of $10.5 million into escrow. Notice to class members was given on January 3, 2013, and the court has scheduled a fairness hearing
for April 9, 2013. The Company believes adequate provision has been made in its consolidated financial statements for all probable and reasonably estimable losses for this lawsuit.   
   Merrill Haviland, et al. v. Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (E.D. Mich., removed to federal court on July 22,
2011)       This lawsuit was filed by 45 retired General Motors ( GM ) employees against MLIC and the
amended complaint includes claims for conversion, unjust enrichment, breach of contract, fraud, intentional infliction of emotional distress, fraudulent insurance acts, unfair trade practices, and ERISA claims based upon GM s 2009 reduction of
the employees  life insurance coverage under GM s ERISA-governed plan. The complaint includes a count seeking class action status. MLIC is the insurer of GM s group life insurance plan and administers claims under the plan. According
to the complaint, MLIC had previously provided plaintiffs with a  written guarantee    
         379

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   
that their life insurance benefits under the GM plan would not be reduced for the rest of their lives. On June 26, 2012, the district court granted MLIC s motion to dismiss the
complaint. Plaintiffs have appealed that decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.   
   McGuire v. Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (E.D. Mich., filed February 22, 2012).    
  This lawsuit was filed by the fiduciary for the Union Carbide Employees  Pension Plan and alleges that MLIC, which
issued annuity contracts to fund some of the benefits the Plan provides, engaged in transactions that ERISA prohibits and violated duties under ERISA and federal common law by determining that no dividends were payable with respect to the contracts
from and after 1999. On September 26, 2012, the court denied MLIC s motion to dismiss the complaint. The parties have begun discovery.       Sales Practices Claims       Over the past several years, the
Company has faced numerous claims, including class action lawsuits, alleging improper marketing or sales of individual life insurance policies, annuities, mutual funds or other products. Some of the current cases seek substantial damages, including
punitive and treble damages and attorneys  fees. The Company continues to vigorously defend against the claims in these matters. The Company believes adequate provision has been made in its consolidated financial statements for all probable and
reasonably estimable losses for sales practices matters.       Dolan v. Lawsky, et al. (S.D.N.Y., filed
November 8, 2012)       Several plaintiffs filed this action against the New York Superintendent of
Financial Services, MLIC, and other parties alleging that the defendants breached fiduciary duties and contractual obligations and were unjustly enriched through actions they took with respect to the rehabilitation and subsequent liquidation of
Executive Life Insurance Company of New York ( ELNY ). Among other things, plaintiffs asserted that contracts entered into in 1992 between MLIC and the ELNY rehabilitator were improper. Plaintiffs sought to represent a class of
beneficiaries of ELNY structured settlement annuities who will receive reduced payments under ELNY s court-approved liquidation plan. On February 6, 2013, the plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed this action without prejudice.   
    International Litigation         Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. (Super. Ct., Ontario, October 2006)       In 2006, Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada ( Sun Life ), as successor to the purchaser of MLIC s Canadian operations, filed this lawsuit in Toronto, seeking a declaration that MLIC
remains liable for  market conduct claims  related to certain individual life insurance policies sold by MLIC and that have been transferred to Sun Life. Sun Life had asked that the court require MLIC to indemnify Sun Life for these claims
pursuant to indemnity provisions in the sale agreement for the sale of MLIC s Canadian operations entered into in June of 1998. In January 2010, the court found that Sun Life had given timely notice of its claim for indemnification but, because
it found that Sun Life had not yet incurred an indemnifiable loss, granted MLIC s motion for summary judgment. Both parties appealed. In September 2010, Sun Life notified MLIC that a purported class action lawsuit was filed against Sun Life in
Toronto,  Kang v. Sun Life Assurance Co. (Super. Ct., Ontario, September 2010) , alleging sales practices claims regarding the same individual policies sold by MLIC and transferred to Sun Life. An amended class action complaint in that
case was served on Sun Life, again without naming MLIC as a party. On August 30, 2011, Sun Life notified MLIC that a purported class action lawsuit was filed against Sun Life in Vancouver,  Alamwala v. Sun Life Assurance Co. (Sup. Ct.,
British Columbia, August 2011) , alleging sales practices claims regarding certain of the same policies sold by MLIC and transferred to Sun Life. Sun Life contends that MLIC is obligated to indemnify Sun Life for some or all of the claims in
these lawsuits. The Company is unable to estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of loss arising from this litigation.   
         380

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    Italy Fund Redemption Suspension Complaints and Litigation
      As a result of suspension of withdrawals and diminution in value in certain funds offered within certain
unit-linked policies sold by the Italian branch of Alico Life International, Ltd. ( ALIL ), a number of policyholders invested in those funds have either commenced or threatened litigation against ALIL, alleging misrepresentation,
inadequate disclosures and other related claims. These policyholders contacted ALIL beginning in July 2009 alleging that the funds operated at variance to the published prospectus and that prospectus risk disclosures were allegedly wrong, unclear,
and misleading. The limited number of lawsuits that have been filed to date have either been resolved or are proceeding through litigation. In March 2011, ALIL began implementing a plan to resolve policyholder claims. Under the plan, ALIL will
provide liquidity to the suspended funds so that policyholders may withdraw investments in these funds, and ALIL will offer policyholders amounts in addition to the liquidation value of the suspended funds based on the performance of other relevant
financial products. The settlement program achieved a 97% acceptance rate. Those policyholders who did not accept the settlement may still pursue other remedies or commence individual litigation. Under the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement, AIG
has agreed to indemnify MetLife, Inc. and its affiliates for third party claims and regulatory fines associated with ALIL s suspended funds.        Summary        Putative or certified class action
litigation and other litigation and claims and assessments against the Company, in addition to those discussed previously and those otherwise provided for in the Company s consolidated financial statements, have arisen in the course of the
Company s business, including, but not limited to, in connection with its activities as an insurer, mortgage lending bank, employer, investor, investment advisor and taxpayer. Further, state insurance regulatory authorities and other federal
and state authorities regularly make inquiries and conduct investigations concerning the Company s compliance with applicable insurance and other laws and regulations.   
  It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of all pending investigations and legal proceedings. In some of the
matters referred to previously, very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, are sought. Although in light of these considerations it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain cases could have a material
effect upon the Company s financial position, based on information currently known by the Company s management, in its opinion, the outcomes of such pending investigations and legal proceedings are not likely to have such an effect.
However, given the large and/or indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time, have a material effect on
the Company s consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods.         Insolvency
Assessments         Most of the jurisdictions in which the Company is admitted to transact business
require insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These associations
levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer
engaged. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. In addition, Japan has established the Life Insurance Policyholders Protection Corporation of Japan as a contingency to protect
policyholders against the insolvency of life insurance companies in Japan through assessments to companies licensed to provide life insurance.   
         381

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
   Assets and liabilities held for insolvency assessments were as follows:

(1)  
    The Company holds a receivable from the seller of a prior acquisition in accordance with the purchase agreement.      
   On September 1, 2011, the Department of Financial Services filed a liquidation plan for ELNY,
which had been under rehabilitation by the Liquidation Bureau since 1991. The plan will involve the satisfaction of insurers  financial obligations under a number of state life and health insurance guaranty associations and also contemplates
that additional industry support for certain ELNY policyholders will be provided. The Company recorded a net charge of $40 million, after tax, during the year ended December 31, 2011, related to ELNY.   
    Commitments           Leases         In accordance with industry practice,
certain of the Company s income from lease agreements with retail tenants are contingent upon the level of the tenants  revenues. Additionally, the Company, as lessee, has entered into various lease and sublease agreements for office
space, information technology and other equipment. Future minimum rental and sublease income, and minimum gross rental payments relating to these lease agreements are as follows:   

Commitments to Fund Partnership Investments      
  The Company makes commitments to fund partnership investments in the normal course of business. The amounts of these
unfunded commitments were $3.4 billion and $4.0 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The Company anticipates that these amounts will be invested in partnerships over the next five years.   
         382

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
      Mortgage Loan Commitments      
  Prior to exiting the business of originating forward and reverse residential mortgage loans, in the ordinary course of
business, the Company issued interest rate lock commitments on certain residential mortgage loan applications which totaled $5.6 billion at December 31, 2011. There were no outstanding interest rate lock commitments at December 31,
2012. The Company sells the originated residential mortgage loans. Interest rate lock commitments to fund mortgage loans that will be held-for-sale are considered derivatives and their estimated fair value and notional amounts are included within
interest rate forwards. See Notes 3 and 9.      The Company also commits to lend funds under certain mortgage
loan commitments that will be held-for-investment. The amounts of these mortgage loan commitments were $3.0 billion and $4.1 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   
     Commitments to Fund Bank Credit Facilities, Bridge Loans and Private Corporate Bond Investments      
  The Company commits to lend funds under bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments. The
amounts of these unfunded commitments were $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   
    Guarantees        In the normal course of its business, the Company has provided certain indemnities, guarantees and commitments to third parties pursuant to which it may be required to make payments now or in the future.
In the context of acquisition, disposition, investment and other transactions, the Company has provided indemnities and guarantees, including those related to tax, environmental and other specific liabilities and other indemnities and guarantees
that are triggered by, among other things, breaches of representations, warranties or covenants provided by the Company. In addition, in the normal course of business, the Company provides indemnifications to counterparties in contracts with
triggers similar to the foregoing, as well as for certain other liabilities, such as third-party lawsuits. These obligations are often subject to time limitations that vary in duration, including contractual limitations and those that arise by
operation of law, such as applicable statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum potential obligation under the indemnities and guarantees is subject to a contractual limitation ranging from less than $1 million to $800 million,
with a cumulative maximum of $1.6 billion, while in other cases such limitations are not specified or applicable. Since certain of these obligations are not subject to limitations, the Company does not believe that it is possible to determine
the maximum potential amount that could become due under these guarantees in the future. Management believes that it is unlikely the Company will have to make any material payments under these indemnities, guarantees, or commitments.   
  In addition, the Company indemnifies its directors and officers as provided in its charters and by-laws. Also, the
Company indemnifies its agents for liabilities incurred as a result of their representation of the Company s interests. Since these indemnities are generally not subject to limitation with respect to duration or amount, the Company does not
believe that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that could become due under these indemnities in the future.      The Company has also guaranteed minimum investment returns on certain international retirement funds in accordance with local laws. Since these guarantees are not subject to limitation with respect to
duration or amount, the Company does not believe that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that could become due under these guarantees in the future.   
  The Company s recorded liabilities were $5 million at both December 31, 2012 and 2011, for indemnities,
guarantees and commitments.   
         383

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          
    
 22. Quarterly Results of Operations 
      22.  Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)    
  The unaudited quarterly results of operations for 2012 and 2011 are summarized in the table below:   

384

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

      23.  Subsequent Events    
     Dividends           Preferred Stock         On February 15, 2013,
MetLife, Inc. announced dividends of $0.250 per share, for a total of $6 million, on its Series A preferred shares, and $0.406 per share, for a total of $24 million, on its Series B preferred shares, subject to the final
confirmation that it has met the financial tests specified in the Series A and Series B preferred shares, which the Company anticipates will be made on or about March 5, 2013. Both dividends will be payable March 15, 2013 to
shareholders of record as of February 28, 2013.         Common Stock      
  On January 4, 2013, the Company s Board of Directors approved a first quarter 2013 dividend of $0.185 per common
share payable on March 13, 2013 to stockholders of record as of February 6, 2013. The Company estimates the aggregate dividend payment to be $203 million.        Japan Income Tax Refund        In December 2012, the Tokyo
District Court ruled in favor of the Japan branch of American Life in a tax case related to the deduction of unrealized foreign exchange losses on certain securities held by American Life prior to the ALICO Acquisition. Subsequent to the ruling,
American Life will receive a refund of  16 billion ($190 million) related to income tax, interest and penalties, of which $160 million has been collected at December 31, 2012. Under the indemnification provisions of the Stock Purchase Agreement,
MetLife Inc. is required to remit the refund to AIG net of certain amounts it can retain as a counter claim. The receipt of the refund, net of obligations to AIG and corresponding U.S. tax effects, is expected to result in a $30 million charge to
net income and a slight decrease in the Company s overall effective tax rate in the first quarter of 2013.   
    Disposition and Pending Acquisition     
  See Note 3 for discussion of the MetLife Bank Divestiture.   
  On February 1, 2013, MetLife, Inc. announced that it has entered into a definitive agreement with Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A. ( BBVA ) and BBVA Inversiones Chile S.A. ( BBVA Inversiones,  and, together with BBVA, the  BBVA Sellers ) to acquire Administradora de Fondos de Pensiones Provida S.A. ( Provida ),
the largest private pension fund administrator in Chile by assets under management and number of contributors. Under the terms of the agreement, MetLife will conduct a public cash tender offer for all of the outstanding shares of Provida, and the
BBVA Sellers have agreed to transfer their 64.3% stake to MetLife. Assuming all publicly-held shares are tendered, the purchase price, which MetLife, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries will fund from their existing cash balances, would be
approximately $2 billion. The transaction is anticipated to close in the third quarter of 2013, subject to receipt of certain regulatory approvals and other customary conditions.   

         385

Table of Contents  

          MetLife, Inc.    
   
 Schedule     Schedule I    
    Consolidated Summary of Investments      
    Other Than Investments in Related Parties        December 31, 2012        (In millions)    

(1)  
    The Company s fair value option and trading securities portfolio is mainly comprised of fixed maturity and equity securities, including mutual
funds and, to a lesser extent, short-term investments and cash and cash equivalents. Cost or amortized cost for fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans held-for-investment represents original cost reduced by repayments, valuation allowances and
impairments from other-than-temporary declines in estimated fair value that are charged to earnings and adjusted for amortization of premiums or discounts; for equity securities, cost represents original cost reduced by impairments from
other-than-temporary declines in estimated fair value; for real estate, cost represents original cost reduced by impairments and adjusted for valuation allowances and depreciation; for real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership
interests cost represents original cost reduced for other-than-temporary impairments or original cost adjusted for equity in earnings and distributions.      
         386

Table of Contents  

Condensed Financial Information 
      MetLife, Inc.    
       Schedule II    
   Condensed Financial Information        (Parent Company Only)        December 31, 2012 and 2011    
   (In millions, except share and per share data)        
     See accompanying notes to the condensed financial information.    
         387

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Schedule II        Condensed Financial Information   (Continued)        (Parent Company Only)
       For the Years Ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010    
   (In millions)          

     See accompanying notes to the condensed financial information.    
         388

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Schedule II        Condensed Financial Information   (Continued)        (Parent Company Only)
       For the Years Ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010    
   (In millions)          

389

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Schedule II        Condensed Financial Information   (Continued)        (Parent Company Only)
       For the Years Ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010    
   (In millions)          

390

Table of Contents  

    MetLife, Inc.        Schedule II        Notes to the Condensed Financial Information
       (Parent Company Only)        1.  Basis of Presentation       The condensed
financial information of MetLife, Inc. (the  Parent Company ) should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries and the notes thereto (the  Consolidated Financial
Statements ). These condensed unconsolidated financial statements reflect the results of operations, financial position and cash flows for MetLife, Inc. Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
     The preparation of these condensed unconsolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to adopt accounting policies and make certain estimates and assumptions. The most important of these estimates and assumptions relate to the fair value measurements,
the accounting for goodwill and identifiable intangible assets and the provision for potential losses that may arise from litigation and regulatory proceedings and tax audits, which may affect the amounts reported in the condensed unconsolidated
financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from these estimates.       2.  Acquisition
      On November 1, 2010, MetLife, Inc. acquired all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of
American Life Insurance Company ( American Life ) and Delaware American Life Insurance Company ( DelAm ) (collectively,  ALICO ). See Notes 3, 11, 12, 15 and 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for further information on this acquisition.       3.  Investment in Subsidiaries    
  During 2012, MetLife, Inc. assumed debt from Exeter Reassurance Company, Ltd. ( Exeter ), a subsidiary, as
described in Note 5, in exchange for $2.0 billion of preferred stock of Exeter. In September 2012, MetLife Inc. subscribed to 75,000 shares of Exeter s Series A Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Shares which bears an annual rate of 7.69% that
is payable semi-annually. In December 2012, MetLife Inc. subscribed to 125,000 shares of Exeter s Series B Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Shares which bears an annual rate of 7.75% that is payable semi-annually.   
   4.  Loans to Subsidiaries       MetLife, Inc. lends funds, as necessary, to its subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their capital requirements. Payments of interest and principal on surplus notes of regulated
subsidiaries, which are subordinate to all other obligations of the issuing company, may be made only with the prior approval of the insurance department of the state of domicile.   
  In December 2012, MetLife Reinsurance Company of Delaware ( MRD ), issued a $750 million surplus note to
MetLife, Inc. due September 30, 2032. The surplus note bears interest at a fixed rate of 5.13% payable semi-annually. MetLife, Inc. issued a $750 million senior note to MRD in exchange for the surplus note (see Note 5).   
  In December 2011, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ) repaid in cash the $500 million capital notes
issued to MetLife, Inc. In April 2011, MLIC repaid in cash a $775 million surplus note issued to MetLife, Inc. and due December 2011. The early redemption was approved by the New York Superintendent of Insurance. In December 2010, MLIC repaid
at maturity and in cash a $300 million surplus note issued to MetLife, Inc.   
         391

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Schedule II        Notes to the Condensed Financial Information   (Continued)        (Parent
Company Only)          
   Interest income earned on loans to subsidiaries of $1 million,
$40 million and $63 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, is included in net investment income.       5.  Long-term Debt       Long-term debt outstanding
was as follows:       

(1)  
    Range of interest rates and weighted average interest rates are for the year ended December 31, 2012.      
  The aggregate maturities of long-term debt at December 31, 2012 for the next five years and thereafter are
$750 million in 2013, $1.8 billion in 2014, $1.3 billion in 2015, $1.7 billion in 2016, $500 million in 2017 and $12.8 billion thereafter.        Senior Notes   Affiliated        In September 2012,
$750 million of Exeter senior notes payable to MLIC were reassigned to MetLife, Inc. MetLife, Inc. received $750 million of preferred stock of Exeter in exchange for the assumption of this affiliated debt (see Note 3). On September 30, 2012,
$250 million of the assumed senior notes matured and subsequently, in October 2012, a new $250 million senior note was issued by MetLife, Inc. to MLIC. The new $250 million senior note matures on October 1, 2019 and bears interest at a fixed
rate of 3.57%, payable semi-annually. The remaining $500 million senior note matures on June 30, 2014 and bears interest at a fixed rate of 6.44%, payable semi-annually.   
  In December 2012, $1.25 billion of Exeter senior notes payable to affiliates, which are comprised of three notes, were
reassigned to MetLife, Inc. MetLife, Inc. received $1.25 billion of preferred stock of Exeter in exchange for the assumption of this affiliated debt (see Note 3). A $250 million senior note matures on September 30, 2016 and bears interest at a
fixed rate of 7.44%, payable semi-annually. A $500 million senior note matures on July 15, 2021 and bears interest at a fixed rate of 5.64%, payable semi-annually. A $500 million senior note matures on December 16, 2021 and bears interest
at a fixed rate of 5.86%, payable semi-annually.      In December 2012, MetLife, Inc. issued a $750 million senior
note to MRD due September 30, 2032. The senior note bears interest at a fixed rate of 4.21%, payable semi-annually. MRD issued a $750 million surplus note to MetLife, Inc. in exchange for the senior note.   
     
         392

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Schedule II        Notes to the Condensed Financial Information   (Continued)        (Parent
Company Only)          
     Interest Expense     
  Interest expense was comprised of the following:   
   
     6.  Support Agreements    
  MetLife, Inc. is party to various capital support commitments and guarantees with certain of its subsidiaries. Under
these arrangements, MetLife, Inc. has agreed to cause each such entity to meet specified capital and surplus levels or has guaranteed certain contractual obligations.   
  In December 2012, MetLife, Inc., in connection with MRD s reinsurance of certain universal life and term life risks,
entered into a capital maintenance agreement pursuant to which MetLife, Inc. agreed, without limitation as to amount, to cause the initial protected cell of MRD to maintain total adjusted capital equal to or greater than 200% of such protected
cell s company action level risk-based capital ( RBC ), as defined in state insurance statutes.   
  In July 2012, in connection with an operating agreement with the Comptroller of the Currency (the  OCC )
governing MetLife Bank, National Association s ( MetLife Bank ) operations during its wind-down process, MetLife Bank and MetLife, Inc. entered into a capital support agreement with the OCC and MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Bank entered
into an indemnification and capital maintenance agreement under which agreements MetLife, Inc. will provide financial and other support to MetLife Bank to ensure that MetLife Bank can wind down its operations in a safe and sound manner. Pursuant to
the agreements, MetLife, Inc. is required to ensure that MetLife Bank meets or exceeds certain minimum capital and liquidity requirements once its Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance has been terminated and make indemnification payments
to MetLife Bank in connection with MetLife Bank s obligation under the April 2011 consent decree between MetLife Bank and the OCC. In February 2013, MetLife Bank s Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance was terminated. During the
year ended December 31, 2012, MetLife, Inc. invested $34 million in cash in MetLife Bank in connection with these agreements. See Note 7.      MetLife, Inc. guarantees the obligations of its subsidiary, DelAm, under a stop loss reinsurance agreement with RGA Reinsurance (Barbados) Inc. ( RGARe ), pursuant to which RGARe retrocedes to
DelAm a portion of the whole life medical insurance business that RGARe assumed from American Life on behalf of its Japan operations.      Prior to the sale in April 2011 of its 50% interest in Mitsui Sumitomo MetLife Insurance Co., Ltd ( MSI MetLife ) to a third party, MetLife, Inc. guaranteed the obligations of its subsidiary,
Exeter, under a reinsurance   
         393

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Schedule II        Notes to the Condensed Financial Information   (Continued)        (Parent
Company Only)          
   
agreement with MSI MetLife, under which Exeter reinsures variable annuity business written by MSI MetLife. This guarantee will remain in place until such time as the reinsurance agreement between
Exeter and MSI MetLife is terminated, notwithstanding the April 2011 disposition of MetLife, Inc. s interest in MSI MetLife as described in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  MetLife, Inc. guarantees the obligations of its subsidiary, Missouri Reinsurance, Inc. ( MoRe ), under a
retrocession agreement with RGARe, pursuant to which MoRe retrocedes a portion of the closed block liabilities associated with industrial life and ordinary life insurance policies that it assumed from MLIC.   
  MetLife, Inc. guarantees the obligations of Exeter in an aggregate amount up to $1.0 billion, under a reinsurance
agreement with MetLife Europe Limited ( MEL ), under which Exeter reinsures the guaranteed living benefits and guaranteed death benefits associated with certain unit-linked annuity contracts issued by MEL.   
  MetLife, Inc. guarantees the obligations of MoRe, under a retrocession agreement with RGARe, pursuant to which MoRe
retrocedes certain group term life insurance liabilities that it assumed from MLIC.      MetLife, Inc., in
connection with MetLife Reinsurance Company of Vermont s ( MRV ) reinsurance of certain universal life and term life insurance risks, committed to the Vermont Department of Banking, Insurance, Securities and Health Care
Administration to take necessary action to cause the three protected cells of MRV to maintain total adjusted capital in an amount that is equal to or greater than 200% of each such protected cell s authorized control level RBC, as defined in
Vermont state insurance statutes. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  MetLife, Inc., in connection with the collateral financing arrangement associated with MetLife Reinsurance Company of
Charleston s ( MRC ) reinsurance of a portion of the liabilities associated with the closed block, committed to the South Carolina Department of Insurance to make capital contributions, if necessary, to MRC so that MRC may at all
times maintain its total adjusted capital in an amount that is equal to or greater than 200% of the company action level RBC, as defined in South Carolina state insurance statutes as in effect on the date of determination or December 31,
2007, whichever calculation produces the greater capital requirement, or as otherwise required by the South Carolina Department of Insurance. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  MetLife, Inc., in connection with the collateral financing arrangement associated with MetLife Reinsurance Company of
South Carolina s ( MRSC ) reinsurance of universal life secondary guarantees, committed to the South Carolina Department of Insurance to take necessary action to cause MRSC to maintain the greater of capital and surplus of $250,000 or
total adjusted capital in an amount that is equal to or greater than 100% of authorized control level RBC, as defined in South Carolina state insurance statutes. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
     MetLife, Inc. has net worth maintenance agreements with two of its insurance subsidiaries, MetLife Investors
Insurance Company and First MetLife Investors Insurance Company. Under these agreements, as amended, MetLife, Inc. agreed, without limitation as to the amount, to cause each of these subsidiaries to have capital and surplus of $10 million,
total adjusted capital in an amount that is equal to or greater than 150% of the company action level RBC, as defined by applicable state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it to meet its current obligations on a timely
basis.   
         394

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Schedule II        Notes to the Condensed Financial Information   (Continued)        (Parent
Company Only)          
   MetLife, Inc. guarantees obligations arising from derivatives of the
following subsidiaries: Exeter, MetLife Bank, MetLife International Holdings, Inc. and MetLife Worldwide Holdings, Inc. These subsidiaries are exposed to various risks relating to their ongoing business operations, including interest rate, foreign
currency exchange rate, credit and equity market. These subsidiaries use a variety of strategies to manage these risks, including the use of derivatives. Further, all of the subsidiaries  derivatives are subject to industry standard netting
agreements and collateral agreements that limit the unsecured portion of any open derivative position. On a net counterparty basis at December 31, 2012 and 2011, derivative transactions with positive mark-to-market values (in-the-money) were
$3.2 billion and $4.9 billion, respectively, and derivative transactions with negative mark-to-market values (out-of-the-money) were $22 million and $51 million, respectively. To secure the obligations represented by the out of-the-money
transactions, the subsidiaries had provided collateral to their counterparties with an estimated fair value of $12 million and $47 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Accordingly, unsecured derivative liabilities guaranteed by
MetLife, Inc. were $10 million and $4 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.      MetLife, Inc.
also guarantees the obligations of certain of its subsidiaries under committed facilities with third-party banks. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
   7.  Subsequent Events       On January 9, 2013, MetLife, Inc. entered into an 18-month agreement with MetLife Bank to lend up to $500 million to MetLife Bank on a revolving basis. On February 11, 2013, the agreement was
amended to reduce borrowing capacity to $100 million, at which date there were no borrowings outstanding.   
         395

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Supplementary Insurance Information 
      MetLife, Inc.    
       Schedule III    
   Consolidated Supplementary Insurance Information        December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010        (In millions)    

(1)  
    Amounts are included within the future policy benefits, other policy-related balances and policyholder dividend obligation column.
     
         396

Table of Contents  

MetLife, Inc.    
   Schedule III   (Continued)        Consolidated Supplementary Insurance Information        December 31, 2012, 2011
and 2010        (In millions)          

(1)  
    Includes other expenses and policyholder dividends, excluding amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs ( DAC ) and value of
business acquired ( VOBA ) charged to other expenses.      
         397

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Reinsurance 
      MetLife, Inc.    
       Schedule IV    
   Consolidated Reinsurance        December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010        (In millions)    

398

Table of Contents  

      Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements With
Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure       None.   
     Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures    
  Management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the
effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective.   
  There were no changes to the Company s internal control over financial reporting as defined in Exchange Act Rule
13a-15(f) during the quarter ended December 31, 2012 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting.   
    Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting     
  Management of MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control
over financial reporting. In fulfilling this responsibility, estimates and judgments by management are required to assess the expected benefits and related costs of control procedures. The objectives of internal control include providing management
with reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use or disposition, and that transactions are executed in accordance with management s authorization and recorded properly to permit the
preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.      Management has documented and evaluated the effectiveness of the internal control of the Company at December 31, 2012 pertaining to financial reporting in accordance with the criteria established in
 Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.      In the opinion of management, MetLife, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2012.   
  Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the consolidated financial
statements and consolidated financial statement schedules included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. The Report of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on their audit of the consolidated
financial statements and consolidated financial statement schedules is included at page 187.        Attestation Report of the
Company s Registered Public Accounting Firm        The Company s independent registered public
accounting firm, Deloitte   Touche LLP, has issued their attestation report on management s internal control over financial reporting which is set forth below.   
         399

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
  To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of      MetLife, Inc.:      We have audited the internal control over
financial reporting of MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission. The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.   
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons
performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   
  Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion
or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial
reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   
  In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2012, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.   
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),
the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules of the Company as of and for the year ended December 31, 2012, and our report dated February 26, 2013 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial
statements and financial statement schedules.      / S / DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   
  DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   
  New York, New York      February 26, 2013   
         400

Table of Contents  

      Item 9B.        Other
Information       On February 24, 2013, MetLife, Inc. entered into an agreement with Michel Khalaf, President,
Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. The terms of the agreement were earlier authorized by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of MetLife, Inc. Under the agreement, MetLife will ensure that, effective January 1, 2012, the cost to
Mr. Khalaf of individual income taxes he owes on account of MetLife business travel will equal his cost of income taxes he would have owed had that income been taxable solely in his country of residence. Mr. Khalaf will also use a firm chosen
by MetLife for tax return preparation and related services, at MetLife s cost. MetLife estimates its cost for the arrangements provided under the agreement for 2012 will be $885,000 for tax equalization and $10,000 for tax return-related
services.      The foregoing description of the agreement is a summary, is not complete and is qualified in its
entirety by reference to the agreement, which is attached hereto as exhibit 10.15. and is incorporated herein by reference. The agreement will continue through 2014, unless earlier terminated in certain circumstances set forth in exhibit 10.15.
  
         401

Table of Contents  

    Part III    
     Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    
  The information called for by this Item pertaining to Directors is incorporated herein by reference to the sections
entitled  Proposal 1   Election of Directors,   Corporate Governance   Information About the Board of Directors,   Corporate Governance   Board Committees,  and  Security
Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in MetLife, Inc. s definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 23, 2013,
to be filed by MetLife, Inc. with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the year ended December 31, 2012 (the  2013 Proxy Statement ).   
  The information called for by this Item pertaining to Executive Officers appears in  Business   Executive
Officers  in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and  Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in the 2013 Proxy Statement.   
  The Company has adopted the MetLife Financial Management Code of Professional Conduct (the  Financial Management
Code ), a  code of ethics  as defined under the rules of the SEC, that applies to MetLife, Inc. s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and all professionals in finance and finance-related
departments. In addition, the Company has adopted the Directors  Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the  Directors  Code ) which applies to all members of MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors, including the Chief Executive
Officer, and the Employee Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (together with the Financial Management Code and the Directors  Code, collectively, the  Ethics Codes ), which applies to all employees of the Company, including MetLife,
Inc. s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer. The Ethics Codes are available on the Company s website at
http://www.metlife.com/about/corporate-profile/corporate-governance/corporate-conduct/index.html. The Company intends to satisfy its disclosure obligations under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K by posting information about amendments to, or waivers
from a provision of, the Ethics Codes that apply to MetLife, Inc. s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer on the Company s website at the address given above.   
     Item 11.  Executive Compensation    
  The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Corporate
Governance   Board Committees,   Corporate Governance   Compensation of Non-Management Directors,   Compensation Committee Report,   Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Summary
Compensation Table,   Grants of Plan-Based Awards in 2012,   Outstanding Equity Awards at 2012 Fiscal Year-End,   Option Exercises and Stock Vested in 2012,   Pension Benefits,   Nonqualified
Deferred Compensation  and  Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change-in-Control  in the 2013 Proxy Statement.   
         402

Table of Contents  

      Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management and Related Stockholder Matters       The information called for by this Item pertaining to
ownership of MetLife, Inc. s common stock is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers  and  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners  in the
2013 Proxy Statement. The following table provides information, at December 31, 2012, regarding the securities authorized for issuance under MetLife, Inc. s equity compensation plans:   
    Equity Compensation Plan Information at December 31, 2012     

(1)  
    Includes the MetLife, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan (the  2000 Stock Plan ) and the MetLife, Inc. 2000 Directors Stock Plan (the
 2000 Directors Stock Plan ), each of which was approved by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ), the sole shareholder of MetLife, Inc. at the time of approval. The policyholders of MLIC entitled to vote on its plan
of reorganization (the  Plan of Reorganization ) approved the Plan of Reorganization, which included both the 2000 Stock Plan and the 2000 Directors Stock Plan. The policyholders entitled to so vote received a summary description of each
plan, including the applicable limits on the number of shares of common stock of MetLife, Inc. ( Shares ) available for issuance under each plan. Also includes the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  2005
Stock Plan ) and the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Non-Management Director Stock Compensation Plan (the  2005 Directors Stock Plan ), which were approved by MetLife, Inc. security holders.      

(2)  
    As of December 31, 2012, awards of Stock Options remained outstanding under the 2000 Stock Plan and 2000 Directors Stock Plan, and awards
of Stock Options, Performance Shares, and Restricted Stock Units (each as defined in the 2005 Stock Plan) remained outstanding under the 2005 Stock Plan. In addition, as of December 31, 2012, a number of Shares that had vested and become
payable from any awards under any plan, but had been deferred, remained deferred and unpaid ( Deferred Shares ). For a general description of how the number of Shares paid out on account of Performance Shares and Restricted Stock Units is
determined, and the vesting periods applicable to Performance Shares, Restricted Stock Units, and awards under the 2005 Directors Stock Plan, see Note 16 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      

(3)  
    Column (b) reflects the weighted average exercise price of all Stock Options under any plan that, as of December 31, 2012, had been
granted but not forfeited, expired, or exercised. Performance Shares, Restricted Stock Units, and Deferred Shares are not included in determining the weighted average in column (b) because they have no exercise price.

403

Table of Contents  

the 2000 Stock Plan, or that, under the Plan of Reorganization, would otherwise have reduced the number of Shares available for issuance under the 2000 Stock Plan, from the time the 2005 Stock
Plan became effective to December 31, 2012, were also available for issuance under the 2005 Stock Plan. The aggregate number of Shares available for issuance under the 2005 Directors Stock Plan is 2,000,000. Share awards to Directors under
the 2000 Directors Stock Plan were made under a separate Share award authorization under that plan, and have not reduced the number of Shares remaining available for issuance under any plan as of December 31, 2012.      
  Each Share issued under the 2005 Stock Plan in connection with awards other than Stock Options or Stock Appreciation
Rights (including Shares payable on account of Performance Shares or Restricted Stock Units) reduces the number of Shares remaining for issuance under the 2005 Stock Plan by 1.179 Shares. Each Share issued under the 2005 Stock Plan in connection
with a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right reduces the number of Shares remaining for issuance under the 2005 Stock Plan by 1.0.      Under both the 2005 Stock Plan and the 2005 Directors Stock Plan, in the event of a corporate event or transaction (including, but not limited to, a change in the Shares or the capitalization of
MetLife, Inc.) such as a merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, separation, stock dividend, extraordinary dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split up, spin-off, or other distribution of stock or property of MetLife, Inc.,
combination of securities, exchange of securities, dividend in kind, or other like change in capital structure or distribution (other than normal cash dividends) to shareholders of MetLife, Inc., or any similar corporate event or transaction, the
appropriate committee of the Board of Directors of MetLife, Inc. (each, a  Committee ), in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of participants  rights under the applicable plan, shall in its sole discretion substitute or adjust,
as applicable, the number and kind of Shares that may be issued under that plan and shall adjust the number and kind of Shares subject to outstanding awards. Any Shares related to awards under either plan which: (i) terminate by expiration,
forfeiture, cancellation, or otherwise without the issuance of Shares; (ii) are settled in cash either in lieu of Shares or otherwise; or (iii) are exchanged with the appropriate Committee s permission for awards not involving Shares,
are available again for grant under the applicable plan. If the option price of any Stock Option granted under either plan or the tax withholding requirements with respect to any award granted under either plan are satisfied by tendering Shares to
MetLife, Inc. (by either actual delivery or by attestation), or if a Stock Appreciation Right is exercised, only the number of Shares issued, net of the Shares tendered, if any, will be deemed delivered for purposes of determining the maximum number
of Shares available for issuance under that plan. The maximum number of Shares available for issuance under either plan shall not be reduced to reflect any dividends or dividend equivalents that are reinvested into additional Shares or credited as
additional Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, or Stock-Based Awards.      For a description of the kinds of
awards that may made under the 2005 Stock Plan and 2005 Directors Stock Plan, see Note 16 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.         Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    
  The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Corporate
Governance   Procedures for Reviewing Related Person Transactions,   Corporate Governance   Related Person Transactions  and  Corporate Governance   Information About the Board of
Directors 
  Composition and Independence of the Board of Directors  in the 2013 Proxy Statement.         Item 14.
        Principal Accountant Fees and Services       The information called for by
this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled  Proposal 2   Ratification of Appointment of the Independent Auditor  in the 2013 Proxy Statement.   
         404

Table of Contents  

    Part IV          Item 15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules       The following documents are filed as part of this report:      1. Financial Statements      The financial statements are listed
in the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules on page 186.   
  2. Financial Statement Schedules   
  The financial statement schedules are listed in the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules on
page 186.      3. Exhibits   
  The exhibits are listed in the Exhibit Index which begins on page E-1.   
         405

Table of Contents  

      Signatures    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.      February 26, 2013   

METLIFE, INC.   

By      
     
    /s/ Steven A. Kandarian    

Name: Steven A. Kandarian   

Title:    Chairman of the Board, President               and Chief Executive
Officer    
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       
 
         406

Table of Contents  

Signature    
      
     Title    
     
     Date     

/s/ Steven A. Kandarian  
  Steven A. Kandarian   
      
  Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)  
     
  February 26, 2013   

/s/ John C. R. Hele  
  John C. R. Hele   
      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)  
     
  February 26, 2013   

/s/ Peter M. Carlson  
  Peter M. Carlson   
      
  Executive Vice President, Finance Operations and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)  
     
  February 26, 2013   
 
         407

Table of Contents  

      Exhibit Index    
   (   Note Regarding Reliance on Statements in Our Contracts:    In reviewing the agreements included as
exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, please remember that they are included to provide you with information regarding their terms and are not intended to provide any other factual or disclosure information about MetLife, Inc., its
subsidiaries or affiliates, or the other parties to the agreements. The agreements contain representations and warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement. These representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit
of the other parties to the applicable agreement and (i) should not in all instances be treated as categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk to one of the parties if those statements prove to be inaccurate; (ii) have
been qualified by disclosures that were made to the other party in connection with the negotiation of the applicable agreement, which disclosures are not necessarily reflected in the agreement; (iii) may apply standards of materiality in a way that
is different from what may be viewed as material to investors; and (iv) were made only as of the date of the applicable agreement or such other date or dates as may be specified in the agreement and are subject to more recent developments.
Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time. Additional information about MetLife, Inc., its subsidiaries and affiliates may be found elsewhere in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K and MetLife, Inc. s other public filings, which are available without charge through the SEC s website at www.sec.gov.)        

Exhibit No.    
     
     Description     

2.1  
     
    Plan of Reorganization. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No. 333-91517) (the  S-1
Registration Statement )).    

2.2  
     
    Amendment to Plan of Reorganization, dated as of March 9, 2000. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the S-1 Registration
Statement).    

2.3  
     
    Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 7, 2010, among MetLife, Inc., AM Holdings LLC (formerly known as ALICO Holdings LLC) and American International
Group, Inc. ( AIG ) (the  Stock Purchase Agreement ). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 11, 2010 (the  March 11, 2010 Form
8-K )).    

2.4  
     
    Amendment, dated October 28, 2010, among MetLife, Inc., AM Holdings LLC (formerly known as ALICO Holdings LLC) and AIG to the Stock Purchase Agreement.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 2, 2010 (the  November 2, 2010 Form 8-K )).    

2.5  
     
    Amendment, dated October 29, 2010, among MetLife, Inc., AM Holdings LLC (formerly known as ALICO Holdings LLC) and AIG to the Stock Purchase Agreement.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the November 2, 2010 Form 8-K).    

3.1  
     
    Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of MetLife, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 (the  2011 Annual Report )).    

3.2  
     
    Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of MetLife, Inc., filed with the Secretary of State of
Delaware on April 7, 2000. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the 2011 Annual Report).    

3.3  
     
    Certificate of Designations of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, of MetLife, Inc., filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on June
10, 2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to the 2011 Annual Report).    

3.4  
     
    Certificate of Designations of 6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B, of MetLife, Inc., filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on June 14, 2005.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.4 to the 2011 Annual Report).     
         E-1

Table of Contents  

Exhibit No.    
     
     Description     

3.5  
     
    Certificate of Amendment of Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of MetLife, Inc., dated April 29, 2011. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.6
to the 2011 Annual Report).    

3.6  
     
    Amended and Restated By-Laws of MetLife, Inc., effective June 20, 2011. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current Report on Form
8-K dated June 23, 2011).    

4.1(a)  
     
    Indenture, dated as of November 9, 2001, between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to J.P. Morgan Trust
Company, National Association (as successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A.)), as trustee, relating to Senior Debt Securities. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1(a) to the 2011 Annual Report).    

4.1(b)  
     
    Form of Indenture for Senior Debt Securities between MetLife, Inc. and one or more banking institutions to be qualified as Trustee pursuant to Section 305(b)(2)
of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1(a), except for the name of the trustee).    

4.2  
     
    Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 10, 2002, between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest
to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (as successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A.)), as trustee, relating to the 6.50% Senior Notes due December 15, 2032.    

4.3  
     
    Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 21, 2003, between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest
to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association), as trustee, relating to the 5.875% Senior Notes due November 21, 2033. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to MetLife, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2008 (the  2008 Annual Report )).    

4.4  
     
    Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 24, 2003, between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest
to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association), as trustee, relating to the 5.00% Senior Notes due November 24, 2013. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the 2008 Annual Report).    

4.5  
     
    Seventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 3, 2004, between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to
J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association), as trustee, relating to the 5.50% Senior Notes due June 15, 2014. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to MetLife, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2009 (the  2009 Annual Report )).    

4.6  
     
    Eighth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 3, 2004, between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to
J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association), as trustee, relating to the 6.375% Senior Notes due June 15, 2034. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the 2009 Annual Report).    

4.7  
     
    Ninth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 23, 2004, between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to
J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association), as trustee, relating to the 5.50% Senior Notes due June 15, 2014. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.9 to the 2009 Annual Report).    

4.8  
     
    Tenth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 23, 2004, between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to
J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association), as trustee, relating to the 6.375% Senior Notes due June 15, 2034. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.10 to the 2009 Annual Report).    

4.9  
     
    Eleventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 9, 2004, between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in
interest to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association), as trustee, relating to the 5.375% Senior Notes due December 9, 2024. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.11 to the 2009 Annual
Report).     
         E-2

Table of Contents  

E-3

Table of Contents  

E-4

Table of Contents  

Exhibit No.    
     
     Description     

4.41  
     
    Form of 4.125% Senior Note due August 13, 2042. (Included in Exhibit 4.21. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the August 13, 2012 Form
8-K).    

4.42(a)  
     
    Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005, between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to J.P. Morgan Trust
Company, National Association), as trustee, relating to Subordinated Debt Securities (the  Subordinated Indenture ). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.41(a) to the 2010 Annual Report).    

4.42(b)  
     
    Form of Indenture for Subordinated Debt Securities between MetLife, Inc. and one or more banking institutions to be qualified as Trustee pursuant to Section
305(b)(2) of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.42(a), except for the name of the trustee).    

4.43  
     
    First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005, to the Subordinated Indenture (the  First Supplemental Indenture ) between MetLife, Inc. and
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association), as trustee, relating to the 4.82% Junior Subordinated Debt Securities, Series A, due February 15, 2039 (the  Series A
Debentures ). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.42 to the 2010 Annual Report).    

4.44  
     
    Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005, to the Subordinated Indenture (the  Second Supplemental Indenture ) between MetLife, Inc. and
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association), as trustee, relating to the 4.91% Junior Subordinated Debt Securities, Series B, due February 15, 2040 (the  Series B
Debentures ). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.43 to the 2010 Annual Report).    

4.45  
     
    Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 21, 2006, to the Subordinated Indenture between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company,
N.A., as trustee, relating to the 6.40% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due December 15, 2066. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.45 to the 2011 Annual Report).    

4.46  
     
    Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 7, 2008, to the Subordinated Indenture between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company,
N.A., as trustee, amending the First Supplemental Indenture, relating to the 6.817% Senior Debt Securities, Series A, due 2018. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 8,
2008).    

4.47  
     
    Seventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 6, 2009, to the Subordinated Indenture between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company,
N.A., as trustee, amending the Second Supplemental Indenture, relating to the 7.717% Senior Debt Securities, Series B, due 2019. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 9,
2009).    

4.48  
     
    Eighth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 8, 2009, to the Subordinated Indenture between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.,
as trustee, relating to the 10.750% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due August 1, 2069. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 8, 2009 (the  July 8,
2009 Form 8-K )).    

4.49  
     
    Form of Series A Debenture. (Included in Exhibit 4.43. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.48 to the 2010 Annual Report).    

4.50  
     
    Form of Series B Debenture. (Included in Exhibit 4.44. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.49 to the 2010 Annual Report).    

4.51  
     
    Form of 6.40% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debenture due December 15, 2066. (Included in Exhibit 4.45. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.51 to
the 2011 Annual Report).     
         E-5

Table of Contents  

E-6

Table of Contents  

E-7

Table of Contents  

E-8

Table of Contents  

E-9

Table of Contents  

E-10

Table of Contents  

E-11

Table of Contents  

E-12

Table of Contents  

E-13

Table of Contents  

E-14

Table of Contents  

Exhibit       No.    
     
     Description     

23.1  
     
  Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP.   

31.1  
     
  Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

31.2  
     
  Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

32.1  
     
  Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

32.2  
     
  Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

101.INS  
     
  XBRL Instance Document.   

101.SCH  
     
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.   

101.CAL  
     
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.   

101.LAB  
     
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.   

101.PRE  
     
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.   

101.DEF  
     
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.   

*  
    Indicates management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.      

**  
    Indicates document to be filed as an exhibit to a Current Report on Form 8-K or Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q pursuant to Item 601 of Regulation S-K
and incorporated herein by reference.      
         E-15

<EX-4.2>
 2
 d450627dex42.htm
 EX-4.2

Ex-4.2 

EXHIBIT 4.2       METLIFE, INC.,      ISSUER   
  AND      BANK ONE
TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,      TRUSTEE        
       FOURTH
SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE      DATED AS OF DECEMBER 10, 2002   
         
  $600,000,000   
  6.50% SENIOR NOTES   
  DUE DECEMBER 15, 2032   

TABLE OF CONTENTS (1)   
  ARTICLE I      6.50%
SENIOR NOTES DUE DECEMBER 15, 2032       

(1)  
  This Table of Contents does not constitute part of the Fourth Supplemental Indenture and shall not have any bearing upon the interpretation of any of its terms or
provisions.     
         2   

THIS FOURTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE is made as of the 10th day of December, 2002, by and
between METLIFE, INC., a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), and Bank One Trust Company, N.A., a national banking corporation, as trustee (the  Trustee ):   
  WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore entered into an Indenture, dated as of November 9, 2001 (the  Original Indenture )
with the Trustee;      WHEREAS, the Original Indenture is incorporated herein by this reference and the Original Indenture, as
supplemented by this Fourth Supplemental Indenture, is herein called the  Indenture       WHEREAS, under the Original
Indenture, a new series of senior notes may at any time be established by the Board of Directors of the Company in accordance with the provisions of the Original Indenture and the terms of such series may be described by a supplemental indenture
executed by the Company and the Trustee;      WHEREAS, the Company proposes to create under the Indenture a new series of senior
notes;      WHEREAS, additional senior notes of other series hereafter established, except as may be limited in the Original
Indenture as at the time supplemented and modified, may be issued from time to time pursuant to the Indenture as at the time supplemented and modified; and      WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Fourth Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.   
  NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the
sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:      ARTICLE I   
  6.50% SENIOR NOTES DUE DECEMBER 15, 2032      SECTION 1.01. Establishment.      There is hereby established a new series of senior
notes to be issued under the Indenture, to be designated as the Company s 6.50% Senior Notes due December 15, 2032 (the  2032 Senior Notes ).   
         3   

There are to be authenticated and delivered 2032 Senior Notes, initially limited in
aggregate principal amount of $600,000,000, and no further 2032 Senior Notes shall be authenticated and delivered except as provided by Section 2.05, 2.07, 2.11, 3.03 or 9.04 of the Original Indenture; provided, however, that the aggregate
principal amount of the 2032 Senior Notes may be increased in the future, without the consent of the holders of the 2032 Senior Notes, on the same terms and with the same CUSIP and ISIN numbers as the 2032 Senior Notes. The 2032 Senior Notes shall
be issued in fully registered form.      The 2032 Senior Notes shall be issued in the form of one or more Global Securities in
substantially the form set out in Exhibit A hereto. The Depositary with respect to the 2032 Senior Notes shall be The Depository Trust Company.      The form of the Trustee s Certificate of Authentication for the 2032 Senior Notes shall be substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit B hereto.   
  Each 2032 Senior Note shall be dated the date of authentication thereof and shall bear interest from the date of original issuance
thereof or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for.      SECTION 1.02. Definitions.
     The following defined terms used herein shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the meanings specified below.
Capitalized terms used herein for which no definition is provided herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Original Indenture.       Interest Payment Date  means June 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing June 15, 2003.       Original Issue Date  means December 10, 2002.       Regular
Record Date  means, with respect to each Interest Payment Date, the close of business on the preceding June 1 or December 1, as the case may be.       Stated Maturity  means December 15, 2032.      SECTION 1.03. Payment of Principal and
Interest.      The principal of the 2032 Senior Notes shall be due at Stated Maturity. The unpaid principal amount of the 2032
Senior Notes shall bear interest at the rate of 6.50% per year until paid or duly provided for. Interest shall be paid semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date, commencing June 15, 2003, to the Person in whose name the 2032
Senior Notes are registered on the Regular Record Date for such Interest Payment Date, provided that interest payable at the Stated Maturity of principal will be paid to the Person to whom principal is payable. Any such interest that is not so
punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the holders on such Regular Record Date and may be paid as provided in Section 4.01 of the Original Indenture.   
         4   

Payments of interest on the 2032 Senior Notes will include interest accrued to but excluding
the respective Interest Payment Dates. Interest payments for the 2032 Senior Notes shall be computed and paid on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. In the event that any date on which interest is payable on the 2032
Senior Notes is not a Business Day, then a payment of the interest payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, except that, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, such payment shall be
made on the immediately preceding Business Day, in each case with the same force and effect as if made on the date the payment was originally payable.      Payment of the principal and interest due at the Stated Maturity of the 2032 Senior Notes shall be made upon surrender of the 2032 Senior Notes at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee. The principal
of and interest on the 2032 Senior Notes shall be paid in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. Payments of interest (including interest on any
Interest Payment Date) will be made, subject to such surrender where applicable, at the option of the Company, (i) by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register or
(ii) by wire transfer at such place and to such account at a banking institution in the United States as may be designated in writing to the Trustee at least 15 days prior to the date for payment by the Person entitled thereto.   
  SECTION 1.04. Denominations.   
  The 2032 Senior Notes may be issued in denominations of $1,000, or any integral multiple thereof.   
  SECTION 1.05. Global Securities.   
  The 2032 Senior Notes will be issued in the form of one or more Global Securities registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee.
Except under the limited circumstances described below, 2032 Senior Notes represented by Global Securities will not be exchangeable for, and will not otherwise be issuable as, 2032 Senior Notes in definitive form. The Global Securities described
above may not be transferred except by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or to a successor Depositary or its nominee.   
  Owners of beneficial interests in such Global Securities will not be considered the holders thereof for any purpose under the Indenture,
and no Global Security representing a 2032 Senior Note shall be exchangeable, except for another Global Security of like denomination and tenor to be registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee or to a successor Depositary or its
nominee. The rights of holders of such Global Securities shall be exercised only through the Depositary.      A Global Security
shall be exchangeable for 2032 Senior Notes registered in the names of Persons other than the Depositary or its nominee only as provided by Section 2.11(c) of the Original Indenture. Any Global Security that is exchangeable pursuant to the
preceding sentence shall be exchangeable for 2032 Senior Notes registered in such names as the Depositary shall direct.   
         5   

SECTION 1.06. Transfer.      No service charge will be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of 2032 Senior Notes, but payment will be required of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be
imposed in connection therewith.      SECTION 1.07. Defeasance.      The provisions of Sections 13.02 and 13.03 of the Original Indenture will apply to the 2032 Senior Notes.      SECTION 1.08. Redemption at the Option of the Company.      The 2032 Senior Notes will
be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time (a  Redemption Date ), at a redemption price (the  Redemption Price ) equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the 2032 Senior
Notes to be redeemed and (ii) an amount equal to the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments for principal and interest on the 2032 Senior Notes to be redeemed, not including any portion of the payments of interest accrued
as of such Redemption Date, discounted to such Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate, plus 20 basis points; plus in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the 2032
Senior Notes to be redeemed to such Redemption Date.       Treasury Rate  means the rate per year equal to the
semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption
Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.       Comparable
Treasury Issue  means the United States Treasury security selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the 2032 Senior Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of
selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the 2032 Senior Notes.   
   Independent Investment Banker  means either Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated or Wachovia
Securities, Inc., as specified by the Company, and any successor firm or, if such firm is unwilling or unable to select the Comparable Treasury Issue, an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Trustee after
consultation with the Company.   
         6   

Comparable Treasury Price  means with respect to any Redemption Date for the 2032
Senior Notes (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than five such
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.       Reference Treasury Dealer  means each of
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated, Wachovia Securities, Inc. and three other primary U.S. government securities dealers (each a  Primary Treasury Dealer ), as specified by the Company; provided that (1) if
any of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated, Wachovia Securities, Inc. or any Primary Treasury Dealer as specified by the Company shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company will substitute therefor another
Primary Treasury Dealer and (2) if the Company fails to select a substitute within a reasonable period of time, then the substitute will be a Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.   
   Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations  means, with respect to the Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the
average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m.,
New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.      Notwithstanding Section 3.02 of the
Original Indenture, the notice of redemption with respect to the foregoing redemption need not set forth the Redemption Price but only the manner of calculation thereof.      The Company shall notify the Trustee of the Redemption Price with respect to the foregoing redemption promptly after the calculation thereof. The Trustee shall not be responsible for calculating said
Redemption Price.      If less than all of the 2032 Senior Notes are to be redeemed, the Trustee shall select the 2032 Senior
Notes or portions of the 2032 Senior Notes to be redeemed by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate. The Trustee may select for redemption 2032 Senior Notes and portions of 2032 Senior Notes in amounts of whole multiples of
$1,000.      ARTICLE II      MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS      SECTION 2.01. Recitals by the Company.   
  The recitals in this Fourth Supplemental Indenture are made by the Company only and not by the Trustee, and all of the provisions
contained in the Original Indenture in respect of the rights, privileges, immunities, powers and duties of the Trustee shall be applicable in respect of the 2032 Senior Notes and of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture as fully and with like effect as
if set forth herein in full.   
         7   

SECTION 2.02. Ratification and Incorporation of Original Indenture.   
  As supplemented hereby, the Original Indenture is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and the Original Indenture and this Fourth
Supplemental Indenture shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.      SECTION 2.03. Executed in Counterparts.   
  This Fourth Supplemental Indenture may be simultaneously executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an
original, and such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.   
         8   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each party hereto has caused this instrument to be signed in its name
and behalf by its duly authorized officers, all as of the day and year first above written.        

METLIFE, INC.   

By:  
     
  /s/: Anthony J. Williamson   

Name: Anthony J. Williamson   

Title: SVP and Treasurer   

BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.   

By:  
     
  /s/: Mary R. Fonti   

Name: Mary R. Fonti   

Title: Vice-President   

9   

EXHIBIT A      FORM OF 6.50% SENIOR NOTE DUE DECEMBER 15, 2032      THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY
WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE ORIGINAL INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY ( DTC ), A NEW YORK CORPORATION, TO METLIFE, INC. OR ITS AGENT FOR
REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE   CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE   CO.
OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE   CO., HAS AN
INTEREST HEREIN.      EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN SECTION 2.11 OF THE ORIGINAL INDENTURE, THIS NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED IN
WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, ONLY TO ANOTHER NOMINEE OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR TO A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY.       
    METLIFE, INC.      6.50% Senior Note      Due December 15, 2032   

10   

MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the  Company,  which term includes any
successor corporation under the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE   CO., or registered assigns, the principal sum of
               ($              ) on the Stated Maturity shown above, and to pay interest thereon from the Original
Issue Date shown above, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date as specified above, commencing on June 15, 2003, and on the
Stated Maturity at the rate per year shown above until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment and on any overdue principal and on any overdue installment of interest to the extent permitted by law. The interest so payable, and
punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (other than an Interest Payment Date that is the Stated Maturity) will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of
business on the Regular Record Date as specified above next preceding such Interest Payment Date, provided that any interest payable at Stated Maturity will be paid to the Person to whom principal is payable. Any such interest that is not so
punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the holders on such Regular Record Date and may be paid as provided in Section 4.01 of the Original Indenture.   
  Payments of interest on this Note will include interest accrued to but excluding the respective Interest Payment Dates. Interest payments
for this Note shall be computed and paid on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. In the event that any date on which interest is payable on this Note is not a Business Day, then payment of the interest payable on such date
will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, except that, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, payment shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day, in each case with the same force and effect
as if made on the date the payment was originally payable.      Payment of the principal of and interest due at the Stated
Maturity of this Note shall be made upon surrender of this Note at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee. The principal of and interest on this Note shall be paid in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment
is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. Payment of interest (including interest on an Interest Payment Date) will be made, subject to such surrender where applicable, at the option of the Company, (i) by check mailed to the
address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register or (ii) by wire transfer at such place and to such account at a banking institution in the United States as may be designated in writing to the Trustee
at least 15 days prior to the date for payment by the Person entitled thereto.      The Senior Notes (as defined on the reverse
hereof) will be senior unsecured obligations of the Company and will rank equally in right of payment with all of the other senior unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company from time to time outstanding. The Senior Notes will rank
senior to any subordinated indebtedness of the Company.   
         11   

REFERENCE IS HEREBY MADE TO THE FURTHER PROVISIONS OF THIS NOTE SET FORTH ON THE REVERSE
HEREOF, WHICH FURTHER PROVISIONS SHALL FOR ALL PURPOSES HAVE THE SAME EFFECT AS IF SET FORTH AT THIS PLACE.      Unless the
certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.   
         12   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its
corporate seal.        

METLIFE, INC.    

By:  

Name:   

Title:   

Attest:   

Name:   

Title:   
    [Seal of MetLife, Inc.]      CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION      This is one of the 6.50% Senior Notes due
December 15, 2032 referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.        

BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,     as Trustee    

By:  

Authorized Officer   

13   

(Reverse Side of Note)   
  This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of senior notes of the Company issued and issuable in one or more series under an Indenture
dated as of November 9, 2001 (the  Original Indenture ), as supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 10, 2002 (the  Fourth Supplemental Indenture,  and together with the Original
Indenture, the  Indenture ), between the Company and Bank One Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (the  Trustee,  which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures incidental
thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the Senior Notes issued thereunder and of the terms upon which said
Senior Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Senior Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof as 6.50% Senior Notes due December 15, 2032 (the  Senior Notes ), initially limited in aggregate
principal amount of $600,000,000; provided, however, that the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes may be increased in the future, without the consent of the holders of the Senior Notes, on the same terms and with the same CUSIP and ISIN
numbers as the Senior Notes. Capitalized terms used herein for which no definition is provided herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Indenture.      This Note is exchangeable in whole or from time to time in part for Senior Notes of this series in definitive registered form only as provided herein and in the Indenture. If (i) at any time the
Depositary notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for this Note or if at any time the Depositary shall no longer be registered or in good standing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or other
applicable statute or regulation, and the Company does not appoint a successor Depositary within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such condition, as the case may be, or (ii) the Company in its sole discretion
determines that this Note shall be exchangeable for Senior Notes of this series in definitive registered form and executes and delivers to the Security Registrar a written order of the Company providing that this Note shall be so exchangeable, this
Note shall be exchangeable for Senior Notes of this series in definitive registered form, provided that the definitive Senior Notes so issued in exchange for this Note shall be in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiples, without coupons,
and be of like aggregate principal amount and tenor as the portion of this Note to be exchanged. Except as provided above, owners of beneficial interests in this Note will not be entitled to have Senior Notes registered in their names, will not
receive or be entitled to physical delivery of Senior Notes in definitive registered form and will not be considered the holders thereof for any purpose under the Indenture. Neither the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent nor the Security
Registrar shall have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests in this Note, or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such
beneficial ownership interests.      If an Event of Default with respect to the Senior Notes shall occur and be continuing, the
principal of the Senior Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the Indenture.   
         14   

The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof
and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the holders of the Senior Notes under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the holders of not less than a majority in
aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes at the time Outstanding. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Senior Notes at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the holders
of all Senior Notes, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the holder of this Note shall be conclusive and
binding upon such holder and upon all future holders of this Note and of any Senior Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this
Note.      The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company
pursuant to this Note and (b) restrictive covenants and the related Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Note.   
  The Senior Notes will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time (a  Redemption Date ), at a
redemption price (the  Redemption Price ) equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes to be redeemed and (ii) an amount equal to the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments
for principal and interest on the Senior Notes to be redeemed, not including any portion of the payments of interest accrued as of such Redemption Date, discounted to such Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of
twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate, plus 20 basis points; plus in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the Senior Notes to be redeemed to such Redemption Date.       Treasury Rate  means the rate per year equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue
(expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.   
   Comparable Treasury Issue  means the United States Treasury security selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a
maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Senior Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable
maturity to the remaining term of the Senior Notes.       Independent Investment Banker  means either Merrill Lynch,
Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated or Wachovia Securities, Inc., as specified by the Company, and any successor firm or, if such firm is unwilling or unable to select the Comparable Treasury Issue, an independent investment banking
institution of national standing appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.   
         15   

Comparable Treasury Price  means with respect to any Redemption Date for the
Senior Notes (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than five such
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.       Reference Treasury Dealer  means each of
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated, Wachovia Securities, Inc., and three other primary U.S. government securities dealers (each a  Primary Treasury Dealer ), as specified by the Company; provided that (1) if
any of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated, Wachovia Securities, Inc. or any Primary Treasury Dealer as specified by the Company shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company will substitute therefor another
Primary Treasury Dealer and (2) if the Company fails to select a substitute within a reasonable period of time, then the substitute will be a Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.   
   Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations  means, with respect to the Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the
average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m.,
New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.      Notwithstanding Section 3.02 of the
Original Indenture, the notice of redemption with respect to the foregoing redemption need not set forth the Redemption Price but only the manner of calculation thereof.      The Company shall notify the Trustee of the Redemption Price with respect to the foregoing redemption promptly after the calculation thereof. The Trustee shall not be responsible for calculating said
Redemption Price.      If less than all of the Senior Notes are to be redeemed, the Trustee will select the Senior Notes or
portions of Senior Notes to be redeemed by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate. The Trustee may select for redemption Senior Notes and portions of Senior Notes in amounts of whole multiples of $1,000.   
  No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the
Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at the time, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.      As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Note for   
         16   

registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company for such purpose, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company or the
Security Registrar and duly executed by, the holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Senior Notes, of authorized denominations and of like tenor and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be
issued to the designated transferee or transferees. No service charge shall be made for any such exchange or registration of transfer, but the Company will require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in
connection therewith.      Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee, any
Paying Agent and the Security Registrar of the Company or the Trustee may deem and treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the absolute owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue and notwithstanding any
notice of ownership or writing thereon made by anyone other than the Security Registrar, and neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any Paying Agent nor the Security Registrar shall be affected by notice to the contrary.   
  The Senior Notes are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. As
provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Senior Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the holder surrendering the
same upon surrender of the Senior Note or Senior Notes to be exchanged at the office or agency of the Company.      No recourse
shall be had for payment of the principal of or interest on this Note, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect hereof, or based on or in respect of the Indenture, against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, past,
present or future, as such, of the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being, by
the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issuance hereof, expressly waived and released.      Unless the
certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.   
  This Note shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the internal laws of the state of New York.   
         17   

ABBREVIATIONS      The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:

TEN COM as tenants in common under  

UNIF GIFT MIN ACT Custodian   

Uniform Gift to Minors Act   

(State)    
 
  TEN  ENT   as tenants by the entireties  

JT TEN    as joint tenants with right of   

survivorship and not as     tenants in common   

Additional abbreviations may also be used   
  though not on the above list.   
  FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s) and transfer(s) unto      PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS, INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF ASSIGNEE       

(please insert Social Security or other identifying number of assignee)      the within Note and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing       
       
      agent to transfer said Note on the books of the
Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.       

Dated:

NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the within instrument in every particular without alteration or enlargement, or
any change whatever.   
 
         18   

EXHIBIT B      CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION      This is one of the 6.50% Senior Notes due December 15, 2032
referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.        

BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,     as Trustee    

By:  

Authorized Officer   

19   

</EX-4.2>

<EX-4.82>
 3
 d450627dex482.htm
 EX-4.82

Ex-4.82 

Exhibit 4.82       Execution Version      R EPLACEMENT  C APITAL 
C OVENANT        by       M ET L IFE , I NC .       dated as of
December 12, 2007    

R EPLACEMENT  C APITAL  C OVENANT , dated as of
December 12, 2007 (this   Replacement Capital Covenant  ), by MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the   Corporation  ), in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered
Debtholder (as defined below).       RECITALS       (A) On the date hereof, the Corporation is issuing $700,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 7.875 % Fixed-to-Floating Rate Exchangeable Surplus Trust Securities (the
  X-SURPS  ) automatically exchangeable in specified circumstances into 7.875 % Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2067 (the   Junior Subordinated Debentures  ). In this Replacement Capital
Covenant, the term   Securities   refers to the X-SURPS prior to an Exchange and the Junior Subordinated Debentures thereafter.      (B) This Replacement Capital Covenant is the    Replacement Capital Covenant    referred to in the Offering Circular, dated December 5, 2007, relating to the Securities (the
  Offering Circular  ).      (C) The Corporation is entering into and disclosing the content of this
Replacement Capital Covenant in the manner provided below with the intent that the covenants provided for in this Replacement Capital Covenant be enforceable by each Covered Debtholder and that the Corporation be estopped from disregarding the
covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant, in each case to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.      (D) The
Corporation acknowledges that reliance by each Covered Debtholder upon the covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant is reasonable and foreseeable by the Corporation and that, were the Corporation to disregard its covenants in this Replacement
Capital Covenant, each Covered Debtholder would have sustained an injury as a result of its reliance on such covenants.   
  N OW , T HEREFORE , the Corporation hereby covenants and agrees as follows in favor of and for the benefit of
each Covered Debtholder.      1. D EFINITIONS . Capitalized terms used in this Replacement Capital Covenant
(including the Recitals) have the respective meanings set forth in Schedule I hereto.      2. L IMITATIONS 
 ON  R EPAYMENT , R EDEMPTION   AND  P URCHASE   OF  J UNIOR  S UBORDINATED  D EBENTURES . The Corporation hereby promises and
covenants to and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder that the Corporation shall not repay, redeem or purchase (for the avoidance of doubt, any reference in this Replacement Capital Covenant to any repayment of the Corporation s
securities will be deemed to include a reference to defeasance of the Corporation s obligations under the securities), and will cause its Subsidiaries not to repay, redeem or purchase and shall not permit to be repaid, redeemed or repurchased,
as applicable, the Securities on or before December 15, 2057, except to the extent that the principal amount repaid or the applicable redemption, repayment or purchase price does not exceed the Applicable Percentage of the aggregate amount of
net cash proceeds received by the Corporation and its Subsidiaries since the most recent Measurement Date (without double counting proceeds received   
         2   

in any prior Measurement Period) from the sale of Common Stock, rights to acquire Common Stock, Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, Debt Exchangeable for Common Equity, Debt Exchangeable for
Preferred Equity and Qualifying Capital Securities (collectively,   Replacement Capital Securities  ).      3.
C OVERED  D EBT .      (a) The Corporation represents and warrants that the Initial Covered Debt is
Eligible Debt.      (b) On or during the 30-day period immediately preceding any Redesignation Date with respect to the
Covered Debt then in effect, the Corporation shall identify the series of Eligible Debt that will become the Covered Debt on and after such Redesignation Date in accordance with the following procedures:   
  (i) the Corporation shall identify each series of its then outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt;
     (ii) if only one series of the Corporation s then outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed is Eligible
Debt, such series shall become the Covered Debt commencing on the related Redesignation Date;      (iii) if the Corporation has
more than one outstanding series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt, then the Corporation shall identify the series that has the latest stated final maturity date as of the date the Corporation is applying the
procedures in this Section 3(b) and such series shall become the Covered Debt on the related Redesignation Date;      (iv)
the series of outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is determined to be Covered Debt pursuant to this Section 3(b) shall be the Covered Debt for purposes of this Replacement Capital Covenant for the period commencing on the
related Redesignation Date and continuing to but not including the Redesignation Date as of which a new series of outstanding long-term indebtedness is next determined to be the Covered Debt pursuant to the procedures set forth in this
Section 3(b); and      (v) in connection with such identification of a new series of Covered Debt, the Corporation shall, as
provided for in Section 3(c), give a notice and file with the Commission a current report on Form 8-K including or incorporating by reference this Replacement Capital Covenant as an exhibit within the time frame provided for in such section.
     (c) In order to give effect to the intent of the Corporation described in Recital C, the Corporation covenants that
(i) simultaneously with the execution of this Replacement Capital Covenant or as soon as practicable after the date hereof, it shall (A) give notice to the holders of the Initial Covered Debt, in the manner provided in the indenture
relating to the Initial Covered Debt, of this Replacement Capital Covenant and the rights granted to such holders hereunder and (B) file a copy of this Replacement Capital Covenant with the Commission as an exhibit to a current report on Form
8-K (or any successor form) under the Exchange Act; (ii) so long as the Corporation is a   
         3   

reporting company under the Exchange Act, the Corporation will include in each annual report filed with the Commission on Form 10-K (or any successor form) under the Exchange Act a description of
the covenant set forth in Section 2 and identify the series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is Covered Debt as of the date such annual report on Form 10-K (or any successor form) is filed with the Commission; (iii) if a
series of the Corporation s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed (A) becomes Covered Debt or (B) ceases to be Covered Debt pursuant to the procedures set forth in Section 3(b), the Corporation shall give notice of such
occurrence within 30 days to the holders of such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed in the manner provided for in the indenture, fiscal agency agreement or other instrument under which such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed was
issued and report such change in a current report on Form 8-K (or any successor form) including or incorporating by reference this Replacement Capital Covenant, and in the Corporation s next quarterly report on Form 10-Q (or any successor form)
or annual report on Form 10-K (or any successor form), as applicable; (iv) if, and only if, the Corporation ceases to be a reporting company under the Exchange Act, the Corporation shall post on its website (or other similar electronic platform
generally available to the public) the information otherwise required to be included in Exchange Act filings pursuant to clauses (ii) and (iii) of this Section 3(c) and cause a notice of the execution of the Replacement Capital
Covenant to be posted on the Bloomberg screen for the Covered Debt or any successor Bloomberg screen and each similar third-party vendor s screen the Corporation reasonably believes is appropriate (each an   Investor Screen  )
and cause a hyperlink to a definitive copy of this Replacement Capital Covenant to be included on the Investor Screen for each series of Covered Debt, in each case to the extent permitted by Bloomberg or such similar third-party vendor, as the case
may be; and (v) promptly upon request by any holder of Covered Debt, the Corporation shall provide such holder with a conformed copy of this Replacement Capital Covenant.      4. T ERMINATION , A MENDMENT   AND  W AIVER .      (a) The obligations of the Corporation pursuant to this Replacement Capital Covenant shall remain in full force and effect until the earliest (the   Termination Date  ) to occur of
(i) December 15, 2057, or, if earlier, the date on which the Securities are otherwise repaid, redeemed or purchased in full in compliance with this Replacement Capital Covenant, (ii) the date, if any, on which the holders of a
majority in principal amount of the then-effective series of Covered Debt consent or agree in writing to the termination of this Replacement Capital Covenant and the Corporation s obligations hereunder, (iii) the date on which the
Corporation ceases to have any series of outstanding Eligible Senior Debt or Eligible Subordinated Debt (in each case, without giving effect to the rating requirement in clause (b) of the definition of each such term) (iv) the date on
which a JSD Event of Default under the Junior Subordinated Indenture resulting in an acceleration of the Junior Subordinated Debentures occurs, and (v) a Change of Control Event. From and after the Termination Date, the obligations of the
Corporation pursuant to this Replacement Capital Covenant shall be of no further force and effect.      (b) This Replacement
Capital Covenant may be amended or supplemented from time to time with the consent of the holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the then-effective series of Covered Debt. The Corporation may, acting alone and without the consent of
such holders, amend or supplement this Replacement Capital Covenant if (i) the effect of such amendment or supplement is solely to impose additional restrictions on the types of securities   
         4   

qualifying as Replacement Capital Securities, and an officer of the Corporation has delivered to such holders in the manner provided for in the indenture, fiscal agency agreement or other
instrument with respect to such Covered Debt a written certificate to that effect, (ii) such amendment or supplement is not adverse to such holders and one of the Corporation s officers has delivered to such holders in the manner provided
for in the indenture, fiscal agency agreement or other instrument with respect to such holders a written certificate stating that, in his or her determination, such amendment or supplement is not adverse to such Covered Debtholders, or
(iii) such amendment or supplement eliminates Common Stock, rights to acquire Common Stock, Debt Exchangeable for Common Equity and/or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock as Replacement Capital Securities if, after the date of this
Replacement Capital Covenant, an accounting standard or interpretive guidance of an existing accounting standard issued by an organization or regulator that has responsibility for establishing or interpreting accounting standards in the United
States becomes effective such that there is more than an insubstantial risk that failure to eliminate Common Stock, rights to acquire Common Stock, rights to acquire Common Stock, Debt Exchangeable for Common Stock and/or Mandatorily Convertible
Preferred Stock as a Replacement Capital Security would result in a reduction in the Corporation s earnings per share, as calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.   
  (c) For purposes of Sections 4(a) and 4(b), the holders whose consent or agreement is required to terminate, amend or supplement the
obligations of the Corporation under this Replacement Capital Covenant shall be the holders of the then-effective Covered Debt as of a record date established by the Corporation that is not more than 30 days prior to the date on which the
Corporation proposes that such termination, amendment or supplement becomes effective.      5. M ISCELLANEOUS .
     (a) This Replacement Capital Covenant shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New
York.      (b) This Replacement Capital Covenant shall be binding upon the Corporation and its successors and assigns and
shall inure to the benefit of the Covered Debtholders as they exist from time to time (it being understood and agreed by the Corporation that any Person who is a Covered Debtholder at the time such Person acquires, holds or sells Covered Debt shall
retain its status as a Covered Debtholder for so long as the series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money owned by such Person is Covered Debt and, if such Person initiates a claim or proceeding to enforce its rights under this Replacement
Capital Covenant after the Corporation has violated its covenants in Section 2 and before the series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed held by such Person is no longer Covered Debt, such Person s rights under this Replacement
Capital Covenant shall not terminate prior to a Termination Date solely by reason of such series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed no longer being Covered Debt).      (c) All demands, notices, requests and other communications to the Corporation under this Replacement Capital Covenant shall be deemed to have been duly given and made if in writing and (i) if
served by personal delivery upon the Corporation, on the day so delivered (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), (ii) if delivered by registered post or certified mail, return receipt requested, or sent to
the Corporation by a national or international   
         5   

courier service, on the date of receipt by the Corporation (or, if such date of receipt is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), or (iii) if sent by telecopier, on the day
telecopied, or if not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day, provided that the telecopy is promptly confirmed by telephone confirmation thereof, and in each case to the Corporation at the address set forth below, or at such other address
as the Corporation may thereafter notify to Covered Debtholders or post on its website as the address for notices under this Replacement Capital Covenant:      MetLife, Inc.      One MetLife Plaza   
  Long Island City, NY 11101      (d) If the Corporation is obligated to sell Replacement Capital Securities and apply the net proceeds to payments of principal of or interest on any outstanding securities in addition to the
Securities, then on any date and for any period the amount of net proceeds received by the Corporation from those sales and available for such payments shall be applied to the Securities and those other securities having the same scheduled repayment
date or scheduled redemption date as the Securities pro rata in accordance with their respective outstanding principal amounts and none of such net proceeds shall be applied to any other securities having a later scheduled repayment date or
scheduled redemption date until the principal of and all accrued and unpaid interest on the Securities has been paid in full.   
         6   

I N  W ITNESS  W HEREOF , the Corporation has caused
this R EPLACEMENT  C APITAL  C OVENANT  to be executed by its duly authorized officer, as of the day and year first above written.   

M ETLIFE , I NC .   

By:  
     
  /s/ Eric T. Steigerwalt   
 
  Name:  
     
  Eric T. Steigerwalt   
 
  Title:  
     
  Senior Vice President and Treasurer   
 
    R EPLACEMENT  C APITAL  C OVENANT     

S CHEDULE  I   
   Definitions         Alternative Payment Mechanism   means, with respect to any securities or combination of securities (together in this definition,    such securities   ), provisions in
the related transaction documents requiring the Corporation to issue (or use APM Commercially Reasonable Efforts to issue) one or more types of APM Qualifying Securities raising eligible proceeds at least equal to the deferred Distributions on such
securities and apply the proceeds to pay unpaid Distributions on such securities, commencing on the earlier of (x) the first Distribution Date after commencement of a deferral period on which the Corporation pays current Distributions on such
securities and (y) the fifth anniversary of the commencement of such deferral period, and that:      (a) define
   eligible proceeds    to mean, for purposes of such Alternative Payment Mechanism, the net proceeds (after underwriters  or placement agents  fees, commissions or discounts and other expenses relating to the issuance
or sale of the relevant securities, where applicable, and including the fair market value of property received by the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries as consideration for such securities) that the Corporation has received during the
180 days prior to the related Distribution Date from the issuance of APM Qualifying Securities, up to the Preferred Cap (as defined in paragraph (f) below) in the case of APM Qualifying Securities that are Qualifying Non-Cumulative
Perpetual Preferred Stock and Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock;      (b) permit the Corporation to pay current
Distributions on any Distribution Date out of any source of funds but (x) require the Corporation to pay deferred Distributions only out of eligible proceeds and (y) prohibit the Corporation from paying deferred Distributions out of any
source of funds other than eligible proceeds, unless (if the Corporation elects to so provide in the terms of such securities) an Applicable Governmental Authority directs otherwise or an event of default has occurred that results in the
acceleration of such securities;      (c) include a Repurchase Restriction that applies if deferral of Distributions
continues for more than one year;      (d) notwithstanding the foregoing provision, if an Applicable Governmental Authority
disapproves the issuer s sale of APM Qualifying Securities, may (if the Corporation elects to so provide in the terms of such securities) permit the Corporation to pay deferred Distributions from any source without a breach of its obligations
under the transaction documents;      (e) if an Applicable Governmental Authority does not disapprove the Corporation s
issuance and sale of APM Qualifying Securities but disapproves the use of the proceeds thereof to pay deferred Distributions, may (if the Corporation elects to so provide in the terms of such securities) permit the Corporation to use such proceeds
for other purposes and to continue to defer Distributions without a breach of its obligations under the transaction documents; and      (f) limit the obligation of the Corporation to issue (or use APM Commercially Reasonable Efforts to issue) APM Qualifying Securities up to:   
         S-1

(i) in the case of APM Qualifying Securities that are Common Stock or Qualifying Warrants,
an amount from the issuance thereof pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism (including at any point in time from all prior issuances thereof pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism) with respect to deferred Distributions attributable to
the first five years of any deferral period equal to (a) 2% of the product of the average of the current stock market prices of the Common Stock on the ten consecutive trading days ending on the fourth trading day immediately preceding the date
of issuance multiplied by the total number of issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock as of the date of the Corporation s most recent publicly available consolidated financial statements or (b) to a number of shares of Common Stock
and shares purchasable upon exercise of Qualifying Warrants, in the aggregate, not in excess of 2% of the outstanding number of shares of Common Stock (the   Common Cap  ), provided (and it being understood) that the Common Cap shall
cease to apply to such deferral period by a date (as specified in the related transaction documents) which shall be not later than the ninth anniversary of the commencement of such deferral period;   
  (ii) in the case of APM Qualifying Securities that are Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock or Mandatorily Convertible
Preferred Stock, an amount from the issuance thereof pursuant to the related Alternative Payment Mechanism (including at any point in time from all prior issuances thereof pursuant to such Alternative Payment Mechanism) equal to 25% of the initial
principal or stated amount of the securities that are the subject of the related Alternative Payment Mechanism (the   Preferred Cap  );      (iii) in the case of Qualifying Capital Securities other than Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, include a Bankruptcy Claim Limitation Provision;   
  (g) may include a provision that limits the Corporation s ability to sell its Common Stock, Qualifying Warrants or Mandatorily
Convertible Preferred Stock above an aggregate cap specified in the transaction documents (a   Share Cap  ), subject to the Corporation s agreement to use commercially reasonable efforts to increase the Share Cap amount
(i) only to the extent that it can do so and simultaneously satisfy its future fixed or contingent obligations under other securities and derivative instruments that provide for settlement or payment in Common Stock or (ii) if the
Corporation cannot increase the Share Cap amount as contemplated in clause (i) above, by requesting the Corporation s board of directors to adopt a resolution for a stockholder vote at the next occurring annual stockholders  meeting
to increase the number of authorized Common Stock for purposes of satisfying the issuer s obligations to pay deferred Distributions; and      (h) permit the Corporation, at its option, to provide that if it is involved in an amalgamation, merger, consolidation, amalgamation, binding share exchange or conveyance, transfer or lease of assets
substantially as an entirety to any other person or a similar transaction (a   Business Combination  ) where immediately after the consummation of the Business Combination more than 50% of the surviving or resulting entity s
voting shares are owned by the stockholders of the other party to the Business Combination, then clauses (a) through (c) of this definition will not apply to any deferral period that is terminated on the next Distribution Date following
the date of consummation of the Business Combination;   
         S-2

provided  (and it being understood) that:   
  (A) the Corporation shall not be obligated to issue (or use APM Commercially Reasonable Efforts to issue) APM Qualifying Securities for so
long as a Market Disruption Event has occurred and is continuing;      (B) if, due to a Market Disruption Event or otherwise, the
Corporation is able to raise and apply some, but not all, of the eligible proceeds necessary to pay all deferred Distributions on any Distribution Date, the Corporation will apply any available eligible proceeds to pay accrued and unpaid
Distributions on the applicable Distribution Date in chronological order subject to the Common Cap, the Share Cap and the Preferred Cap, as applicable; and      (C) if the Corporation has outstanding more than one class or series of securities under which it is obligated to sell a type of APM Qualifying Securities and apply some part of the proceeds to the
payment of deferred Distributions, then on any date and for any period the amount of net proceeds received by the Corporation from those sales and available for payment of deferred Distributions on such securities shall be applied to such securities
on a pro rata basis up to the Common Cap, the Share Cap and the Preferred Cap, as applicable, in proportion to the total amounts that are due on such securities, or on such other basis as an Applicable Governmental Authority may approve.   
    APM Commercially Reasonable Efforts   means commercially reasonable efforts to complete the offer and sale of APM
Qualifying Securities to third parties that are not Subsidiaries of the Corporation in public offerings or private placements. For the avoidance of doubt, the Corporation will not be considered to have used APM Commercially Reasonable Efforts if the
Corporation determines to not pursue or complete such sale due to pricing, coupon, dividend rate or dilution considerations.   
    APM Qualifying Securities   means, with respect to an Alternative Payment Mechanism or Mandatory Trigger Provision, one
or more of the following (as designated in the transaction documents for the Qualifying Capital Securities that include an Alternative Payment Mechanism or a Mandatory Trigger Provision, as applicable):   
  (a) Common Stock;      (b) Qualifying Warrants;      (c) Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual
Preferred Stock; or      (d) Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock;   
   provided  (and it being understood) that:      (A) if the APM Qualifying Securities for any Alternative Payment Mechanism or Mandatory Trigger Provision include both Common Stock and Qualifying Warrants,   
         S-3

(i) such Alternative Payment Mechanism or Mandatory Trigger Provision may permit, but need
not require, the Corporation to issue Qualifying Warrants; and      (ii) the Corporation may, without the consent of the holders
of the Qualifying Capital Securities, amend the definition of APM Qualifying Securities to eliminate Common Stock or Qualifying Warrants (but not both) from the definition if, after the issue date, an accounting standard or interpretive guidance of
an existing accounting standard issued by an organization or regulator that has responsibility for establishing or interpreting accounting standards in the United States becomes effective so that there is more than an insubstantial risk that the
failure to do so would result in a reduction in the Corporation s earnings per share as calculated for financial reporting purposes; and      (B) if the APM Qualifying Securities for any Alternative Payment Mechanism or Mandatory Trigger Provision include Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock,   
  (i) such Alternative Payment Mechanism or Mandatory Trigger Provision may permit, but need not require, the Corporation to issue
Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock; and      (ii) the Corporation may, without the consent of the holders of the Qualifying
Capital Securities, amend the definition of APM Qualifying Securities to eliminate Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock from the definition if, after the issue date, an accounting standard or interpretive guidance of an existing accounting
standard issued by an organization or regulator that has responsibility for establishing or interpreting accounting standards in the United States becomes effective so that there is more than an insubstantial risk that the failure to do so would
result in a reduction in the Corporation s earnings per share as calculated for financial reporting purposes.   
    Applicable Governmental Authority   means any regulatory body, administrative agency, or governmental body having
jurisdiction over the Corporation or any Subsidiary thereof, including, without limitation, any insurance regulatory authority and the Federal Reserve Board.        Applicable Percentage   means:      (a) in the case of any
Common Stock or Qualifying Warrants, (i) 133.33% with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase prior to December 15, 2037, (ii) 200% with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase on or after December 15, 2037 and
prior to December 15, 2047 and (iii) 400% with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase on or after December 15, 2047;      (b) in the case of any Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, Debt Exchangeable for Common Equity or Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity, (i) 100% with respect to any repayment, redemption
or purchase prior to December 15, 2037, (ii) 150% with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase on or after December 15, 2037 and prior to December 15, 2047      and (iii) 300% with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase on or after December 15, 2047;   
         S-4

(c) in the case of any Qualifying Capital Securities described in clause (a) of
the definition of that term, (i) 100% with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase prior to December 15, 2037, (ii) 150% with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase on or after December 15, 2037 and prior to
December 15, 2047 and (iii) 300% with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase on or after December 15, 2047;      (d) in the case of any Qualifying Capital Securities described in clause (b) of the definition of that term, (i) 100% with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase on or after
December 15, 2037 and prior to December 15, 2047 and (ii) 200% with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase on or after December 15, 2047; and      (e) in the case of any Qualifying Capital Securities described in clause (c) of the definition of that term, 100%.        Bankruptcy Claim Limitation Provision   means, with respect to any Qualifying Capital Securities that have an Alternative Payment Mechanism or a Mandatory Trigger Provision, provisions
that, upon any liquidation, dissolution, winding up or reorganization or in connection with any insolvency, receivership or proceeding under any bankruptcy law with respect to the issuer or the Corporation, limit the claim of the holders of such
securities to Distributions that accumulate during (i) any deferral period, in the case of securities that have an Alternative Payment Mechanism or (ii) any period in which the Corporation fails to satisfy one or more financial tests set
forth in the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements, in the case of securities that have a Mandatory Trigger Provision, to:      (a) in the case of Qualifying Capital Securities that have an Alternative Payment Mechanism or Mandatory Trigger Provision with respect to which the APM Qualifying Securities do not include
Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, 25% of the stated or principal amount of such Qualifying Capital Securities then outstanding; and   
  (b) in the case of any other Qualifying Capital Securities, an amount not in excess of the sum of (x) the earliest two years of
accumulated and unpaid Distributions (including compounded amounts thereon) and (y) an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the Preferred Cap over the aggregate amount of net proceeds from the sale of Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual
Preferred Stock and Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock that are still outstanding that the issuer has applied to pay such Distributions pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism or the Mandatory Trigger Provision;  provided  that the
holders of such Qualifying Capital Securities are deemed to agree that, to the extent the claim for deferred Distributions exceeds the amount set forth in clause (x), the amount they receive in respect of such excess shall not exceed the amount they
would have received had the claim for such excess ranked  pari passu  with the interests of the holders, if any, of Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock.        Below Investment Grade Rating Event   means the Corporation s senior unsecured credit rating from each of the Rating Agencies is below Investment Grade on any date from the date of
the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of   
         S-5

the 60-day period following public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control (which period shall be extended so long as the senior unsecured credit rating of the Corporation is under
publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies);  provided  that a Below Investment Grade Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred
in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Event hereunder) if the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this
definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Corporation in writing at its request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or
in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control shall have occurred at the time of the Below Investment Grade Rating Event).        Business Day   means any day other than (a) a Saturday or Sunday or (b) a day on which banking institutions in New York, New York are authorized or required by law or executive
order to remain closed, or on or after December 15, 2037, a day which is not a London banking day.        Change of
Control   means the occurrence of any of the following:      (a) the consummation of any direct or indirect sale,
transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of amalgamation, merger, consolidation or scheme of arrangement), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Corporation and
those of its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any  person  (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than the issuer or another wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Corporation;   
  (b) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any amalgamation, merger, consolidation or scheme of
arrangement) the result of which is that any  person  (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than the Corporation or another wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Corporation, becomes the beneficial owner,
directly or indirectly, of more than or equal to 50% of the Voting Shares of the Corporation, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; or      (c) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Corporation s board of directors are not Continuing Directors.   
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction effected to create a holding company for the Corporation will not be deemed to involve a
change of control if (1) pursuant to such transaction the Corporation becomes a wholly-owned Subsidiary of such holding company and (2) the holders of the Voting Shares of such holding company immediately following such transaction are the
same as the holders of the Voting Shares of the Corporation immediately prior to such transaction.        Change of Control
Event   means the occurrence of a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.   
    Commission   means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.   
         S-6

Common Stock   means common stock of the Corporation and rights to acquire
common stock issued pursuant to any dividend reinvestment plan and employee benefit plans of the Corporation (including treasury shares of common stock).        Continuing Director   means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Corporation s board of directors who:   
  (a) was a member of such board of directors on the first date that any of the Securities were issued; or   
  (b) was nominated for election or elected to the Corporation s board of directors with the approval of a majority of the
Continuing Directors who were members of the Corporation s board at the time of such nomination or election.   
    Corporation   has the meaning specified in the introduction to this instrument.   
    Covered Debt   means (a) at the date of this Replacement Capital Covenant and continuing to but not including the
first Redesignation Date, the Initial Covered Debt and (b) thereafter, commencing with each Redesignation Date and continuing to but not including the next succeeding Redesignation Date, the Eligible Debt identified pursuant to
Section 3(b) as the Covered Debt for such period.        Covered Debtholder   means each Person (whether a
holder or a beneficial owner holding through a participant in a clearing agency) that buys, holds or sells the Corporation s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed during the period that such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed is
Covered Debt.        Debt Exchangeable for Common Equity   means a security or combination of securities (together
in this definition,  such securities ) that:      (a) gives the holder a beneficial interest in (x) a
fractional interest in a stock purchase contract for Common Stock that will be settled in three years or less, with the number of shares of Common Stock purchasable pursuant to such stock purchase contract to be within a range established at the
time of issuance of such subordinated debt securities, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments and (y) subordinated debt securities of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries that are non-callable prior to the settlement date of the
stock purchase contracts;      (b) provides that the holders directly or indirectly grant the Corporation a security interest
in such subordinated debt securities and their proceeds (including any substitute collateral permitted under the transaction documents) to secure the holders  direct or indirect obligation to purchase shares of Common Stock pursuant to such
stock purchase contracts;      (c) includes a remarketing feature pursuant to which the subordinated debt securities are
remarketed to new investors commencing not later than the last Distribution Date that is at least one month prior to the settlement date of the stock purchase contract; and   
         S-7

(d) provides for the proceeds raised in the remarketing to be used to purchase shares
of Common Stock under the stock purchase contracts and, if there has not been a successful remarketing by the settlement date of the stock purchase contract, provides that the stock purchase contracts will be settled by the Corporation exercising
its remedies as a secured party with respect to the subordinated debt securities or other collateral directly or indirectly pledged by holders in the Debt Exchangeable for Common Equity.   
    Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity   means a security or combination of securities (together in this definition,
 such securities ) that:      (a) gives the holder a beneficial interest in (i) subordinated debt securities of
the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries (in this definition, the  issuer ) that include a provision permitting the issuer to defer Distributions in whole or in part on such securities for one or more Distribution Periods of up to at
least seven years without any remedies other than Permitted Remedies and that are the most junior subordinated debt of the issuer (or rank  pari passu  with the most junior subordinated debt of the issuer) and (ii) an interest in a stock
purchase contract that obligates the holder to acquire a beneficial interest in Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock;      (b) provides that the holders directly or indirectly grant to the Corporation a security interest in such subordinated debt securities and their proceeds (including any substitute collateral
permitted under the transaction documents) to secure the investors  direct or indirect obligation to purchase Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock pursuant to such stock purchase contracts;   
  (c) includes a remarketing feature pursuant to which the subordinated debt of the issuer is remarketed to new investors commencing
not later than the first Distribution Date that is at least five years after the date of issuance of such securities or earlier in the event of an early settlement event based on (i) one or more financial tests set forth in the terms of the
instrument governing the terms of such Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity or (ii) the dissolution of the issuer of such Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity;      (d) provides for the proceeds raised in the remarketing to be used to purchase Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock under the stock purchase contracts and, if there has not been a
successful remarketing by the first Distribution Date that is six years after the date of issuance of such securities, provides that the stock purchase contracts will be settled by the Corporation exercising its rights as a secured creditor with
respect to the subordinated debt securities or other collateral directly or indirectly pledged by investors in the Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity;      (e) includes a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant that will apply to such securities and to any Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock issued pursuant to the stock purchase
contracts;  provided  that such Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant may not include Debt Exchangeable for Common Equity or Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity as a replacement security; and   
  (f) after the issuance of such Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, provides the holder with a beneficial interest
in such Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock.   
         S-8

Distribution Date   means, as to any securities or combination of
securities, the dates on which periodic Distributions on such securities are scheduled to be made.        Distribution
Period   means, as to any securities or combination of securities, each period from and including the later of the issue date and a Distribution Date for such securities to but excluding the next succeeding Distribution Date for such
securities.        Distributions   means, as to a security or combination of securities, dividends, interest
payments or other income distributions to the holders thereof that are not Subsidiaries of the Corporation.        Eligible
Debt   means, at any time, Eligible Subordinated Debt or, if no Eligible Subordinated Debt is then outstanding, Eligible Senior Debt.        Eligible Senior Debt   means, at any time in respect of any issuer, each series of outstanding unsecured long-term indebtedness for money borrowed of such issuer that:   
  (a) upon a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the issuer, ranks most senior among the issuer s then
outstanding classes of unsecured indebtedness for money borrowed,      (b) is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO
( provided  that this clause (b) shall apply on a Redesignation Date only if on such date the issuer has outstanding senior long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that satisfies the requirements of clauses (a), (c) and
(d) that is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO),      (c) has an outstanding principal amount of not less than
$100,000,000, and      (d) was issued through or with the assistance of a commercial or investment banking firm or firms
acting as underwriters, initial purchasers or placement or distribution agents.      For purposes of this definition as applied to
securities with a CUSIP number, each issuance of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that has (or, if such indebtedness is held by a trust or other intermediate entity established directly or indirectly by the issuer, the securities of such
intermediate entity that have) a separate CUSIP number shall be deemed to be a series of the issuer s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is separate from each other series of such indebtedness.   
    Eligible Subordinated Debt   means, at any time in respect of any issuer, each series of the issuer s
then-outstanding unsecured long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that:      (a) upon a bankruptcy, liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the issuer, ranks senior to the Securities and subordinate to the issuer s then outstanding series of unsecured indebtedness for money borrowed that ranks most senior,   
  (b) is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO ( provided  that this clause (b) shall apply on a Redesignation Date
only if on such date the issuer has outstanding subordinated long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that satisfies the requirements in clauses (a), (c) and (d) that is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO),   
         S-9

(c) has an outstanding principal amount of not less than $100,000,000, and   
  (d) was issued through or with the assistance of a commercial or investment banking firm or firms acting as underwriters, initial
purchasers or placement or distribution agents.      For purposes of this definition as applied to securities with a CUSIP number,
each issuance of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that has (or, if such indebtedness is held by a trust or other intermediate entity established directly or indirectly by the issuer, the securities of such intermediate entity that have) a
separate CUSIP number shall be deemed to be a series of the issuer s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is separate from each other series of such indebtedness.   
    Exchange   means either an exchange made upon the Corporation s election to cause the outstanding X-SURPS to be
exchanged, in whole but not in part, for a like amount of Junior Subordinated Indentures, or an exchange of the outstanding X-SURPS, in whole but not in part, for a like amount of Junior Subordinated Indentures, made automatically under certain
circumstances.        Exchange Act   means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   
    Initial Covered Debt   means the Corporation s 5.70% Senior Notes due 2035.   
    Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure   means, as to any security or combination of securities (together in this
definition,   securities  ), that the issuer has publicly stated its intention, either in the prospectus or other offering document under which such securities were initially offered for sale or in filings with the Commission made by
the issuer under the Exchange Act prior to or contemporaneously with the issuance of such securities, that the issuer and any subsidiary, to the extent the securities provide the issuer with rating agency equity credit, will repay, redeem, purchase
or defease such securities only with the proceeds of replacement capital securities that have terms and provisions at the time of repayment, redemption, purchase or defeasance that are as or more equity-like than the securities then being repaid,
redeemed, purchased or defeased raised within 180 days prior to the applicable repayments, redemption, purchase or defeasance date.        Investment Grade   means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody s (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Moody s) and BBB- or better by Standard  
Poor s (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Standard   Poor s) (or, in each case, if such rating agency ceases to publish a senior unsecured credit rating for the Corporation for reasons outside of the
Corporation s control, the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any Rating Agency selected by the Corporation as a replacement Rating Agency).        Investor Screen   has the meaning specified in Section 3(c).   
    Junior Subordinated Debentures   has the meaning specified in the Recitals.   
    Junior Subordinated Indenture   means the indenture, dated June 21, 2005, between the Corporation and The Bank of
New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association), as subordinated indenture trustee, as supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture.   
         S-10

JSD Event of Default   means,   
  (a) the failure to pay interest on the Junior Subordinated Debentures (including compounded interest) in full, whether due to an
optional deferral or interest, during a trigger period or otherwise, after the conclusion of a period of ten consecutive years following the commencement of any deferral of interest period or on the final maturity date of the Junior Subordinated
Debentures;      (b) default in the payment of the principal of, and premium, if any, on the Junior Subordinated Debentures
when due; or      (c) certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency, or receivership with respect to the Corporation, whether
voluntary or not.        Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock   means cumulative preferred stock with
(a) no prepayment obligation on the part of the issuer thereof, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise, and (b) a requirement that such cumulative preferred stock convert into common stock within three years from the date of
its issuance at a conversion ratio within a range established at the time of issuance of such cumulative preferred stock, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments.        Mandatory Trigger Provision   means, as to any Qualifying Capital Securities, provisions in the terms thereof or of the related transaction agreements that:   
  (a) if the issuer of such securities fails to satisfy one or more financial tests set forth in the terms of such securities or
related transaction agreements, for so long as such failure continues:      (x) permit such issuer to make payment of
Distributions on such securities only pursuant to the issue and sale of APM Qualifying Securities and      (y) in the case of any
such securities other than Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, require such issuer to issue and sell APM Qualifying Securities (or use APM Commercially Reasonable Efforts to issue and sell)   
  within two years of such failure, in an amount such that the net proceeds of such sale are at least equal to the amount of unpaid Distributions on such
securities (including all deferred and accumulated amounts),  provided  that (i) such Mandatory Trigger Provision shall limit the issuance and sale of Common Stock and/or Qualifying Warrants the net proceeds of which must be applied to pay
such Distributions pursuant to such provision to the Common Cap unless such Mandatory Trigger Provision requires such issuance and sale within one year of such failure and (ii) the amount of Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock
and still-outstanding Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock issued pursuant to the Mandatory Trigger Provision the net proceeds of which the issuer may apply to pay such Distributions pursuant to such provision may not exceed the Preferred Cap;
     (b) prohibit the issuer of such securities from redeeming or purchasing any of its securities ranking upon the
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the issuer junior to or  pari passu  with any APM Qualifying Securities the proceeds of which were used to settle deferred   
         S-11

interest during the relevant deferral period prior to the date six months after the issuer applies the net proceeds of the sales described in paragraph (a) above to pay such deferred
distributions in full (subject to the same exceptions as are set forth in paragraphs (a)   (c) of the definition of Repurchase Restriction);      (c) if the provisions described in paragraph (a) above do not require such issuance and sale within one year of such failure, include a Repurchase Restriction that applies if deferral of
Distributions continues for more than one year; and      (d) include a Bankruptcy Claim Limitation Provision;   
   provided  (and it being understood) that:      (a) the issuer will not be obligated to issue (or use APM Commercially Reasonable Efforts to issue) APM Qualifying Securities for so long as a Market Disruption Event has occurred and is continuing;
     (b) if, due to a Market Disruption Event or otherwise, the issuer is able to raise and apply some, but not all, of the
eligible proceeds necessary to pay all deferred Distributions on any Distribution Date, the issuer will apply any available eligible proceeds to pay accrued and unpaid Distributions on the applicable Distribution Date in chronological order subject
to the Common Cap and Preferred Cap, as applicable; and      (c) if the Corporation and its Subsidiaries have outstanding
more than one class or series of securities under which the Company is obligated to sell a type of APM Qualifying Securities and apply some part of the proceeds to the payment of deferred Distributions, then on any date and for any period the amount
of net proceeds received by the issuer from those sales and available for payment of deferred Distributions on such securities shall be applied to such securities on a  pro rata  basis up to the Common Cap and the Preferred Cap, as applicable,
in proportion to the total amounts that are due on such securities.      No remedy other than Permitted Remedies will arise by the
terms of such securities or related transaction agreements in favor of the holders of such Qualifying Capital Securities as a result of the issuer s failure to pay Distributions because of the Mandatory Trigger Provision until Distributions
have been deferred for one or more Distribution Periods that total together at least ten years.        Market Disruption
Event   means the occurrence or existence of any of the following events or sets of circumstances:      (a) trading in
securities generally on any national securities exchange or over-the-counter market on which the Common Stock and/or the Corporation s preferred stock is then listed or traded is suspended or the settlement of such trading generally is
materially disrupted or minimum prices are established on any such exchange or such market by the Commission, by such exchange or by any other regulatory authority or governmental authority having jurisdiction and the establishment of such minimum
prices materially disrupts trading in, and the issuance and sale of, Common Stock and/or the Corporation s preferred stock;   
         S-12

(b) the Corporation was required to obtain the consent or approval of its stockholders,
a regulatory body or governmental authority to issue or sell APM Qualifying Securities and, after using commercially reasonable efforts to obtain such consent or approval, the Corporation fails to obtain such consent or approval;   
  (c) a material disruption shall have occurred in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United
States and such disruption materially disrupts trading in, or the issuance of, APM Qualifying Securities;      (d) a banking
moratorium shall have been declared by the federal or state authorities of the United States and such moratorium materially disrupts trading in, or the issuance and sale of, the APM Qualifying Securities;   
  (e) the United States shall have become engaged in hostilities, there shall have been an escalation in hostilities involving the
United States, there shall have been a declaration of a national emergency or war by the United States or there shall have occurred any other national or international calamity or crisis and such event materially disrupts or otherwise has a material
adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, the APM Qualifying Securities;      (f) there shall have occurred
such a material adverse change in general domestic or international economic, political or financial conditions, including without limitation as a result of terrorist activities, that trading in, or the issuance and sale of, APM Qualifying
Securities shall have been materially disrupted;      (g) an event occurs and is continuing as a result of which the offering
document for the offer and sale of APM Qualifying Securities would, in the reasonable judgment of the Corporation, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the
statements therein not misleading and either (i) the disclosure of that event at such time, in the reasonable judgment of the Corporation, would have a material adverse effect on the business of the Corporation and is not otherwise required by
law or (ii) the disclosure relates to a previously undisclosed proposed or pending material business transaction, and the Corporation has a bona fide reason for keeping the same confidential or its disclosure would impede the ability of the
Corporation to consummate such transaction, provided that no single suspension period contemplated by this paragraph (g) may exceed 90 consecutive days and multiple suspension periods contemplated by this paragraph (g) may not exceed an
aggregate of 180 days in any 360-day period; or      (h) the Corporation reasonably believes that the offering document
for the offer and sale of APM Qualifying Securities would not be in compliance with a rule or regulation of the Commission (for reasons other than those referred to in paragraph (g) above) and the Corporation is unable to comply with such rule
or regulation or such compliance is unduly burdensome, provided that no single suspension period contemplated by this paragraph (h) may exceed 90 consecutive days and multiple suspension periods contemplated by this paragraph (h) may not
exceed an aggregate of 180 days in any 360-day period.   
         S-13

The definition of  Market Disruption Event  as used in any securities or
combination of securities that constitute APM Qualifying Securities may include less than all of the paragraphs outlined above, as determined by the Corporation at the time of issuance of such securities, and in the case of clauses (a), (b),
(c) and (d), as applicable to a circumstance where the Corporation would otherwise endeavor to issue preferred stock, shall be limited to circumstances affecting markets where the Corporation s preferred stock trades or where a listing for
its trading is being sought.        Market Value   means, on any date, the closing sale price per share of Common
Stock (or if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on that date as reported in composite transactions by the New York
Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported by the principal U.S. securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded or quoted; if the Common Stock is not either listed or quoted on any
U.S. securities exchange on the relevant date, the market value will be the average of the mid-point of the bid and ask prices for the common stock on the relevant date submitted by at least three nationally recognized independent investment banking
firms selected for this purpose by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a committee thereof.        Measurement
Date   means (a) with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase of the Securities on or prior to the Scheduled Redemption Date, the date that is 180 days; and (b) with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase of
the Securities after the Scheduled Redemption Date, the date that is 90 days, in each case prior to delivery of notice of such repayment or redemption or prior to the date of such purchase.   
    Measurement Period   means the period from a Measurement Date to the related notice date or purchase date. Measurement
Periods cannot run concurrently.        No Payment Provision   means a provision or provisions in the transaction
documents for securities (referred to in this definition as  such securities ) that include the following:   
  (a) an Alternative Payment Mechanism; and      (b) an Optional Deferral Provision modified and supplemented from the general definition of that term to provide that the issuer of such securities may, in its sole discretion, or (if the Corporation
elects to so provide in the terms of such securities) shall in response to a directive or order from any Applicable Governmental Authority defer in whole or in part payment of Distributions on such securities for one or more consecutive Distribution
Periods of up to five years or, if a Market Disruption Event has occurred and is continuing, ten years, without any remedy other than Permitted Remedies and the obligations (and limitations on obligations) described in the definition of
 Alternative Payment Mechanism  applying.        Non-Cumulative   means, with respect to any securities,
that the issuer may elect not to make any number of periodic Distributions without any remedy arising under the terms of the securities or related agreements in favor of the holders, other than one or more Permitted Remedies.   
    NRSRO   means a nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Section 3(a)(62) under
the Exchange Act.   
         S-14

Offering Circular   has the meaning specified in the Recitals.   
    Optional Deferral Provisions   means, as to any securities, provisions in the terms thereof or of the related
transaction agreements to the effect of either (a) or (b) below:      (a) (i) the issuer of such securities
may, in its sole discretion, defer in whole or in part payment of Distributions on such securities for one or more consecutive Distribution Periods of up to five years or, if a Market Disruption Event is continuing, ten years, without any remedy
other than Permitted Remedies and (ii) an Alternative Payment Mechanism (provided that such Alternative Payment Mechanism need not apply during the first five years of any deferral period and need not include a Common Cap, Preferred Cap,
Bankruptcy Claim Limitation Provision or Repurchase Restriction); or      (b) the issuer of such securities may, in its sole
discretion, defer in whole or in part payment of Distributions on such securities for one or more consecutive Distribution Periods up to ten years, without any remedy other than Permitted Remedies.   
    Permitted Remedies   means, with respect to any securities, one or more of the following remedies:   
  (a) rights in favor of the holders of such securities permitting such holders to elect one or more directors of the issuer (including
any such rights required by the listing requirements of any stock or securities exchange on which such securities may be listed or traded), and      (b) complete or partial prohibitions preventing the issuer from paying Distributions on or repurchasing Common Stock or other securities that rank  pari passu  with or junior as to Distributions
to such securities for so long as Distributions on such securities, including unpaid Distributions, remain unpaid.   
    Person   means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, limited liability company or corporation,
unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.        Qualifying Capital
Securities   means securities (other than Common Stock, rights to acquire Common Stock, Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, Debt Exchangeable for Common Equity and Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity) that, in the determination of
the Corporation s Board of Directors reasonably construing the definitions and other terms of this Replacement Capital Covenant, meet one of the following criteria:      (a) in connection with any repayment, redemption or purchase of Securities on or prior to December 15, 2037:      (i) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) rank  pari passu  with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures (or would rank  pari passu  with or junior to
the Junior Subordinated Debentures upon the issuance thereof) upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (B) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and (C) either (x) are subject to a
Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant and have either a No Payment Provision or are Non-Cumulative or (y)     have a Mandatory Trigger Provision
and are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure and have either an Optional Deferral Provision or a No Payment Provision; or   
         S-15

(ii) preferred stock issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) is
Non-Cumulative, (B) has no prepayment obligation on the part of the issuer thereof, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise, (C) has no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and (D) is subject to Intent-Based
Replacement Disclosure; or      (iii) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) rank  pari
passu  or junior to other preferred stock of the issuer, (B) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years, (C) are subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant, (D) have an Optional Deferral Provision and
(E) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision; or      (b) in connection with any repayment, redemption or purchase of Junior
Subordinated Debentures at any time after December 15, 2037 but on or prior to December 15, 2047:      (i) all securities
described under clause (a) of this definition;      (ii) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that
(A) rank  pari passu  with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures (or would rank  pari passu  with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures upon the issuance thereof) upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the Corporation, (B) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years, (C) are subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant and (D) have an Optional Deferral Provision;   
  (iii) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) rank  pari passu  with or junior to the Junior
Subordinated Debentures (or would rank  pari passu  with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures upon the issuance thereof) upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (B) are Non-Cumulative or have a No
Payment Provision and (C) (x) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and (y) are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure;      (iv) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) rank  pari passu  with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures (or would rank  pari passu  with or junior to
the Junior Subordinated Debentures upon the issuance thereof) upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (B) are Non-Cumulative or have a No Payment Provision, (C) have no maturity or a maturity of at least
40 years and (D) are subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant;      (v) securities issued by the Corporation
or its Subsidiaries that (a) rank  pari passu  with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures (or would rank  pari passu  with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures upon the issuance thereof) upon the
Corporation s liquidation, dissolution or winding up, (b) have an Optional Deferral Provision, (c) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years (d) are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure and (e) have
a Mandatory Trigger Provision;   
         S-16

(vi) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (a) rank  pari
passu  with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures (or would rank  pari passu  with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures upon the issuance thereof) upon the Corporation s liquidation, dissolution or winding up,
(b) have an Optional Deferral Provision, (c) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 25 years (d) have a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant and (e) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision;   
  (vii) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) rank  pari passu  with or junior to the Junior
Subordinated Debentures (or would rank  pari passu  with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures upon the issuance thereof) upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (B) have an Optional Deferral Provision,
(C) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision and (D) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years;      (viii)
cumulative preferred stock issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) has no prepayment obligation on the part of the issuer thereof, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise, and (B) (x) has no maturity or a
maturity of at least 60 years and (y) is subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant; or      (ix) other
securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) rank upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation either (x)  pari passu  with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures (or would rank
 pari passu  with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures upon the issuance thereof) or (y)  pari passu  with the claims of the Corporation s trade creditors and junior to all of the Corporation s long-term
indebtedness for money borrowed (other than the Corporation s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed from time to time outstanding that by its terms ranks  pari passu  with such securities on a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of
the Corporation), (B) have an Optional Deferral Provision or a No Payment Provision and (C) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision and (D) either (x) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years and Intent-Based
Replacement Disclosure or (y) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 25 years and are subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant; or      (c) in connection with any repayment, redemption or purchase of Junior Subordinated Debentures at any time after December 15, 2047:   
  (i) securities described under clause (b) of this definition;   
  (ii) preferred stock issued by the Corporation that (A) (x) has no maturity or a maturity of at least 50 years and
(y) is subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure and (B) is Non-Cumulative;      (iii) securities issued by the
Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) rank  pari passu  with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures (or would rank  pari passu  with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures upon the issuance thereof) upon a
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (B) either (x) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure or (y) have no maturity or a maturity at least
30 years and are subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant and (C) are Non-Cumulative;   
         S-17

(iv) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) rank  pari
passu  with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures (or would rank  pari passu  with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures upon the issuance thereof) upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation,
(B) have an Optional Deferral Provision, (C) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision and (D) (x) have no maturity or a maturity at least 30 years and (y) are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure;   
  (v) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that rank senior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures upon the
Corporation s liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and (a) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and either (x) have an Optional Deferral Provision and are subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant or
(y) (i) have either a No Payment Provision or are Non-Cumulative and (ii) are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure;      (vi) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that rank senior to the Junior Subordinated Debentures upon the Corporation s liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and (a) have
no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years and either (x) (i) have either a No Payment Provision or are Non-Cumulative and (ii) are subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant or (y) have a Mandatory Trigger
Provision and an Optional Deferral Provision and are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure; or      (vii) cumulative
preferred stock issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that either (A) (x) has no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and (y) are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure or (B) has a maturity of at
least 40 years and is subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant.      Notwithstanding (and as a qualification to) the foregoing,
in the case of each Qualifying Capital Security that includes a Significant Distribution Rate Step-Up, each reference in this definition to  Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure  shall instead be deemed to read  a Qualifying
Replacement Capital Covenant.         Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock   means
non-cumulative preferred shares of the Corporation that rank  pari passu  with or junior to all other preferred shares of the Corporation, are perpetual and (a) are subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant or (b) are
subject to both (i) mandatory suspension of dividends in the event the Corporation breaches certain financial metrics specified within the offering documents, and (ii) Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure. Additionally, in both (a) and
(b) the transaction documents shall provide for no remedies as a consequence of non-payment of Distributions other than Permitted Remedies.        Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant   means a replacement capital covenant that is substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or a replacement capital covenant, as
identified by the Corporation s board of directors acting in good faith and in its reasonable discretion and reasonably construing the definitions and other terms of this Replacement Capital Covenant, (i) entered into by an issuer that at
the time it enters into such replacement capital covenant is a reporting company under the Exchange Act and (ii) that restricts the related issuer and its Subsidiaries from redeeming, repaying or purchasing identified securities except to the
extent of the applicable percentage of the net proceeds from the issuance of specified replacement   
         S-18

capital securities that have terms and provisions at the time of redemption, repayment or purchase that are as or more equity-like than the securities then being redeemed, repaid or purchased
within the 180-day period prior to the applicable redemption, repayment or purchase date, provided that the term of such replacement capital covenant shall be determined at the time of issuance of the related Replacement Capital Securities taking
into account the other characteristics of such securities. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the replacement capital covenant must continue at least until the earlier of (i) 20 years after initial issuance of the Qualifying Capital Securities
relating to such Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant and (ii) December 15, 2067.        Qualifying
Warrants   means net share settled warrants to purchase Common Stock that (i) have an exercise price greater than the current Market Value of the Common Stock as of the date the Corporation agrees to issue the warrants, and
(ii) the Corporation is not entitled to redeem for cash and the holders of which are not entitled to require it to repurchase for cash in any circumstances. The Corporation will state in the prospectus or other offering document for any
Qualifying Capital Securities that include an Alternative Payment Mechanism or Mandatory Trigger Provision its intention that any Qualifying Warrants issued in accordance with such Alternative Payment Mechanism or Mandatory Trigger Provisions will
have exercise prices at least 10% above the current Market Value of its common stock on the date of issuance.        Rating
Agency   means:      (a) each of Moody s and Standard   Poor  and   
  (b) if any of Moody s or Standard   Poor s ceases to publish a senior unsecured credit rating for the Corporation
for reasons outside of the Corporation s control, an NRSRO selected by the Corporation as a replacement agency for Fitch, Moody s or S P, or all of them, as the case may be.   
    Redesignation Date   means, as to the Covered Debt in effect at any time, the earliest of (a) the date that is two
years prior to the final maturity date of such Covered Debt, (b) if the Corporation elects to redeem, repay or defease, or the Corporation or a Subsidiary of the Corporation elects to purchase, such Covered Debt either in whole or in part with
the consequence that after giving effect to such redemption, repayment, purchase or defeasance the outstanding principal amount of such Covered Debt is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption, repayment, purchase or defeasance date and
(c) if such Covered Debt is not Eligible Subordinated Debt, the date on which the Corporation issues long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Subordinated Debt.   
    Replacement Capital Covenant   has the meaning specified in the introduction to this instrument.   
    Replacement Capital Securities   means, Common Stock and rights to acquire Common Stock (including Common Stock and
rights to acquire Common Stock issued pursuant to any reinvestment plan and employee benefit plans of the Corporation);   
  (a) Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock;      (b) Debt Exchangeable for Common Equity;   
         S-19

(c) Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity; and   
  (d) Qualifying Capital Securities.        Repurchase Restriction   means, with respect to any Qualifying Capital Securities that include an Alternative Payment Mechanism or a Mandatory Trigger Provision, provisions that require
the Corporation and its Subsidiaries not to redeem or purchase any of securities of the Corporation ranking junior to or  pari passu  with any APM Qualifying Securities the proceeds of which were used to settle deferred interest during the
relevant deferral period until at least one year after all deferred Distributions have been paid other than the following (none of which shall be restricted or prohibited by a Repurchase Restriction):   
  (a) purchases of such securities by Subsidiaries of the Corporation in connection with the distribution thereof or market-making or
other secondary-market activities;      (b) purchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of Common Stock in connection with
any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of employees, officers, directors or consultants; and      (c) purchases of shares of Common Stock pursuant to a contractually binding requirement to buy such shares entered into prior to the beginning of the related deferral period, including under a
contractually binding share repurchase plan.        Scheduled Redemption Date   means December 15, 2037, or if
that day is not a Business Day, the next Business Day.        Significant Distribution Rate Step-Up   means, as to
a Qualifying Capital Security, an increase in the Distribution Rate at a date after initial issuance of such security of more than 25 basis points (or, if the method of calculating Distributions on such Qualifying Capital Security is changing at the
time of such increase (for example, from a fixed rate to a floating rate based upon a margin above an index or from a floating rate based upon a margin above one index to a floating rate based upon a margin above a different index), an increase in
the margin above the applicable credit spread in calculating such increased rate as compared to the credit spread used in calculating the initial Distribution Rate of more than 25 basis points).   
    Subsidiary   means, at any time, any Person the shares of stock or other ownership interests of which having ordinary
voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other managers of such Person are at the time owned, or the management or policies of which are otherwise at the time controlled, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries
(including other Subsidiaries) or both, by another Person.        Supplemental Indenture   means the Fourth
Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 12, 2007, between the Corporation and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee.        Termination Date   has the meaning specified in Section 4(a).   
         S-20

Voting Shares   as applied to shares of any Person, means shares,
interests, participations or other equivalents in the equity interest (however designated) in such person having ordinary voting power for the election of a majority of the directors (or the equivalent) of such Person, other than shares, interests,
participations or other equivalents having such power only by reason of the occurrence of a contingency.   
    X-SURPS   has the meaning specified in the Recitals.   
         S-21

</EX-4.82>

<EX-10.14>
 4
 d450627dex1014.htm
 EX-10.14

Ex-10.14 

Exhibit 10.14    

December 10, 2012      Mr. Ricardo Anzaldua      [address redacted]   
  Dear Ricardo:      I am pleased to offer you
employment with MetLife Group, Inc. in the position of Executive Vice President and General Counsel of MetLife, Inc., MetLife Group, Inc. and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, subject to the approval of MetLife s Compensation Committee and
Board of Directors.      In your new role, you will report to me and be based initially in our offices located at 1095 Avenue
of the Americas, New York, New York. Your starting annual base salary shall be $475,000 payable semi-monthly (on the
15   th    and last work day of each month), and we anticipate
that your starting date will be December 17, 2012, or on such other date as you and I agree.      In addition to your base salary, you will
be eligible for an award under the MetLife Annual Variable Incentive Plan (AVIP) and for long-term stock-based incentive awards. While the actual amount of AVIP and long-term stock-based incentive awards are discretionary, heavily influenced by
company and individual current and expected performance and vary from year to year, with no amounts or targets guaranteed, for at least the 2013 performance year, the total annualized base and target incentive compensation opportunity for which you
will be considered will be approximately $2,225,000 (based on a target AVIP award opportunity of $550,000 and long-term stock-based target of $1,200,000, which we anticipate will be a combination of Performance Shares and Stock Options). Each year
AVIP and long-term incentive awards are generally made by the middle of March, and in order to receive any payment or award grant you must be actively at work on the date such awards and payments are made as determined by the applicable plan or
program.      Based on the information you provided us, we understand you will forfeit certain compensation awards from your current employer if
you accept employment with us. With the understanding you shall be joining MetLife late in the 2012 performance year, and as a result not considered for incentive compensation for such performance period, I will recommend to MetLife s
Compensation Committee and Board of Directors that you be offered the following:       

A one-time sign-on payment of $500,000, which will be paid to you in the first paycheck following thirty (30) completed calendar days of service
with MetLife. Please understand that if you voluntarily terminate your employment with us prior to your first      
         1   

employment anniversary date, you will be required to repay the full amount of this payment.      

A one-time award of $450,000 in MetLife, Inc. Restricted Stock Units effective on or after the date you begin employment. This award is subject to
vesting for continuous service with MetLife through the third anniversary of the grant date and the other terms of MetLife s prevailing Management Restricted Stock Unit Agreement and the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan.
The number of Restricted Stock Units will be determined by dividing this amount by the closing price of MetLife, Inc. common stock on the grant date, and rounding up to the nearest whole number of Restricted Stock Units.
        Further, in consideration of your need to relocate in connection with this position, the Company will provide you with up
to $10,000 in monthly housing allowance, which will be grossed-up for all applicable tax withholding ( Housing Allowance ), for each of the first 12-months of your employment with MetLife. In order to receive each monthly Housing
Allowance, you must be employed out of our offices located at 1095 Avenue of the Americas and be a MetLife employee on the first day of each calendar month. The actual amount of monthly Housing Allowance will be limited to your submitted housing or
rental, expense incurred during that month. You will need to submit receipts or a copy of an executed lease agreement to substantiate your housing related expenses.      Additionally, provided you purchase a new primary residence on or before August 31, 2014, you will be eligible for a relocation allowance ( Relocation Allowance ) in the amount of $150,000,
less applicable taxes and other required wage withholding. This amount will be paid to you in a lump sum as soon as practicable after your submission of confirmatory documentation showing that you have purchased a new primary residence, which you
must do within 30 days after your purchase, provided you are still employed with MetLife on the date the payment is made. Moreover, should you voluntarily terminate your employment before the first anniversary of your employment start date, you will
be required to repay the full total amount of all Housing Allowances previously paid to you. Likewise, should you voluntarily terminate your employment within 12-months of receiving the Relocation Allowance, you will also be required to repay
MetLife the full amount of this payment. You will not have the opportunity to defer either your Relocation Allowance or Housing Allowance payments.      MetLife has an Executive Stock Ownership Program covering employees at the Senior Vice President level and above. The program provides that individuals in these positions should own MetLife, Inc. common
stock in an amount at least equal to a multiple from 2 to 7 times his or her annual base salary rate. At your executive officer level, you will be responsible for owning 3 times your annual base salary rate. Ownership includes shares and share
equivalents acquired through our long-term stock-based incentive award programs and other company sponsored programs such as the MetLife Company Stock Fund of the Savings and Investment Plan (called  SIP ) and the Auxiliary Savings and
Investment Plan, as well as shares purchased in the open market. While there is no official time frame for reaching the minimum ownership requirement, you are expected to hold all  profit shares  you receive from exercising any Stock
Options and any shares you receive (or defer) in payment from Performance Share or Restricted Stock Unit awards until you meet your expected ownership level.      Under MetLife s Insider Trading Policy, certain employees must obtain prior approval from the MetLife, Inc. Corporate Secretary s office before trading in MetLife securities, including
transactions involving MetLife, Inc. common stock. You will be subject to these requirements, and you will be notified and given instructions on how to request clearance for such transactions.   
         2   

MetLife has a competitive and comprehensive array of benefits designed to provide you with choice and
flexibility. Under our current program, you will be eligible for healthcare and dental coverage on the first of the month following 30 days of service. Our current program also provides for limited severance pay if your employment is involuntarily
terminated under certain circumstances. As an officer subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act, you are also covered under our current program providing limited severance pay if your employment ends
under certain circumstances following a change-in-control of MetLife, Inc. Your participation in MetLife s benefit programs is subject to the terms of each benefit plan. Basic information about MetLife s benefits and eligibility for those
programs can be found in the attached Benefits Overview, and more specific information about your benefits will be delivered shortly after your employment date. At that time, a member of the Executive Benefits team will contact you to set up an
introductory call to review all of your benefits-related enrollments.      In addition, you will be given the opportunity to defer select types of
compensation in accordance with the terms of the MetLife deferred compensation plans. You will receive additional details about compensation eligible for deferral shortly after your employment date. Please note that your sign-on payment and sign-on
RSU award are not eligible for deferral. Income taxes, including employment taxes, will be withheld and deposited as appropriate to each payment type described in this letter. Please review the specific information that will be provided to you
regarding each type of award or program described in this letter, because tax consequences can vary depending on the type of payment.   
  Beginning in 2013, you will be eligible for 22 paid-time-off (PTO) days and 3 Personal/Family days on an annual basis. You will also be provided with
ground transportation services for business and certain personal purposes consistent with MetLife s practices for executive officers.   
  Our offer is contingent on a satisfactory background check, which may include fingerprinting, professional reference checks, and the successful passing
of a drug-screening test (which should be completed as soon as possible). This offer is subject to withdrawal if, among other circumstances, the background check, reference checks or drug-screening test do not meet MetLife requirements. This offer
is also contingent upon your being able to produce evidence of your work authorization in the United States. If you require sponsorship, please let me know so we can review available options. Further, if you are restricted or limited in any way from
working for MetLife by the terms of any agreement with any prior employer, including but not limited to your current employer, it is critical that you bring this to my attention immediately before accepting this offer .  In accepting this
offer, you are making the representation to us that you are not subject to any such restrictions or limitations.      As a condition of
employment, you will be required to sign the attached Agreement to Protect Corporate Property. This agreement provides MetLife with measures of protection against the use of client relationships, solicitation of employees and the safeguarding of
confidential and proprietary information following the discontinuance of your employment with us.      This offer of employment is based on our
confidence that your employment with MetLife will be a mutually rewarding and enriching experience, but it is not an employment contract, and does not represent a guarantee of continued employment for any period of time. Employment at MetLife is
 employment at will,  which means that either you or MetLife may terminate the relationship at any time with or without cause or notice. For the avoidance of doubt, this letter supersedes any and all other letters previously provided to
you, and such other letters are hereby null and void and of no further effect.   
         3   

Ricardo, I look forward to your accepting our job offer, and I am confident you will be a great addition to
the team. There are many opportunities for strong leaders to contribute to the achievement of our vision and strategic objectives. I know you will find the position both challenging and rewarding. To accept our offer, please return one signed copy
of this letter and the enclosed Agreement to Protect Corporate Property to Jill Corsi in the enclosed envelope as soon as possible. Please feel free to give me a call with any questions that you may have at (212) 578-0337 or call Frans Hijkoop
at (212) 578-6882.       

Sincerely,   
     
    I accept this job offer.    

By:  
     
  /s/ Steven A. Kandarian  
     
  By:  
     
  /s/ Ricardo Anzaldua   

Steven A. Kandarian  

Ricardo Anzaldua   

Chairman, President      
Chief Executive Officer   

4   

</EX-10.14>

<EX-10.15>
 5
 d450627dex1015.htm
 EX-10.15

Ex-10.15 

Exhibit 10.15    

February 22, 2013      Michel Khalaf      President, EMEA   
  Dear Michel:   
  MetLife continues to make progress toward achieving its long-term goals and objectives and transforming the company into a world class
global insurance and employee benefits powerhouse. We recognize and appreciate that you engage in extensive travel to advance MetLife s business interests, and that business travel is a necessary part of your role. We also recognize that your
business travel may result in individual income tax liability in a variety of jurisdictions. As a result, MetLife, Inc. is willing to provide you with a tax equalization arrangement as described in this letter (the  Arrangement ),
retroactively effective as of January 1, 2012 (the  Effective Date ).       

1.  
    The purpose of the Arrangement is to provide you with the following  Tax Equalization : the cost to you of individual income taxes you owe
on account of your MetLife business travel on payments made to you by MetLife on and after the Effective Date and during the period covered by the Arrangement will equal the cost to you of income taxes you would have owed had that income been
taxable solely in your country of residence. For purposes of the Arrangement, your country of residence and taxing jurisdiction is defined as Dubai International Financial Center in the United Arab Emirates ( DIFC ).

2.  
    MetLife will pay amounts on your behalf (or reimburse you) and, to the extent necessary, take deductions or withhold amounts from your compensation
as MetLife reasonably determines necessary to effectuate Tax Equalization. You consent to such deductions or withholding.          

3.  
    To effectuate the purposes of the Arrangement, you agree to use a firm chosen by MetLife for tax return preparation, audit response/defense, and
related services during the term of the Arrangement. MetLife will bear the expense for the actual costs of such services and will gross up your compensation for any taxes you owe as a result of receiving such services. Due to certain tax law
requirements, all data MetLife needs to determine any amounts for a tax year must be provided within a time frame that permits MetLife to determine any tax amounts it is reimbursing or paying by the later of the end of your tax year following the
tax year in which (i) you remit taxes, or (ii) you conclude any tax audit or tax litigation.          

4.  
    MetLife will apply the Arrangement exclusively to compensation paid (and therefore taxable) to you during the period described in this letter as
covered by the Arrangement. MetLife will not bear the cost of any taxes, interest, penalties, or fees for tax return preparation, audit response/defense, or related services you incur for tax periods outside those covered by the Arrangement.
Consequently, the Arrangement does not apply to calendar years or tax periods prior to January 1, 2012, or to amounts like long-term incentives, that are paid in tax periods outside the Arrangement regardless of whether the compensation was fully or
partially earned or vested during the period covered by the Arrangement.      

5.  
    The Arrangement shall continue until the earliest of (a) the date your employment with MetLife is terminated for any reason, (b) the date MetLife
relocates or reassigns you to country other than DIFC; (c) the date you decline to accept relocation from MetLife to country other than DIFC; or (d) December 31, 2014. MetLife reserves the right to terminate the Arrangement if you do not comply with
the immigration and/or work permit documentation requirements of any jurisdiction to which you travel on behalf of the Company, or if at any time your job performance fails to meet MetLife s expectations.      

6.  
    Upon termination of the Arrangement, your entitlement to Tax Equalization on payments made to you thereafter shall cease. You will be personally
liable for any and all tax liability for payments made to you by MetLife on and after the date of the termination of the Arrangement as a result of business-related travel or otherwise at applicable rates, regardless of your continued employment
with MetLife and/or residence in the DIFC or otherwise.          

7.  
    Neither this letter nor the Arrangement itself should be construed as a guarantee of employment for any specific period of time. At all times, the
terms of your employment contract (as amended from time to time) govern. This letter is the entire agreement between you and MetLife regarding the Arrangement, and cannot be amended except by a written document signed by you and an officer of
MetLife, Inc. For purposes of this letter,  MetLife  shall refer to MetLife, Inc. and all of its affiliates. MetLife, Inc. may provide you the Arrangement either itself or through an affiliate incorporated in the United States or a
jurisdiction that has a comprehensive tax treaty with the United States,          

8.  
    The terms of this letter have been approved by the MetLife, Inc. Compensation Committee.      
  Please sign below to acknowledge the terms of the Arrangement and return an original to me at your earliest convenience.   
  Sincerely yours,      MetLife, Inc.       

By:  
     
    /s/ Frans Hijkoop    

Frans Hijkoop    

Executive Vice President and     Chief Human Resources Officer    

Accepted   Agreed:    

By:  
     
    /s/ Michel Khalaf    

Michel Khalaf    

</EX-10.15>

<EX-10.17>
 6
 d450627dex1017.htm
 EX-10.17

EX-10.17 

EXHIBIT 10.17      METLIFE, INC.      2000 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN   
  (AS AMENDED EFFECTIVE FEBRUARY 8, 2002)      ARTICLE I.      PURPOSE      The purpose of the  METLIFE, INC. 2000 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN  as it may be amended from time to time (the  Plan ) is to foster and promote the long-term financial success of the Company
and materially increase shareholder value by (a) motivating superior performance by means of performance-related incentives, (b) encouraging and providing for the acquisition of an ownership interest in the Company by the Company s
and its Subsidiaries  employees and Agents, and (c) enabling the Company to attract and retain the services of an outstanding management team upon whose judgment, interest, and special effort the successful conduct of its operations is
largely dependent.      ARTICLE II.      DEFINITIONS      2.1 Definitions. Whenever used herein, the following terms shall
have the respective meanings set forth below:      (a)  Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
     (b)  Agent  means an  insurance agent  as defined in Section 2101 of the New York Insurance Law.
     (c)  Approved Retirement  means termination of a Participant s employment (i) on or after the normal
retirement date or (ii) with the Committee s approval, on or after any early retirement date established under any retirement plan maintained by the Company or a Subsidiary and in which the Participant participates; provided that in each
case, the Committee may require, as a condition to a Participant s retirement being an  Approved Retirement  for purpose of the Plan, that the Participant enter into a general release of claims, non-solicitation and/or non-competition
agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Company.      (d)  Board  means the Board of Directors of the
Company.      (e)  Cause  means (i) the willful failure by the Participant to perform substantially his duties as
an Employee of the Company (other than due to physical or mental illness) after reasonable notice to the Participant of such failure, (ii) the   

Participant s engaging in serious misconduct that is injurious to the Company or any Subsidiary in any way, including, but not limited to, by way of damage to their respective reputations or
standings in their respective industries, (iii) the Participant s having been convicted of, or having entered a plea of nolo contendere to, a crime that constitutes a felony or (iv) the breach by the Participant of any written
covenant or agreement with the Company or any Subsidiary not to disclose or misuse any information pertaining to, or misuse any property of, the Company or any Subsidiary or not to compete or interfere with the Company or any Subsidiary.   
  (f)  Change of Control  shall be deemed to have occurred if:   
  (i) any person (within the meaning of Section 3(a)(9) of the Act), including any group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b) under
the Act), but excluding the MetLife Policyholder Trust (and any person(s) who would otherwise be described herein solely by reason of having the power to control the voting of the shares held by such Trust) and any employee benefit plan (or related
trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary thereof, acquires  beneficial ownership  (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 25% or more of the
combined Voting Power (as defined below) of the Company s securities; or      (ii) within any 24-month period, the persons
who were directors of the Company at the beginning of such period (the  Incumbent Directors ) shall cease to constitute at least a majority of the Board or the board of directors of any successor to the Company; provided, however, that any
director elected to the Board, or nominated for election, by a majority of the Incumbent Directors then still in office shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director for purposes of this subclause (ii); or   
  (iii) upon the consummation of a merger, consolidation, share exchange, division, sale or other disposition of all or substantially all
of the assets of the Company which has been approved by the shareholders of the Company (a  Corporate Event ), and immediately following the consummation of which the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to such Corporate Event do
not hold, directly or indirectly, a majority of the Voting Power of (x) in the case of a merger or consolidation, the surviving or resulting corporation, (y) in the case of a share exchange, the acquiring corporation or (z) in the
case of a division or a sale or other disposition of assets, each surviving, resulting or acquiring corporation which, immediately following the relevant Corporate Event, holds more than 25% of the consolidated assets of the Company immediately
prior to such Corporate Event; or   
         2   

(iv) any other event occurs which the Board declares to be a Change of Control.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change of Control shall not be deemed to have occurred merely as a result of (i) the
conversion of the Company from a mutual life insurance company to a stock company whose shareholders are either (x) primarily persons who were policyholders of the Company immediately prior to such transaction and/or a trust holding the shares
of the Company for the benefit of such policyholders or (y) another corporation the shares of which are held primarily by the persons and/or trust described in subclause (x); (ii) the Company becoming a direct or indirect subsidiary of a
mutual holding company whose members are primarily persons who were policyholders of the Company immediately prior to such transaction, (iii) an underwritten offering of the equity securities of the Company (including, without limitation, any
offering of any class of convertible preferred securities) effected in connection with the Demutualization or (iv) any other transaction that would constitute an  Other Capital Raising Transaction  within the meaning of the plan of
reorganization adopted by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company in connection with the Demutualization.      (g)  Change of
Control Price  means the highest price per share of Common Stock offered in conjunction with any transaction resulting in a Change of Control (as determined in good faith by the Committee if any part of the offered price is payable other than
in cash) or, in the case of a Change of Control occurring solely by reason of a change in the composition of the Board, the highest Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on any of the 30 trading days immediately preceding the date on which a Change
of Control occurs.      (h)  Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.   
  (i)  Committee  means the Compensation Committee of the Board or such other committee of the Board as the Board shall designate
from time to time, which committee shall consist of two or more members, each of whom shall be a  Non-Employee Director  within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 (or any successor rule thereto), as promulgated under the Act, and an  outside
director  within the meaning of section 162(m) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.      (j)
 Common Stock  means the common stock of the Company, par value $0.01 per share.      (k)  Company  means
MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor thereto.      (l)  Demutualization  means the demutualization
of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company pursuant to a plan of reorganization approved by the New York State Superintendent of Insurance under Section 7312 of the New York Insurance Law.   
         3   

(m)  Directors Plan  means the Company s 2000 Directors Stock Plan, as the
same may be amended from time to time.      (n)  Disability  has the meaning given in the Company s long-term
disability insurance policy or program as in effect from time to time.      (o)  Employee  means any officer or other
employee of the Company, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company or any Subsidiary (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion); provided, however, that with respect to Incentive Stock Options,  Employee  means any person who is
considered an employee of the Company or any Subsidiary for purposes of Treasury Regulation Section 1.421-7(h).      (p)
 Fair Market Value  means, on any date, the closing prices of the Common Stock as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system for the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other recognized quotation system on which
the trading prices of the Common Stock are quoted at the relevant time) on such date. In the event that there are no Common Stock transactions reported on such tape (or such other system) on such date, Fair Market Value shall mean the closing price
on the immediately preceding date on which Common Stock transactions were so reported.      (q)  Family Member  means,
as to a Participant, any (i) child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law (including adoptive relationships), of such
Participant, (ii) trust for the exclusive benefit of such persons and (iii) other entity owned solely by such persons.      (r)  Option  means the right to purchase Common Stock at a stated price for a specified period of time. For purposes of the Plan, an Option may be either (i) an  Incentive Stock
Option  (ISO) within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code or (ii) an option which is not an Incentive Stock Option (a  Nonstatutory Stock Option  (NSO)).   
  (s)  Participant  means any Employee or Agent designated by the Committee to participate in the Plan.   
  (t)  Plan Effective Date  means the  Plan Effective Date  determined under Section 5.2(b) of the Plan of
Reorganization, dated September 28, 1999, of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, as amended.      (u)  Subsidiary 
means any corporation or partnership in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of such corporation or of the capital interest or profits interest of such partnership.
     2.2 Gender and Number. Except when otherwise indicated by the context, words in the masculine gender used in the Plan shall
include the feminine gender, the singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the singular.   
         4   

ARTICLE III.      ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION      Participants in the Plan shall be those Employees
or Agents selected by the Committee to be granted Options pursuant to Article VI.      ARTICLE IV.   
  POWERS OF THE COMMITTEE      4.1 Power to Grant. The Committee shall determine the Participants to whom Options shall be granted and the terms and conditions of any and all such Options. The Committee may establish different terms
and conditions for different Participants and for the same Participant for each Option such Participant may receive, whether or not granted at different times. Notwithstanding any other contrary provision in the Plan, Options shall not be granted
prior to the first anniversary of the Plan Effective Date.      4.2 Certain Rules Relating to Grants.   
  (a) Maximum Individual Grants. During any consecutive five year period, no individual Participant may be granted Options to acquire more
than 5% of the total shares available under the Plan.      (b) Cumulative Grant Limits. The maximum number of Options (expressed
as a percentage of the total number of shares available under the Plan as set forth in Section 5.1) that may be awarded, on a cumulative basis (but excluding any forfeited, canceled or expired Options), shall be as follows:   

prior to the second  
  anniversary of the Plan Effective Date   
     
          60%          

prior to the third     anniversary of the Plan Effective Date   
     
  80%  

prior to the fourth  
  anniversary of the PlanEffective Date   
     
  100%  

(c) Repricing or Substitution of Options. The Committee shall not have the right to reprice outstanding
Options or to grant new Options under the Plan in substitution for or upon the cancellation of Options previously granted.   
  4.3 Administration.      (a) Rules, Interpretations and Determinations. The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall have full authority to interpret and administer the Plan, to establish, amend, and
rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, to provide for conditions deemed necessary or advisable to protect the interests of the Company, to construe the respective option agreements and to make all other determinations it determines
necessary or advisable for the administration and interpretation of the Plan in order to carry out its provisions and purposes. Determinations, interpretations, or other actions made or taken by the Committee shall be final, binding, and conclusive
for all purposes and upon all persons.   
         5   

(b) Agents and Expenses. The Committee may appoint agents (who may be officers or employees
of the Company) to assist in the administration of the Plan and may grant authority to such persons to execute agreements or other documents on its behalf. The Committee may employ such legal counsel, consultants and agents as it may deem desirable
for the administration of the Plan and may rely upon any opinion received from any such counsel or consultant and any computation received from any such consultant or agent. All expenses incurred in the administration of the Plan, including, without
limitation, for the engagement of any counsel, consultant or agent, shall be paid by the Company.   
         6   

4.4 Delegation of Authority. The Committee may delegate its duties, powers and authorities
under the Plan to the Company s Chief Executive Officer with respect to individuals who are below the position of Senior Vice President (or analogous title), pursuant to such conditions or limitations as the Committee may establish; provided
that only the Committee or the Board may select, and grant Options to, Participants who are subject to Section 16 of the Act. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the Chief Executive Officer grant (i) Options which, in the
aggregate, represent more than 1.5% of the total number of shares authorized for issuance under the Plan or (ii) to any single Participant in any twelve month period more than 5% of the total number of shares that the Chief Executive Officer is
authorized to grant. The Chief Executive Officer shall report periodically to the Committee regarding the nature and scope of the Options granted pursuant to the authority granted to him under this Section 4.4.   
  ARTICLE V.      STOCK
SUBJECT TO PLAN      5.1 Number. Subject to the provisions of Section 5.3, the number of shares of Common Stock issuable
under the Plan shall not exceed 5% of the total number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after the Plan Effective Date; provided that the number of shares issuable under the Plan shall be reduced by the number of shares issuable
pursuant to any  Options  granted pursuant to the Directors Plan (as such term is defined in the Directors Plan). The shares to be delivered under the Plan may consist, in whole or in part, of treasury Common Stock or authorized but
unissued Common Stock, not reserved for any other purpose.      5.2 Canceled, Terminated, or Forfeited Options. Any shares of
Common Stock subject to an Option which for any reason is canceled, terminated or otherwise settled without the issuance of any Common Stock (including, but not limited to, shares tendered to exercise outstanding Options or shares tendered or
withheld for taxes) shall again be available for Options under the Plan.   
         7   

5.3 Adjustment in Capitalization. In the event of any Common Stock dividend or Common Stock
split, recapitalization (including, but not limited, to the payment of an extraordinary dividend), merger, consolidation, combination, spin-off, distribution of assets to stockholders (other than ordinary cash dividends), exchange of shares, or
other similar corporate change, the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock available for Options under Section 5.1 or subject to outstanding Options and the respective exercise prices applicable to outstanding Options shall be appropriately
adjusted by the Committee and the Committee s determination shall be conclusive; provided, however, that no adjustment shall occur by reason of the issuance of Common Stock in accordance with the Demutualization and that any fractional shares
resulting from any such adjustment shall be disregarded.      ARTICLE VI.   
  STOCK OPTIONS   
  6.1 Grant of Options. Subject to the provisions of Section 4.1, Options may be granted to Participants at such time or times as
shall be determined by the Committee. Options granted under the Plan may be of two types: (i) Incentive Stock Options and (ii) Nonstatutory Stock Options. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Committee shall have complete discretion in
determining the number of Options, if any, to be granted to a Participant. Each Option shall be evidenced by an Option agreement that shall specify the type of Option granted, the exercise price, the duration of the Option, the number of shares of
Common Stock to which the Option pertains, and such other terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine which are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Options granted to a Participant who is an
Agent shall comply with the provisions of Section 4228 of the New York Insurance Law and any regulations thereunder.      6.2
Option Price. Nonstatutory Stock Options and Incentive Stock Options granted pursuant to the Plan shall have an exercise price no less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date the Option is granted.   
  6.3 Exercise of Options. One-third of each Nonstatutory Stock Option or Incentive Stock Option granted pursuant to the Plan shall become
exercisable on each of the first three anniversaries of the date such Option is granted; provided that in no event shall any Option be or become exercisable hereunder prior to the second anniversary of the Plan Effective Date and, if and to the
extent this proviso limits the exercisability of any Option, the portion so limited shall become exercisable on such second anniversary; provided, further, that the Committee may at the time of grant establish longer periods of service for Options
to become exercisable and may establish performance-based criteria for exercisability. Subject to the provisions of Article VII, once any portion of any Option has become exercisable it shall remain exercisable for its full term. The Committee shall
determine the term of each Nonstatutory Stock Option or Incentive Stock Option granted, but in no event shall any such Option be exercisable for more than 10 years after the date on which it is granted.   
         8   

6.4 Payment. The Committee shall establish procedures governing the exercise of Options. No
shares shall be delivered pursuant to any exercise of an Option unless arrangements satisfactory to the Committee have been made to assure full payment of the option price therefor. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, payment of the
option price may be made (i) in cash or its equivalent, (ii) by exchanging shares of Common Stock owned by the optionee (which are not the subject of any pledge or other security interest), (iii) through an arrangement with a broker
approved by the Company whereby payment of the exercise price is accomplished with the proceeds of the sale of Common Stock or (iv) by any combination of the foregoing; provided that the combined value of all cash and cash equivalents paid and
the Fair Market Value of any such Common Stock so tendered to the Company, valued as of the date of such tender, is at least equal to such option price. The Company may not make a loan to a Participant to facilitate such Participant s exercise
of any of his or her Options.      6.5 Incentive Stock Options. Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, no Option
that is intended to be an Incentive Stock Option may be granted after the tenth anniversary of the effective date of the Plan and no term of this Plan relating to Incentive Stock Options shall be interpreted, amended or altered, nor shall any
discretion or authority granted under the Plan be exercised, so as to disqualify the Plan under Section 422 of the Code, or, without the consent of any Participant affected thereby, to disqualify any Incentive Stock Option under such
Section 422.      ARTICLE VII.      TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT      7.1 Termination of Employment Due to Death. In the
event a Participant s employment terminates by reason of death, any Options granted to such Participant shall become immediately exercisable in full and may be exercised by the Participant s designated beneficiary, and if none is named, in
accordance with Section 10.2, at any time prior to the expiration of the term of the Options (or such shorter period as the Committee shall determine at the time of grant).   
  7.2 Termination of Employment Due to Approved Retirement or Qualification for Disability Benefits. In the event a Participant s
employment terminates by reason of Approved Retirement or a Participant qualifies for Disability benefits, any Options granted to such Participant which are then outstanding shall continue to become exercisable in accordance with Section 6.3
notwithstanding such qualification for benefits or termination of employment and may be exercised by the Participant or the Participant s designated beneficiary, and if none is named, in accordance with Section 10.2, at any time prior to
the expiration date of the term of the Options (or such shorter period as the Committee shall determine at the time of grant). Notwithstanding any other terms of Article VII of this Plan, if a Participant qualifies for Disability no subsequent
termination of employment, other than a termination of employment for Cause, shall affect any Options previously granted to such Participant which are then outstanding.   
         9   

7.3 Certain Divestitures, etc. In the event that a Participant s employment is
terminated in connection with a sale, divestiture, spin-off or other similar transaction involving a Subsidiary, division or business segment or unit, the Committee may provide at the time of grant or otherwise that all or any portion of any Options
granted to such Participant which are then outstanding shall continue to become exercisable in accordance with Section 6.3 notwithstanding such termination of employment and may be exercised by the Participant or the Participant s
designated beneficiary, and if none is named, in accordance with Section 10.2, at any time prior to the expiration date of the term of the Options or within three (3) years (or such shorter period as the Committee shall determine at or
following the time of grant) following the Participant s termination of employment, whichever period is shorter.      7.4
Termination of Employment for Cause. In the event a Participant s employment is terminated for Cause, any Options granted to such Participant that are then not yet exercised shall be forfeited.   
  7.5 Termination of Employment for Any Other Reason. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee at or following the time of grant, in
the event the employment of the Participant shall terminate for any reason other than one described in Section 7.1, 7.2, 7.3 or 7.4, any Options granted to such Participant which are exercisable at the date of the Participant s termination
of employment may be exercised at any time prior to the expiration of the term of the Options or the thirtieth day following the Participant s termination of employment, whichever period is shorter, and any Options that are not exercisable at
the time of termination of employment shall be forfeited.      ARTICLE VIII.   
  CHANGE OF CONTROL   
  8.1 Accelerated Vesting and Payment. Subject to the provisions of Section 8.2, in the event of a Change of Control each Option shall
be fully exercisable regardless of the exercise schedule otherwise applicable to such Option and, in connection with such a Change of Control, the Committee may, in its discretion, provide that each Option shall, upon the occurrence of such Change
of Control, be canceled in exchange for a payment in an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the Change of Control Price over the exercise price for such Option.      8.2 Alternative Awards. Notwithstanding Section 8.1, no cancellation, acceleration of exercisability, vesting, cash settlement or other payment shall occur with respect to any Option if the Committee
reasonably determines in good faith prior to the occurrence of a Change of Control that such Option shall be honored or assumed, or new rights substituted therefor (such honored, assumed or substituted award hereinafter called an  Alternative
Award ), by a Participant s employer (or the parent or an affiliate of such employer) immediately following the Change of Control; provided that any such Alternative Award must:   
         10   

(i) be based on stock which is traded on an established securities market, or that the
Committee reasonably believes will be so traded within 60 days after the Change of Control;      (ii) provide such Participant
with rights and entitlements substantially equivalent to or better than the rights, terms and conditions applicable under such Option, including, but not limited to, an identical or better exercise or vesting schedule and identical or better timing
and methods of payment;      (iii) have substantially equivalent economic value to such Option (determined at the time of the
Change of Control); and      (iv) have terms and conditions which provide that in the event that the Participant s
employment is involuntarily terminated or constructively terminated, any conditions on a Participant s rights under, or any restrictions on transfer or exercisability applicable to, each such Alternative Award shall be waived or shall lapse, as
the case may be.      For this purpose, a constructive termination shall mean a termination of employment by a Participant following a material
reduction in the Participant s base salary or a Participant s incentive compensation opportunity or a material reduction in the Participant s responsibilities, in either case without the Participant s written consent.   
  ARTICLE IX.   
  AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION, AND TERMINATION OF PLAN      The Board at any time may terminate the Plan, and from time to time may amend or modify the Plan; provided, however, that any amendment which would (i) increase the number of shares available for
issuance under the Plan, (ii) lower the minimum exercise price at which an Option may be granted or (iii) extend the maximum term for Options granted hereunder shall be subject to the approval of the Company s shareholders and no
amendment made prior to the fifth anniversary of the Plan Effective Date shall be or become effective without the consent of the New York Superintendent of Insurance. No amendment, modification, or termination of the Plan shall in any manner
adversely affect any Option theretofore granted under the Plan, without the consent of the Participant.      SECTION X.   
  MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS      10.1 Transferability of Options. No Options granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and
distribution; provided that the Committee may, in the Option agreement or otherwise, permit transfers of Nonstatutory Stock Options by gift or a domestic relations order to Family Members.   
         11   

10.2 Beneficiary Designation. Each Participant under the Plan may from time to time name any
beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) to whom any benefit under the Plan is to be paid or by whom any right under the Plan is to be exercised in case of his death. Each designation will revoke all prior
designations by the same Participant, shall be in a form prescribed by the Committee, and will be effective only when received by the Committee in writing during his lifetime. In the absence of any such effective designation, benefits remaining
unpaid at the Participant s death shall be paid to or exercised by the Participant s surviving spouse, if any, or otherwise to or by his estate.      10.3 Deferral of Payment. The Committee may, in the Option agreement or otherwise, permit a Participant to elect, upon such terms and conditions as the Committee may establish, to defer receipt of shares
of Common Stock that would otherwise be issued upon exercise of a Nonstatutory Stock Option.      10.4 No Guarantee of Employment
or Participation. Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Subsidiary to terminate any Participant s employment or service at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue in
the employ of the Company or any Subsidiary or any other affiliate of the Company. No Employee shall have a right to be selected as a Participant, or, having been so selected, to receive any future Options.   
  10.5 Tax Withholding. The Company shall have the power to withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, an amount
sufficient to satisfy Federal, state, and local withholding tax requirements on any Option under the Plan, and the Company may defer issuance of Common Stock until such requirements are satisfied. The Committee may, in its discretion, permit a
Participant to elect, subject to such conditions as the Committee shall impose, (i) to have shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable under the Plan withheld by the Company or (ii) to deliver to the Company previously acquired shares of
Common Stock having a Fair Market Value sufficient to satisfy such withholding tax obligation associated with the transaction.   
  10.6 Indemnification. Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee or of the Board shall be indemnified and held
harmless by the Company against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he may be made a party or in
which he may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan (in the absence of bad faith) and against and from any and all amounts paid by him in settlement thereof, with the Company s approval, or paid by him in
satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit, or proceeding against him; provided that he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he undertakes to handle and defend it on his
own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive and shall be independent of any other rights of indemnification to which such person may be entitled under the Company s Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws, by
contract, as a matter of law, or otherwise.   
         12   

10.7 No Limitation on Compensation. Nothing in the Plan shall be construed to limit the
right of the Company to establish other plans, provided that the Company shall not be permitted to establish any other stock option or stock incentive plans prior to the fifth anniversary of the Plan Effective Date without the advance approval of
the New York Superintendent of Insurance. Nothing in this Section 10.7 shall be construed to limit the ability of the Company to use stock in connection with any compensation arrangement, approved by the New York Superintendent of Insurance
pursuant to Section 10.1 and Schedule 3(c) of the Plan of Reorganization.      10.8 Requirements of Law. The granting of
Options and the issuance of shares of Common Stock shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.   
  10.9 Term of Plan. The Plan shall be effective upon its adoption by the Board and approval by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, the
sole shareholder of the Company and by the New York Superintendent of Insurance pursuant to Section 7312(w) of the New York Insurance Law. The Plan shall continue in effect, unless sooner terminated pursuant to Article IX, until no more shares
are available for issuance under the Plan.      10.10 Governing Law. The Plan, and all agreements hereunder, shall be construed in
accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to principles of conflict of laws.      10.11 No
Impact on Benefits. Except as may otherwise be specifically stated under any employee benefit plan, policy or program, Options shall not be treated as compensation for purposes of calculating an Employee s right under any such plan, policy or
program.      10.12 No Constraint on Corporate Action. Nothing in this Plan shall be construed (i) to limit, impair or
otherwise affect the Company s right or power to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or consolidate, or dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its
business or assets or (ii) except as provided in Article IX, to limit the right or power of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to take any action which such entity deems to be necessary or appropriate.   
         13   

</EX-10.17>

<EX-10.20>
 7
 d450627dex1020.htm
 EX-10.20

Ex-10.20 

EXHIBIT 10.20       METLIFE, INC.      2000 DIRECTORS STOCK PLAN   
  (AS AMENDED EFFECTIVE FEBRUARY 8, 2002)      ARTICLE I.      PURPOSE   
  The purposes of the  METLIFE, INC. 2000 DIRECTORS STOCK PLAN  (the  Plan ) are to enable the Company to attract,
retain and motivate the best qualified non-employee directors and to enhance a long-term mutuality of interests between the non-employee directors and stockholders of the Company by granting stock and stock options as provided herein.   
  ARTICLE II.   
  DEFINITIONS      2.1
Definitions. Whenever used herein, the following terms shall have the respective meanings set forth below:      (a)
 Award  means any Option or Share Award.      (b)  Board  means the Board of Directors of the Company.
     (c)  Cash Fees  means the amount of any fees that would, absent an election to receive an Elective Share Award
pursuant to the terms of the Plan, be payable by the Company in cash to a Participant for any services to be performed by the Participant.      (d)  Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.      (e)
 Committee  means the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board or such other committee of the Board as the Board shall designate from time to time, which committee shall consist of at least two members, each of whom shall
qualify as a Non-Employee Director within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 (or any successor rule thereto), as promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.      (f)  Common Stock  means the common stock of the Company, par value $0.01 per share.   

(g)  Company  means MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor
thereto.      (h)  Deferred Share  means a contractual right to receive one Share on a deferred basis in accordance with
the terms of the Plan.      (i)  Elective Share Award  means any award of Shares made by reason of the election of a
Participant to receive Shares in lieu of Cash Fees; provided that in no event shall any Elective Share Awards be issued prior to the second anniversary of the Plan Effective Date.   
  (j)  Fair Market Value  means, on any date, the closing price of a Share as reported in the principal consolidated transaction
reporting system for the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other recognized quotation system on which the trading prices of the Common Stock are quoted at the relevant time on such date). In the event that there are no Common Stock transactions
reported on such tape (or other system) on such date, Fair Market Value means the closing price on the immediately preceding date on which Common Stock transactions were so reported.   
  (k)  Family Member  means, as to a Participant, any (i) child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent,
spouse, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law (including adoptive relationships), of such Participant, (ii) trust for the exclusive benefit of such persons and (iii) other
entity owned solely by such persons.      (l)  Fee Share Award  means any award of Shares made at the direction of the
Committee in lieu of Cash Fees.      (m)  Option  means the right to purchase one Share at a stated purchase price on
the terms specified in Article V of the Plan. The Options are nonstatutory stock options not intended to qualify under Section 422 of the Code.      (n)  Participant  means a member of the Board who is not an officer or employee of the Company or any entity controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the Company, and is not the
beneficial owner of a controlling interest in the voting stock of the Company or of any entity that holds a controlling interest in the Company s voting stock.   
         2   

(o)  Plan  means the MetLife, Inc. 2000 Directors Stock Plan, as set forth herein
and as amended from time to time.      (p)  Plan Effective Date  means the  Plan Effective Date  determined
under Section 5.2(b) of the Plan of Reorganization, dated September 28, 1999, of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, as amended.      (q)  Share  means a share of Common Stock.      (r)  Share Award 
means any Elective Share Award or Fee Share Award.      (s)  Stock Account  means a memorandum account established to
record the deferral of certain compensation otherwise payable to a Participant which shall be deemed invested in Deferred Shares.      (t)  Stock Incentive Plan  means the MetLife, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, as the same may be amended from time to time.   
  2.2 Gender and Number. Except when otherwise indicated by the context, words in the masculine gender used in the Plan shall include the
feminine gender, the singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the singular.      ARTICLE III.   
  ADMINISTRATION   
  3.1 Rules, Interpretation and Determinations. The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall have full authority to
interpret and administer the Plan, to establish, amend and rescind rules for carrying out the Plan, to construe the respective option agreements and to make all other determinations and to take all other actions that it deems necessary or advisable
for administering the Plan. Each determination, interpretation or other action made or taken by the Committee shall be final and binding for all purposes and upon all persons.   
         3   

3.2 Agents and Expenses. The Committee may appoint agents (who may be officers or employees
of the Company) to assist in the administration of the Plan and may grant authority to such persons to execute agreements or other documents on its behalf. The Committee may employ such legal counsel, consultants and agents as it may deem desirable
for the administration of the Plan and may rely upon any opinion received from any such counsel or consultant and any computation received from any such consultant or agent. All expenses incurred in the administration of the Plan, including, without
limitation, for the engagement of any counsel, consultant or agent, shall be paid by the Company.      ARTICLE IV. SHARES;
ADJUSTMENT UPON CERTAIN EVENTS      4.1 Source of Shares. Shares to be issued under the Plan may consist, in whole or in part, of
treasury shares or authorized but unissued Shares not reserved for any other purpose.      4.2 Number of Share Awards. Subject to
the provisions of Section 4.5 hereof, the aggregate number of Shares that may be issued under the Plan as Share Awards under Article VI shall not exceed 500,000 Shares.      4.3 Number of Options. Subject to the provisions of Section 4.5 hereof, the aggregate number of Shares issuable under the Plan pursuant to Options shall not exceed 0.05% of the total number of Shares
outstanding immediately after the Plan Effective Date. In addition, Shares issuable pursuant to Options granted under the Plan shall reduce the number of Shares issuable under the Stock Incentive Plan.   
  4.4 Canceled, Terminated, or Forfeited Options. In the event Options are for any reason canceled, terminated or otherwise settled without
the issuance of any Common Stock (including, but not limited to, shares tendered to exercise outstanding Options or shares tendered or withheld for taxes), the Shares subject to such Options shall again be available for the granting of Options under
the Plan and the Stock Incentive Plan.   
         4   

4.5 Adjustment in Capitalization. In the event of any Share dividend or Share split,
recapitalization, merger, consolidation, combination, spin-off, distribution of assets to stockholders (other than ordinary cash dividends), exchange of shares, or other similar corporate change, the aggregate number of Shares available for Awards
pursuant to either Section 4.2 or Section 4.3, distributable in respect of Deferred Shares or subject to outstanding Options, and the respective exercise prices applicable to outstanding Options shall be appropriately adjusted by the Committee
and the Committee s determination shall be conclusive; provided that any fractional shares resulting from any such adjustment shall be disregarded.      ARTICLE V.      AWARDS AND TERMS OF OPTIONS   
  5.1 Grant. The Committee shall, subject to the approval of the Board, determine the Participants to whom Options shall be granted and,
subject to Section 5.2, the terms and conditions of any and all Options granted to Participants. In making such determination, the Committee shall give due consideration to such factors as it deems appropriate, including, but not limited to,
the performance of the Company. Any Options granted hereunder prior to the fifth anniversary of the Plan Effective Date shall be granted in substitution for a portion of the fees that would otherwise have been payable in cash to the Participant for
services as a director and not subject to a Share Award, in such manner and on such basis as the Committee shall reasonably determine (including, without limitation, by application of the Black-Scholes option valuation methodology). Notwithstanding
any other contrary provision in the Plan, no Options shall be granted prior to the first anniversary of the Plan Effective Date.      5.2 Option Agreement. Options shall be evidenced by a written option agreement embodying the following terms:      (a) Exercise Price. The exercise price per Share of an Option shall be not less than the Fair Market Value on the date such Option is granted.   
  (b) Period of Exercisability. Each Option granted hereunder shall be immediately exercisable; provided that in no event shall any Option
be or become exercisable hereunder prior to the second anniversary of the Plan Effective Date and, if and to the extent this proviso limits the exercisability of any Option, the portion so limited shall become exercisable on such second anniversary.
Each Option shall, if not previously exercised in accordance with the terms of the Plan,   
         5   

in all events expire upon the tenth (10th) anniversary of the date of the grant thereof. In the event a Participant ceases to provide services to the Company for any reason, the Participant
or, after the Participant s death, the Participant s estate or beneficiary, may exercise any Option held by the Participant at the date his or her service terminates until the tenth (10th) anniversary of the date the Option was
granted; provided, however, that if the Participant s service as a member of the Board terminates prior to the second anniversary of the Plan Effective Date, the Option may not be exercised prior to such second anniversary.   
  (c) Procedure for Exercise. A Participant electing to exercise one or more Options shall give written notice to the Secretary of the
Company of such election and of the number of Shares he has elected to purchase. No shares shall be delivered pursuant to any exercise of an Option unless arrangements satisfactory to the Committee have been made to assure full payment of the option
price therefor. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, payment of the option price may be made (i) in cash or its equivalent, (ii) by exchanging shares of Common Stock owned by the optionee (which are not the subject of any
pledge or other security interest), (iii) through an arrangement with a broker approved by the Company whereby payment of the exercise price is accomplished with the proceeds of the sale of Common Stock or (iv) by any combination of the
foregoing; provided that the combined value of all cash and cash equivalents paid and the Fair Market Value of any such Common Stock so tendered to the Company, valued as of the date of such tender, is at least equal to such option price. The
Company may not make a loan to a Participant to facilitate such Participant s exercise of any of his or her Options.   
         6   

ARTICLE VI.      SHARE AWARDS      6.1 Fee Share Awards. Commencing with respect to fees payable for
services rendered after the first anniversary of the Plan Effective Date, the Committee may require that up to one-half of the Cash Fees otherwise payable to a Participant be payable in Shares, issuable as of the first day of the calendar quarter
(or, with respect to the first Fee Share Award, the first day of the first calendar month after the twelve month anniversary of the Plan Effective Date) with respect to which the Cash Fees would otherwise have been payable to the Participant in cash
(the  Date of Issuance ). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Date of Issuance determined in the preceding sentence is not a business day, the grant of Shares shall be made on the next following business day. The number of Shares to be
issued as a Fee Share Award as of each Date of Issuance shall equal the greatest number of whole Shares derived from the quotient of (i) the dollar amount of the Cash Fees the Committee has determined to pay in Shares and (ii) the Fair Market
Value on the Date of Issuance. If, after the application of the preceding formula as of any Date of Issuance, there is a cash remainder, the Company shall pay the Participant the amount of such cash remainder as soon as practicable following such
Date of Issuance. In no event shall any Shares acquired pursuant to any Fee Share Award be sold by a Participant prior to the second anniversary of the Plan Effective Date.      6.2 Elective Share Awards. Commencing with respect to Cash Fees payable for services rendered after the second anniversary of the Plan Effective Date, a Participant may elect to have any portion of the
fees that would otherwise have been payable to the Participant in cash for services as a director (less any amounts paid as Fee Share Awards or, until the fifth anniversary of the Plan Effective Date, granted as Options) paid in Shares. The Date of
Issuance in respect of any Cash Fees which are part of the Participant s annual retainer fees shall be the first day of the calendar quarter with respect to which the related Cash Fees would otherwise have been payable to the Participant, and
in respect of any other Cash Fees, as of the first day of the calendar quarter following the quarter with respect to which such Cash Fees would otherwise have been payable to the Participant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Date of Issuance
determined in the preceding sentence is not a business day, the grant of Shares shall be made on the next following business day. The number of Shares to be issued as an Elective Share Award as of each Date of Issuance shall equal the greatest
number of whole Shares derived from the quotient of (i) the dollar amount of the Cash Fees elected to be paid in   
         7   

Shares at such Date of Issuance in accordance with the second preceding sentence and (ii) the Fair Market Value on the Date of Issuance. If, after the application of the preceding formula as
of any Date of Issuance, there is a cash remainder, the Company shall pay the Participant the amount of such cash remainder as soon as practicable following such Date of Issuance.   
  ARTICLE VII.   
  RECEIPT OF SHARE AWARDS      7.1 Election. A Participant may elect to defer receipt of all or any part of the Shares issuable to the Participant in respect of any Share Award. Any such election shall be made (i) as to which the
Date of Issuance is in the same calendar year in which the Plan becomes effective, within thirty days of the date this Plan is adopted and (ii) with respect to any other Fee Share Award or Elective Share Award, by December 31 of the
calendar year prior to the year in which the Date of Issuance would otherwise occur. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, any person who becomes a Participant after the adoption of the Plan may elect, not later than the end of the
calendar month in which the Participant becomes a member of the Board, to defer delivery of all or any part of the Shares deliverable in respect of any Share Award to be made following such election.   
  7.2 Form and Duration of Election. An election to defer receipt shall be made by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company.
Such election shall continue in effect (including with respect to Share Awards for subsequent calendar years) unless and until the Participant revokes or modifies such election by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company. Any such
revocation or modification of a deferral election shall become effective as of the end of the calendar year in which such notice is given and only with respect to Share Awards to be made in subsequent calendar years. Amounts credited to the
Participant s Stock Account prior to the effective date of any such revocation or modification of a deferral election shall not be affected by such revocation or modification and shall be distributed only in accordance with the otherwise
applicable terms of the Plan. A Participant who has revoked an election to participate in the Plan may file a new election to defer Share Awards with respect to Shares to be granted in the calendar year following the year in which such election is
filed.   
         8   

7.3 Stock Account. Any Share Award as to which a Participant has elected to defer delivery
of the Shares shall be credited to the Participant s Stock Account and shall be deemed to be invested in a number of Deferred Shares equal to the number of Shares that would otherwise have been delivered to the Participant. Whenever a dividend
other than a dividend payable in the form of Shares is declared with respect to the Shares, the number of Deferred Shares in the Participant s Stock Account shall be increased by the number of Deferred Shares determined by dividing (i) the
product of (A) the number of Deferred Shares in the Participant s Stock Account on the related dividend record date and (B) the amount of any cash dividend declared by the Company on a Share (or, in the case of any dividend
distributable in property other than Shares, the per share value of such dividend, as determined by the Company for purposes of income tax reporting) by (ii) the Fair Market Value on the related dividend payment date. In the case of any
dividend declared on Shares which is payable in Shares, the Participant s Stock Account shall be increased by the number of Deferred Shares equal to the product of (i) the number of Deferred Shares credited to the Participant s Stock
Account on the related dividend record date and (ii) the number of Shares (including any fraction thereof) distributable as a dividend on a Share. In the event of any change in the number or kind of outstanding Shares by reason of any
recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, stock split or any similar change affecting the Shares, other than a stock dividend as provided above, the Committee shall make an appropriate adjustment in the number of Deferred Shares
credited to the Participant s Stock Account.      7.4 Distribution from Accounts Upon Termination of Service as a Director.
All distributions from the Participant s Stock Account shall be made in Shares. At the time a Participant makes a deferral election pursuant to Section 7.1, the Participant shall also file with the Secretary of the Company a written
election with respect to whether such distribution (i) shall commence immediately following the date the Participant ceases to be a Participant or on the first business day of any calendar year following the calendar year in which the
Participant ceases to be a Participant and (ii) shall be in one lump-sum or in such number of annual installments (not to exceed ten) as the Participant may   
         9   

designate. If installments are elected, the number of Shares distributable with respect to each installment shall be equal to the number of Deferred Shares then credited to the Stock Account
times a fraction, the numerator of which is one (1) and the denominator of which is the number of installments (including the current installment) remaining to be paid. A Participant may at any time, and from time to time, change any distribution
election applicable to the Participant s Stock Account; provided that no election to change the timing of any such distribution shall be effective unless it is made in writing and received by the Secretary of the Company at least one full
calendar year prior to the time at which the Participant ceases to provide services to the Company. If a Participant fails to specify a commencement date for a distribution in accordance with this Section 7.4, such distribution shall commence
on the first business day of the calendar year immediately following the year in which the Participant ceases to be a Participant. If a Participant fails to specify whether distribution shall be made in a lump-sum or in a number of installments,
such distribution shall be made in a lump-sum. In the case of any distribution being made in annual installments, each installment after the first installment shall be paid on the first business day of each subsequent calendar year until the entire
amount subject to such installments shall have been paid.      ARTICLE VIII.   
  TRANSFERABILITY OF AWARDS      No Award shall be transferable by the Participant otherwise than by will or under the applicable laws of descent and distribution; provided that the Committee may, in the Option agreement or otherwise,
permit transfers of Options by gift or a domestic relations order to Family Members. In addition, no Award shall be assigned, negotiated, pledged or hypothecated in any way (whether by operation of law or otherwise), and no Award shall be subject to
execution, attachment or similar process. Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, negotiate, pledge or hypothecate any Award, or in the event of any levy upon any Award by reason of any attachment or similar process contrary to the provisions hereof,
such Award shall immediately become null and void.   
         10   

ARTICLE IX.      TERMINATION, MODIFICATION AND AMENDMENT      The Board at any time may terminate the
Plan, and from time to time may amend or modify the Plan; provided, however, that any amendment which would (i) increase the number of shares available for issuance under the Plan, (ii) lower the minimum exercise price at which an Option may be
granted or (iii) extend the maximum term for Options granted hereunder shall be subject to the approval of the Company s shareholders and no amendment made prior to the fifth anniversary of the Plan Effective Date shall be or become
effective without the consent of the New York Superintendent of Insurance. No amendment, modification, or termination of the Plan shall in any manner adversely affect any Option theretofore granted under the Plan, without the consent of the
Participant.      ARTICLE X.      GENERAL PROVISIONS      10.1 No Right to Remain as a Director. The Plan shall not
impose any obligations on the Company to retain any Participant as a director nor shall it impose any obligation on the part of any Participant to remain in service to the Company.   
  10.2 Investment Representation; Registration. If the Committee determines that the law so requires, the holder of an Option granted
hereunder or the recipient of Shares in respect of any Share Award shall execute and deliver to the Company a written statement, in form satisfactory to the Company, representing and warranting that he is purchasing or accepting the Shares then
acquired for his own account and not with a view to the resale or distribution thereof, that any subsequent offer for sale or sale of any such Shares shall be made either pursuant to (i) a registration statement on an appropriate form under the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which Registration Statement shall have become effective and shall be current with respect to the Shares being offered and sold, or (ii) a specific exemption from the registration requirements of the
Securities Act, and that in claiming such exemption the holder will, prior to any offer for sale or sale of such Shares, obtain a favorable written opinion from counsel approved by the Company as to the   
         11   

availability of such exemption. If at any time the Board shall determine in its discretion that the listing, registration or qualification of the Shares covered by the Plan upon any national
securities exchange or under any state or federal law, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body, is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the sale of Shares under the Plan, no Shares will be delivered
unless and until such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained, or otherwise provided for, free of any conditions not acceptable to the Company.   
  10.3 No Right to Specific Assets. Nothing contained in the Plan and no action taken pursuant to the Plan (including, without limitation,
the grant of any Award hereunder) shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind or any fiduciary relationship between the Company and any Participant, the executor, administrator or other personal representative or designated
beneficiary of such Participant, or any other persons. To the extent that any Participant or his executor, administrator, or other personal representative, as the case may be, acquires a right to receive any payment from the Company pursuant to the
Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company.      10.4 Rights as a
Stockholder. A Participant shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to any Shares covered by his Option or related to Deferred Shares until he shall have become the holder of record of such Shares.   
  10.5 Headings and Captions. The headings and captions herein are provided for reference and convenience only, shall not be considered
part of the Plan, and shall not be employed in the construction of the Plan.      10.6 Controlling Law. The Plan shall be
construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of Delaware without regard to conflict of laws.      10.7
Indemnification. Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee or of the Board shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably
incurred by him in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he may be made a party or in which he may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan (in the absence of bad faith)
and against and from any and all amounts paid by him in settlement thereof, with the Company s approval, or paid by him in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit, or proceeding against him; provided that he shall give the Company
an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he undertakes to handle and defend it on his own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive and shall be independent of any other rights of
indemnification to which such person may be entitled under the Company s Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws, by contract, as a matter of law, or otherwise.      10.8 Term of Plan. The Plan shall be effective upon its adoption by the Board and approval by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, the sole shareholder of the Company and by the New York Superintendent of
Insurance. The Plan shall continue in effect, unless sooner terminated pursuant to Article IX, until no more shares are available for issuance under the Plan.   
         12   

</EX-10.20>

<EX-10.24>
 8
 d450627dex1024.htm
 EX-10.24

EX-10.24 

Exhibit 10.24        MANAGEMENT STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT       MetLife, Inc. confirms that, on
 [grant date]  (the  Grant Date ), it granted you,  [name] ,  [number]  Stock Options (your  Options ). Each Option entitles you to purchase one Share for $ [closing price on date of grant]  per Share (the
 Exercise Price ). Your Options are subject to the terms and conditions of this Management Stock Option Agreement (this  Agreement ) and the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ).
      1.  Standard Terms of Your Options .  Except as provided in Sections 3 (Change of
Status) and 4 (Change of Control), one-third (1/3) of your Options will become exercisable on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of the Grant Date, and you may exercise your Options until the close of business on  [day prior to
the tenth (10  th   ) anniversary of the Grant Date]    (the  Standard Terms ). Neither this date, nor any other deadline for exercise of your Options under this Agreement, will be extended regardless of whether you are unable to exercise your
Options on that date because it is not a business day, due to trading limitations, or otherwise.    
   2.  Exercise of Your Options .        (a) You may exercise any of your Options that have become exercisable by notifying the Company, using procedures that will be established for this purpose, and paying for the Shares at the time you
exercise your Options. Any exercisable Options that you fail to exercise within the applicable period for exercise will be forfeited.      (b) You may pay the Exercise Price in one or more of the following ways: (1) in cash, (2) by exchanging Shares you already own (as long as those Shares are not subject to any pledge or
other security interest) at the Closing Price on the date of exchange, (3) to the extent permitted by law, through an arrangement with the broker designated by the Company in which the broker will use the proceeds of the sale of a sufficient
number of Shares to pay the Exercise Price, or (4) through a combination of the above. The combined value paid must have a value as of the date tendered that is at least equal to the Exercise Price.   
  (c) You must exercise your Options in accordance with the Company s insider trading policy and any applicable pre-trading
clearance procedures. Your exercise of Options or sale of Shares may be prohibited at certain times, or delayed, due to Share trading volume limitations imposed by the Company. The issuance of Shares pursuant to your Options is subject to all
applicable laws, rules and regulations, and to any approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required. No Shares will be issued upon exercise of any of your Options if that issuance or exercise would result in
a violation of applicable law, including the federal securities laws and any applicable state or foreign securities laws.   
  (d) The number of Shares issuable upon exercise of your Options shall be reduced to the nearest whole Share. If you retain some or
all of the Shares after you exercise your Options, you will receive evidence of ownership of those Shares.   
   3.  Change of Status .  For purposes of this Section 3, your transfer between the Company and an Affiliate, or among
Affiliates, will not be a termination of employment. In the event of a Change of Control, any applicable terms of Section 4 (Change of Control) will supersede the terms of this Section 3.   

(a)  Long-Term Disability . In the event you qualify for long-term disability
benefits under a plan or arrangement offered by the Company or an Affiliate for its Employees, the Standard Terms will continue to apply to your Options. Once this provision applies, no other change of status described in this Sections 3
(except the provision regarding termination for Cause) will affect your Options, even if you subsequently return to active service or your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates other than for Cause.   
  (b)  Death . In the event that your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates due to your death, all of your
Options will be immediately exercisable and will remain exercisable until the close of business on the Expiration Date.   
  (c)  Retirement . If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) on after your early
retirement date or normal retirement date (in each case determined under any ERISA qualified benefit plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate) ( Retirement ), the Standard Terms will continue to apply to your
Options.      (d)  Bridge Eligibility . If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates (other than for
Cause) with bridge eligibility for retirement-related medical benefits (determined under an ERISA qualified benefit plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate, if any) ( Bridge Eligibility ), and your separation
agreement (offered to you under the severance program offered by the Company or an Affiliate to its Employees) becomes final, the Standard Terms will continue to apply to your Options.   
  (e)  Termination for Cause . In the event that your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates for Cause, all of
your Options will be forfeited immediately.      (f)  Other Termination of Employment . Unless the
Committee determines otherwise, if no other provision in this Section 3 regarding change of status applies, including, for example, your voluntary termination of employment, your termination without Retirement or Bridge Eligibility, or your
termination by the Company or an Affiliate without Cause, then (a) your Options that are exercisable as of the date of termination will remain exercisable until the close of business on the 30   th    day after the date of your termination or until they would expire
under the Standard Terms, whichever period is shorter; and (b) all of your Options that are not exercisable at the date of termination of your employment with the Company or an Affiliate will be forfeited immediately.   
   4.  Change of Control .        (a) Except as provided in Section 4(b) and 4(c), and unless otherwise prohibited under law or by applicable rules of a national security exchange, if a Change of Control occurs:   
  (1) all of your unexercised Options will become exercisable immediately regardless of the applicable exercise schedule; and   
  (2) notwithstanding any provisions of Section 3 (Change of Status) to the contrary, if your employment with the Company or any
Affiliate terminates without Cause before the first anniversary of the Change of Control, your Options will remain exercisable until the earlier of: (a) their expiration under the Standard Terms; or (b) the first anniversary of the
termination of your employment. For purposes of this Section 4(a)(2), your transfer between the Company and an Affiliate, or among Affiliates, will not be a termination of employment.   
         2   

(b) Notwithstanding Section 4(a), the Committee may elect to redeem your Options
for a cash payment equal to the Change of Control Price less the Exercise Price, multiplied by the number of exercisable Options that you have not yet exercised.      (c) The terms of Sections 4(a) and 4(b) will not apply to your Options if the Committee reasonably determines in good faith, prior to the Change of Control, that you have been granted an Alternative
Award for your Options pursuant to Section 15.2 of the Plan.       5.  Nontransferability of Awards .  Except
as provided in Section 6 or otherwise permitted by the Committee, you may not sell, transfer, pledge, assign or otherwise alienate or hypothecate any of your Options, and all rights with respect to your Options are exercisable during your
lifetime only by you.       6.  Beneficiary Designation .  You may name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may
be named contingently or successively) who may then exercise any right under this Agreement in the event of your death. Each beneficiary designation for such purpose will revoke all such prior designations. Beneficiary designations must be properly
completed on a form prescribed by the Committee and must be filed with the Company during your lifetime. If you have not designated a beneficiary, your rights under this Agreement will pass to and may be exercised by your estate.   
   7.  Tax Withholding .  The Company will withhold from payment made under this Agreement, or require you to remit, an
amount sufficient to satisfy the minimum statutory Federal, state, and local tax withholding requirements relating to the exercise of your Options. The Company will defer payment of cash or the issuance of Shares until this requirement is satisfied.
You may satisfy this withholding requirement by: (a) paying cash to the Company to cover the tax obligation; (b) having Shares otherwise issuable upon the exercise of your Options withheld by the Company at the Closing Price of those
Shares as of the date of exercise applied to cover the tax obligation; or (c) delivering previously acquired Shares to the Company having a Closing Price value as of the date of exercise equal to all or part of the tax obligation associated
with the transaction, and cash equal to the balance of the tax obligation.       8.  Adjustments .  The Committee
will make appropriate adjustments in the terms and conditions of your Options in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements (such as a Common Stock dividend, Common Stock split, recapitalization,
payment of an extraordinary dividend, merger, consolidation, combination, spin-off, distribution of assets to stockholders other than ordinary cash dividends, exchange of shares, or other similar corporate change), or in recognition of changes to
applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, to prevent unintended dilution or enlargement of the potential benefits of your Options. The Committee s determinations in this regard will be conclusive.   
   9.  Closing Price.   For purpose of this Agreement,  Closing Price  will mean the closing price of a Share as
reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system for the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other recognized quotation system on which the trading   
         3   

prices of the Shares are quoted at the relevant time), or in the event that there are no Share transactions reported on such tape or other system on the applicable date, the closing price on the
immediately preceding date on which Share transactions were reported. Closing Price shall constitute  Fair Market Value  under the Plan for all purposes related to your Options.   
   10.  No Guarantee of Employment  . This Agreement is not a contract of employment and it is not a guarantee of employment
for life or any period of time. Nothing in this Agreement interferes with or limits in any way the right of the Company or an Affiliate to terminate your employment at any time. This Agreement does not give you any right to continue in the employ of
the Company or an Affiliate.       11.  Governing Law; Choice of Forum .  This Agreement will be construed in
accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of the law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws. Any action to enforce this Agreement or any action otherwise regarding this Agreement must be
brought in a court in the State of New York, to which jurisdiction the Company and you consent.   
   12.  Miscellaneous .  For purposes of this Agreement,  Committee  includes any direct or indirect delegate of
the Committee as defined in the Plan and the word  Section  refers to a Section in this Agreement. Any other capitalized word used in this Agreement and not defined in this Agreement, including each form of that word, is defined in the
Plan. Any determination or interpretation by the Committee pursuant to this Agreement will be final and conclusive. In the event of a conflict between any term of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan control. This
Agreement and the Plan represent the entire agreement between you and the Company, and you and all Affiliates, regarding your Options. No promises, terms, or agreements of any kind regarding your Options that are not set forth, or referred to, in
this Agreement or in the Plan are part of this Agreement. In the event any provision of this Agreement is held illegal or invalid, the rest of this Agreement will remain enforceable. If you are an Employee of an Affiliate, your Options are being
provided to you by the Company on behalf of that Affiliate, and the value of your Options will be considered a compensation obligation of that Affiliate. The Committee may, in its discretion, substitute Stock Appreciation Rights for your Options to
the extent permitted by the Plan.   
         4   

13.  Amendments .  The Committee has the exclusive right to amend this
Agreement as long as the amendment does not adversely affect any of your previously-granted Awards in any material way (without your written consent) and is otherwise consistent with the Plan. The Company will give written notice to you (or, in the
event of your death, to your beneficiary or estate) of any amendment as promptly as practicable after its adoption.   
   14.  Agreement to Protect Corporate Property .  The grant of your Options is subject to your execution of the Agreement
to Protect Corporate Property provided to you with this Agreement ( Property Agreement ). If you do not return a signed copy of the Property Agreement, this Agreement and the Options granted to you will be void. The Company may in its sole
discretion allow an extension of time for you to return your signed Property Agreement.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has
caused its duly authorized officer to execute this Agreement, and you have executed this Agreement.       

METLIFE, INC.  

EMPLOYEE   

By:  
     
  C. Robert Henrikson  

[name]    

Name  

Chairman of the Board,     President and Chief Executive Officer   

Title  

Signature  

Signature   

Date:  

5   

</EX-10.24>

<EX-10.25>
 9
 d450627dex1025.htm
 EX-10.25

EX-10.25 

Exhibit 10.25        AMENDMENT TO STOCK OPTION AGREEMENTS       Pursuant to the MetLife, Inc. 2005
Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ), MetLife, Inc. hereby amends each of your Stock Option Agreements under the Plan (the  Agreements ) as of April 25, 2007, as follows (this  Amendment ):
     1. Section 8 of each Agreement is restated in its entirety as follows:   
   8.  Adjustments  . The Committee will make appropriate adjustments in the terms and conditions of your Options in recognition
of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements (such as a Common Stock dividend, Common Stock split, recapitalization, payment of an extraordinary dividend, merger, consolidation, combination, spin-off,
distribution of assets to stockholders other than ordinary cash dividends, exchange of shares, or other similar corporate change), or in recognition of changes to applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, to prevent unintended dilution
or enlargement of the potential benefits of your Options. The Committee s determinations in this regard will be conclusive.      2. Any capitalized word used in this Amendment is defined in the Plan or each Agreement. This Amendment will be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware,
regardless of the law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws. This Amendment, the Agreements, and the Plan represent the entire agreements between you and the Company, and you and all Affiliates, regarding your Options and no
other promises, terms, or agreements of any kind regarding your Options apply. In the event any provision of this Amendment is held illegal or invalid, the rest of the Amendment will remain enforceable. In no event will this amendment be construed
in a manner that would cause you to incur a penalty under Code Section 409A.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused
its duly authorized officer to execute this Amendment.       

METLIFE, INC.    

By:  
     
  /s/ C. Robert Henrikson   

Name   

Chairman of the Board, President and CEO   

Title   

/s/ C. Robert Henrikson   

Signature   

</EX-10.25>

<EX-10.30>
 10
 d450627dex1030.htm
 EX-10.30

EX-10.30 

Exhibit 10.30       MANAGEMENT RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT       MetLife, Inc. confirms that,
on  [grant date]  (the  Grant Date ), it granted you,  [name] ,  [number]  Restricted Stock Units (your  Units ). Your Units are subject to the terms and conditions of this Management Restricted Stock Unit
Agreement (this  Agreement ) and the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ).   
   1.  Standard Settlement Terms .  Except as provided in Sections 2 (Change of Status) and 3 (Change of Control), the
Period of Restriction for your Units will expire, and each of your Units will be due and payable in the form of Shares, on the third anniversary of the Grant Date (the  Standard Settlement Terms ).   
   2.  Change of Status .  For purposes of this Section 2, your transfer between the Company and an Affiliate, or among
Affiliates, will not be a termination of employment. In the event of a Change of Control, any applicable terms of Section 3 (Change of Control) will supersede the terms of this Section 2.   
  (a)  Long-Term Disability . In the event you qualify for long-term disability benefits under a plan or arrangement offered by
the Company or an Affiliate for its Employees, each of your Units will be due and payable in the form of Shares. Once this provision applies, no other change of status described in this Section 2 (except the provision regarding termination for
Cause) will affect your Units, even if you subsequently return to active service or your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates other than for Cause.      (b)  Death . In the event that your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates due to your death, each of your Units will be due and payable in the form of Shares (or cash at a value
equal to the Closing Price on the date of your death, if so determined by the Committee).       (c)  Retirement .
If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) on after your early retirement date or normal retirement date (in each case determined under any ERISA qualified pension plan offered by the Company or an
Affiliate in which you participate, if any) ( Retirement ), the Standard Settlement Terms will continue to apply to your Units.      (d)  Bridge Eligibility . If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) with bridge eligibility for retirement-related medical benefits (determined under
the ERISA qualified benefit plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate, if any) ( Bridge Eligibility ), and your separation agreement (offered to you under the severance program offered by the Company or an
Affiliate to its Employees) becomes final, the Standard Settlement Terms will continue to apply to your Units.   
  (e)  Termination for Cause . In the event that your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates for Cause, your
Units will be forfeited immediately.      (f)  Other Termination of Employment . Unless the Committee determines
otherwise, if no other provision in this Section 2 regarding change of status applies, including, for example, your voluntary termination of employment, your termination without Retirement or Bridge Eligibility, or the termination of your
employment by the Company or an Affiliate without Cause, your Units will be forfeited immediately unless you are offered a separation agreement by the Company or an Affiliate under a severance program. To the extent your separation agreement becomes
final, your Prorated   

Units will be due and payable to you. The number of your  Prorated Units  will be determined by
dividing the number of calendar months, beginning with the month of the Grant Date, that have ended as of the end of the month of the termination of your employment by thirty-six (36), multiplying the result by the number of your Units, and rounding
to the nearest whole number;  provided, however , that if the date of the termination of your employment is prior to the first anniversary of the Grant Date , then the number of your Prorated Units shall be zero (0). Payment for each of your
Units will be made in cash at a value equal to the Closing Price on the Grant Date, and shall be rounded to the nearest one-hundred dollars ($100.00). If your separation agreement does not become final, your Units will be forfeited.   
   3.  Change of Control .        (a) Except as provided in Section 3(b), and unless otherwise prohibited under law or by applicable rules of a national security exchange, if a Change of Control occurs, your Units will be due
and payable in the form of cash equal to the number of your Units multiplied by the Change of Control Price.      (b) The
terms of Section 3(a) will not apply to your Units if the Committee reasonably determines in good faith, prior to the Change of Control, that you have been granted an Alternative Award for your Units pursuant to Section 15.2 of the Plan.
Any such Alternative Award shall not accelerate the timing of payment or otherwise violate Code Section 409A, to the extent such Code section is applicable to your Units.       4.  Nontransferability of Awards .  Except as provided in Section 5 or as otherwise permitted by the Committee, you may not sell, transfer, pledge, assign or otherwise alienate or
hypothecate any of your Units, and all rights with respect to your Units are exercisable during your lifetime only by you.   
   5.  Beneficiary Designation .  You may name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or
successively) who may then exercise any right under this Agreement in the event of your death. Each beneficiary designation for such purpose will revoke all such prior designations. Beneficiary designations must be properly completed on a form
prescribed by the Committee and must be filed with the Company during your lifetime. If you have not designated a beneficiary, your rights under this Agreement will pass to and may be exercised by your estate.   
   6.  Tax Withholding .  The Company will withhold from payment made under this Agreement an amount sufficient to satisfy
the minimum statutory Federal, state, and local tax withholding requirements relating to payment on account of your Units.   
   7.  Adjustments .  The Committee will make appropriate adjustments in the terms and conditions of your Units in
recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements (such as a Common Stock dividend, Common Stock split, recapitalization, payment of an extraordinary dividend, merger, consolidation, combination,
spin-off, distribution of assets to stockholders other than ordinary cash dividends, exchange of shares, or other similar corporate change), or in recognition of changes to applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, to prevent
unintended dilution or enlargement of the potential benefits of your Units. The Committee s determinations in this regard will be conclusive.   
         2   

8.  Timing of Payment  .   
  (a) To the extent applicable, this Agreement is intended to comply with Code Section 409A and shall be interpreted accordingly.
If Shares are to be paid to you, you will receive evidence of ownership of those Shares.      (b) If payment is due and
payable under Section 2(a), it will be made within thirty (30) days after your qualification for long-term disability benefits under a plan or arrangement offered by the Company or an Affiliate for its Employees.   
  (c) If payment is due and payable under Section 2(b), it will be made upon your death.   
  (d) If payment is due and payable under Section 2(f), it will be made six (6) months after the termination of your
employment (or six (6) months after your  separation from service  under Code Section 409A, if that is a different date).      (e) If payment is due and payable under Section 3(a), and the Change of Control that causes payment to be due and payable is a  change of control  as defined under Code
Section 409A, such sum shall be paid to you within thirty (30) days after the Change of Control. If payment is due and payable under Section 3(a), and the Change of Control that causes payment to be due and payable is not a
 change of control  as defined under Code Section 409A, such sum shall be paid to you at the time determined under Section 8(f).      (f) If payment is due and payable under the Standard Settlement Terms and you have chosen to defer payment under an applicable deferred compensation plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate,
payment will be made at the time determined under that plan. If payment is due and payable under the Standard Settlement Terms and you have not chosen to defer payment under an applicable deferred compensation plan offered by the Company or an
Affiliate, payment will be made within thirty (30) days after the Period of Restriction for your Units expires.   
   9.  Closing Price.   For purposes of this Agreement, Closing Price will mean the closing price of a Share as reported in
the principal consolidated transaction reporting system for the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other recognized quotation system on which the trading prices of the Shares are quoted at the relevant time), or in the event that there are no Share
transactions reported on such tape or other system on the applicable date, the closing price on the immediately preceding date on which Share transactions were reported. Closing Price shall constitute  Fair Market Value  under the Plan for
all purposes related to your Units.       10.  No Guarantee of Employment  . This Agreement is not a contract of
employment and it is not a guarantee of employment for life or any period of time. Nothing in this Agreement interferes with or limits in any way the right of the Company or an Affiliate to terminate your employment at any time. This Agreement does
not give you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or an Affiliate.       11.  Governing Law; Choice of
Forum .  This Agreement will be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of the law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws. Any action to enforce this Agreement or any
action otherwise regarding this Agreement must be brought in a court in the State of New York, to which jurisdiction the Company and you consent.   
         3   

12.  Miscellaneous .  For purposes of this Agreement,  Committee 
includes any direct or indirect delegate of the Committee as defined in the Plan, and the word  Section  refers to a Section in this Agreement. Any other capitalized word used in this Agreement and not defined in this Agreement, including
each form of that word, is defined in the Plan. Any determination or interpretation by the Committee pursuant to this Agreement will be final and conclusive. In the event of a conflict between any term of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan,
the terms of the Plan control. This Agreement and the Plan represent the entire agreement between you and the Company, and you and all Affiliates regarding your Units. No promises, terms, or agreements of any kind regarding your Units that are not
set forth, or referred to, in this Agreement or in the Plan are part of this Agreement. In the event any provision of this Agreement is held illegal or invalid, the rest of this Agreement will remain enforceable. If you are an Employee of an
Affiliate, your Units are being provided to you by the Company on behalf of that Affiliate, and the value of your Units will be considered a compensation obligation of that Affiliate. Your Units are not Shares and do not give you the rights of a
holder of Shares. You will not be credited with additional Units on account of any dividend paid on Shares. The issuance of Shares or payment of cash pursuant to your Units is subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and to any
approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required. No Shares will be issued or no cash will be paid if that issuance or payment would result in a violation of applicable law, including the federal securities
laws and any applicable state or foreign securities laws.       13.  Amendments .  The Committee has the exclusive
right to amend this Agreement as long as the amendment does not adversely affect any of your previously-granted Awards in any material way (without your written consent) and is otherwise consistent with the Plan. The Company will give written notice
to you (or, in the event of your death, to your beneficiary or estate) of any amendment as promptly as practicable after its adoption.       14.  Agreement to Protect Corporate Property .  The grant of your Units is subject to your execution of the Agreement to Protect Corporate Property provided to you with this Agreement
( Property Agreement ). If you do not return a signed copy of the Property Agreement, this Agreement and the Units granted to you will be void. The Company may in its sole discretion allow an extension of time for you to return your signed
Property Agreement.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to execute this Agreement, and you
have executed this Agreement.       

METLIFE, INC.  

EMPLOYEE   

By:  
     
  C. Robert Henrikson  

[name]     

Name  

Chairman of the Board,     President and Chief Executive Officer   

Title  

Signature  

Signature   

Date:  

</EX-10.30>

<EX-10.38>
 11
 d450627dex1038.htm
 EX-10.38

EX-10.38 

Exhibit 10.38    
   MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SHARE AGREEMENT       MetLife, Inc. confirms that, on  [grant date]  (the  Grant Date ), it granted you,  [name] ,  [number]  Performance Shares (your  Performance Shares ). Your Performance
Shares are subject to the terms and conditions of this Management Performance Share Agreement (this  Agreement ) and the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ).   
   1.  Standard Performance Terms .        (a) The terms of this Section 1 shall be referred to as the  Standard Performance Terms  and will apply to your Performance Shares except in so far as Sections 2 (Change of
Status) or 3 (Change of Control) apply.      (b) The Performance Period for your Performance Shares will begin on
 [date] ,  [year]  and end on the December 31 immediately preceding the third anniversary of the beginning of the Performance Period. After the conclusion of the Performance Period, the Committee shall certify in writing the number of
Performance Shares payable in accordance with Section 1(c) (your  Final Performance Shares ), and your Final Performance Shares will be due and payable in Shares.   
  (c) The Committee will determine your Final Performance Shares by multiplying your Performance Shares by the  Performance
Factor.  The Performance Factor means a percentage (from zero to 200%) which is the sum of two other percentages (each from zero to 100%), described in (1) and (2) below.   
  (1) The first percentage will be based on the Company s performance with respect to Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available
to Common Shareholders Per Share during the Performance Period relative to the other companies in the Standard and Poor s Insurance Index, determined according to Table 1 of Schedule A to this Agreement. For this purpose,
(a)  Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share  for any period means net income, excluding: (1) after-tax net investment gains and losses, (2) after-tax adjustments related to net investment gains and
losses, (3) after-tax discontinued operations other than discontinued real estate, and (4) preferred stock dividends, in each case determined according to generally accepted accounting principles, divided by the weighted average number of
shares outstanding during such period determined on a diluted basis under generally accepted accounting principles; and (b)  Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share  means Net Operating Income
Available to Common Shareholders Per Share in the final calendar year of the Performance Period divided by Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share in the calendar year immediately preceding the beginning of the Performance
Period.      (2) The second percentage will be based on the Company s performance with respect to Proportionate Total
Shareholder Return during the Performance Period relative to the other companies in the Standard and Poor s Insurance Index, determined according to Table 2 of Schedule A to this Agreement. For this purpose, (a)  Initial Closing
Price  means the average Closing Price (and, in the case of a company other than the Company, the most closely analogous price) in the twenty (20) trading days prior to the first day of the Performance Period; (b)  Final Closing
Price  means the average Closing Price (and, the case of a company other than the Company, the most closely analogous price) in the twenty (20) trading days prior   

to and including the final day of the Performance Period; (c)  Total Shareholder Return  means the change (plus or minus) from the Initial Closing Price to the Final Closing Price,
plus dividends (if any) actually paid on Shares (or, in the case of a company other than the Company, the most closely analogous security) on a reinvested basis from the first day of the Performance Period to and including the last day of the
Performance Period; and (d)  Proportionate Total Shareholder Return  means Total Shareholder Return divided by Initial Closing Price.      (d) For these purposes, the Standard   Poor s Insurance Index means each company which is described by either of the following criteria:   
  (1) the company is included in such index for the entirety of the Performance Period; or   
  (2) the company is included in such index on the final day of the Performance Period, and at least fifty percent (50%) of the
securities entitled to vote for the directors of that company were owned, directly or indirectly, immediately after and as the result of a merger, acquisition, or other similar corporate transaction, by a majority of the shareholders (determined
immediately prior to such transaction) of a company that was either: (i) included in such index on the first day of the Performance Period, or (ii) described by this Section 1(d)(2).   
   2.  Change of Status .  For purposes of this Section 2, your transfer between the Company and an Affiliate, or among
Affiliates, will not be a termination of employment. In the event of a Change of Control, any applicable terms of Section 3 (Change of Control) will supersede the terms of this Section 2.   
  (a)  Long-Term Disability . In the event you qualify for long-term disability benefits under a plan or arrangement offered by
the Company or an Affiliate for its Employees, the Standard Performance Terms will continue to apply to your Performance Shares. Once this provision applies, no other change of status described in this Section 2 (except the provision regarding
termination for Cause) will affect your Performance Shares, even if you subsequently return to active service or your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates other than for Cause.   
  (b)  Death . In the event that your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates due to your death, your Performance
Shares will be due and payable in Shares (or cash at a value equal to the Closing Price on the date of your death, if so determined by the Committee).      (c)  Retirement . If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) on after your early retirement date or normal retirement date (in each case determined
under any ERISA qualified pension plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate) ( Retirement ), the Standard Performance Terms will continue to apply to your Performance Shares.   
  (d)  Bridge Eligibility . If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) with bridge
eligibility for retirement-related medical benefits (determined under an ERISA qualified benefit plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate, if any) ( Bridge Eligibility ), and your separation agreement (offered
to you under the severance program offered by the Company or an Affiliate to its Employees) becomes final, the Standard Performance Terms will continue to apply to your Performance Shares.   
         2   

(e)  Termination for Cause . In the event that your employment with the Company or
an Affiliate terminates for Cause, your Performance Shares will be forfeited immediately.      (f)  Other Termination of
Employment . Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if no other provision in this Section 2 regarding change of status applies, including, for example, your voluntary termination of employment, your termination without Retirement or
Bridge Eligibility, or your termination by the Company or an Affiliate without Cause, your Performance Shares will be forfeited immediately. To the extent you are offered a separation agreement by the Company or an Affiliate, the value of your
forfeited Performance Shares may, in the discretion of the Company or Affiliate, be considered in determining the terms of that offer.       3.  Change of Control .        (a) Except as provided in
Section 3(b), and unless otherwise prohibited under law or by applicable rules of a national security exchange, if a Change of Control occurs, your Performance Shares will be due and payable in the form of cash equal to the number of your
Performance Shares multiplied by the Change of Control Price, and such sum shall be paid to you within thirty (30) days of the Change of Control.      (b) The terms of Section 3(a) will not apply to your Performance Shares if the Committee reasonably determines in good faith, prior to the Change of Control, that you have been granted an
Alternative Award for your Performance Shares pursuant to Section 15.2 of the Plan.       4.  Nontransferability of
Awards .  Except as provided in Section 5 or as otherwise permitted by the Committee, you may not sell, transfer, pledge, assign or otherwise alienate or hypothecate any of your Performance Shares, and all rights with respect to your
Performance Shares are exercisable during your lifetime only by you.       5.  Beneficiary Designation .  You may
name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) who may then exercise any right under this Agreement in the event of your death. Each beneficiary designation for such purpose will revoke all such prior
designations. Beneficiary designations must be properly completed on a form prescribed by the Committee and must be filed with the Company during your lifetime. If you have not designated a beneficiary, your rights under this Agreement will pass to
and may be exercised by your estate.       6.  Tax Withholding .  The Company will withhold from payment made under
this Agreement an amount sufficient to satisfy the minimum statutory Federal, state, and local tax withholding requirements relating to payment on account of your Performance Shares.   
   7.  Adjustments .  The Committee will make appropriate adjustments in the terms and conditions of your Performance Shares
in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements (such as a Common Stock dividend, Common Stock split, recapitalization, payment of an extraordinary dividend, merger, consolidation, combination,
spin-off, distribution of assets to stockholders other than ordinary cash dividends, exchange of shares, or other similar corporate change), or in recognition of changes to applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, to prevent
unintended dilution or enlargement of the potential benefits of your Performance Shares. The Committee s determinations in this regard will be conclusive.   
         3   

8.  Timing of Payment .  The Company will make payment to you as soon as
reasonably practicable after such payment becomes payable under this Agreement, unless you have earlier deferred such payment in accordance with arrangements offered to you for that purpose. If Shares are to be paid to you, you will receive evidence
of ownership of those Shares.       9.  Closing Price .  For purpose of this Agreement,  Closing Price 
will mean the closing price of a Share as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system for the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other recognized quotation system on which the trading prices of the Shares are quoted at the
relevant time), or in the event that there are no Share transactions reported on such tape or other system on the applicable date, the closing price on the immediately preceding date on which Share transactions were reported. Closing Price shall
constitute  Fair Market Value  under the Plan for all purposes related to your Performance Shares.   
   10.  No Guarantee of Employment .  This Agreement is not a contract of employment and it is not a guarantee of employment
for life or any period of time. Nothing in this Agreement interferes with or limits in any way the right of the Company or an Affiliates to terminate your employment at any time. This Agreement does not give you any right to continue in the employ
of the Company or an Affiliate.       11.  Governing Law; Choice of Forum .  This Agreement will be construed in
accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of the law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws. Any action to enforce this Agreement or any action otherwise regarding this Agreement must be
brought in a court in the State of New York, to which jurisdiction the Company and you consent.   
   12.  Miscellaneous .  For purposes of this Agreement,  Committee  includes any direct or indirect delegate of
the Committee as defined in the Plan and the word  Section  refers to a Section in this Agreement. Any other capitalized word used in this Agreement and not defined in this Agreement, including each form of that word, is defined in the
Plan. Any determination or interpretation by the Committee pursuant to this Agreement will be final and conclusive. In the event of a conflict between any term of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan control. This
Agreement and the Plan represent the entire agreement between you and the Company, and you and all Affiliates, regarding your Performance Shares. No promises, terms, or agreements of any kind regarding your Performance Shares that are not set forth,
or referred to, in this Agreement or in the Plan are part of this Agreement. In the event any provision of this Agreement is held illegal or invalid, the rest of this Agreement will remain enforceable. If you are an Employee of an Affiliate, your
Performance Shares are being provided to you by the Company on behalf of that Affiliate, and the value of your Performance Shares will be considered a compensation obligation of that Affiliate. Your Performance Shares are not Shares and do not give
you the rights of a holder of Shares. You will not be credited with additional Performance Shares on account of any dividend paid on Shares. The issuance of Shares or payment of cash pursuant to your Performance Shares is subject to all applicable
laws, rules and regulations, and to any approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required. No Shares will be issued or no cash will be paid if that issuance or payment would result in a violation of
applicable law, including the federal securities laws and any applicable state or foreign securities laws.   
   13.  Amendments .  The Committee has the exclusive right to amend this Agreement as long as the amendment does not
adversely affect any of your previously-granted Awards in any material way (without your written consent) and is otherwise consistent with the Plan. The Company will give written notice to you (or, in the event of your death, to your beneficiary or
estate) of any amendment as promptly as practicable after its adoption.   
         4   

14.  Agreement to Protect Corporate Property .  The grant of your
Performance Shares is subject to your execution of the Agreement to Protect Corporate Property provided to you with this Agreement ( Property Agreement ). If you do not return a signed copy of the Property Agreement, this Agreement and the
Performance Shares granted to you will be void. The Company may in its sole discretion allow an extension of time for you to return your signed Property Agreement.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to execute this Agreement, and you have executed this Agreement.   

METLIFE, INC.  

EMPLOYEE   

By:  
     
  C. Robert Henrikson  

[name]    

Name  

Chairman of the Board,     President and Chief Executive Officer   

Title  

Signature  

Signature   

Date:                             

5   

Schedule A       to Management Performance Share Agreement        

*  
  First percentage and second percentage are added together and the total is multiplied by the number of Performance Shares granted to determine the number of Final
Performance Shares. See Section 1(c) of this Agreement.     

</EX-10.38>

<EX-10.39>
 12
 d450627dex1039.htm
 EX-10.39

EX-10.39 

Exhibit 10.39       AMENDMENT TO MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SHARE AGREEMENTS       Pursuant to the
MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ), MetLife, Inc. hereby amends each of your Management Performance Share Agreements (the  Agreements ) as of April 25, 2007, as follows (this
 Amendment ):      1. Section 7 of each Agreement is restated in its entirety as follows:   
   7.  Adjustments  . The Committee will make appropriate adjustments in the terms and conditions of your Performance Shares in
recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements (such as a Common Stock dividend, Common Stock split, recapitalization, payment of an extraordinary dividend, merger, consolidation, combination,
spin-off, distribution of assets to stockholders other than ordinary cash dividends, exchange of shares, or other similar corporate change), or in recognition of changes to applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, to prevent
unintended dilution or enlargement of the potential benefits of your Performance Shares. The Committee s determinations in this regard will be conclusive.      2. Any capitalized word used in this Amendment is defined in the Plan or each Agreement. This Amendment will be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware,
regardless of the law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws. This Amendment, the Agreements, and the Plan represent the entire agreements between you and the Company, and you and all Affiliates, regarding your Performance Shares
and no other promises, terms, or agreements of any kind regarding your Performance Shares apply. In the event any provision of this Amendment is held illegal or invalid, the rest of the Amendment will remain enforceable. In no event will this
amendment be construed in a manner that would cause you to incur a penalty under Code Section 409A.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to execute this Amendment.       

METLIFE, INC.   

By:  
     
  /s/ C. Robert Henrikson   

Name   

Chairman of the Board, President and CEO   

Title   

/s/ C. Robert Henrikson   

Signature   

</EX-10.39>

<EX-10.40>
 13
 d450627dex1040.htm
 EX-10.40

EX-10.40 

Exhibit 10.40       MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SHARE AGREEMENT       MetLife, Inc. confirms that, on
 [grant date]  (the  Grant Date ), it granted you,  [name] ,  [number]  Performance Shares (your  Performance Shares ). Your Performance Shares are subject to the terms and conditions of this Management Performance
Share Agreement (this  Agreement ) and the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ).       1.  Standard Performance Terms .        (a) The terms of this
Section 1 shall be referred to as the  Standard Performance Terms  and will apply to your Performance Shares except in so far as Sections 2 (Change of Status) or 3 (Change of Control) apply.   
  (b) The Performance Period for your Performance Shares will begin on  [date] ,  [year]  and end on the December 31
immediately preceding the third anniversary of the beginning of the Performance Period. After the conclusion of the Performance Period, the Committee shall certify in writing the number of Performance Shares payable in accordance with
Section 1(c) (your  Final Performance Shares ), and your Final Performance Shares will be due and payable in Shares.      (c) The Committee will determine your Final Performance Shares by multiplying your Performance Shares by the  Performance Factor.  The Performance Factor means a percentage (from zero to
200%) which is the sum of two other percentages (each from zero to 100%), described in (1) and (2) below.      (1) The
first percentage will be based on the Company s performance with respect to Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share during the Performance Period relative to the other companies in the Standard and
Poor s Insurance Index, determined according to Table 1 of Schedule A to this Agreement. For this purpose, (a)  Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share  for any period means net income, excluding:
(1) after-tax net investment gains and losses, (2) after-tax adjustments related to net investment gains and losses, (3) after-tax discontinued operations other than discontinued real estate, and (4) preferred stock dividends, in
each case determined according to generally accepted accounting principles, divided by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during such period determined on a diluted basis under generally accepted accounting principles; and
(b)  Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share  means Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share in the final calendar year of the Performance Period divided by Net Operating
Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share in the calendar year immediately preceding the beginning of the Performance Period.      (2) The second percentage will be based on the Company s performance with respect to Proportionate Total Shareholder Return during the Performance Period relative to the other companies in the
Standard and Poor s Insurance Index, determined according to Table 2 of Schedule A to this Agreement. For this purpose, (a)  Initial Closing Price  means the average Closing Price (and, in the case of a company other than
the Company, the most closely analogous price) in the twenty (20) trading days prior to the first day of the Performance Period; (b)  Final Closing Price  means the average Closing Price (and, the case of a company other than the
Company, the most closely analogous price) in the twenty (20) trading days prior   

to and including the final day of the Performance Period; (c)  Total Shareholder Return  means the change (plus or minus) from the Initial Closing Price to the Final Closing Price,
plus dividends (if any) actually paid on Shares (or, in the case of a company other than the Company, the most closely analogous security) on a reinvested basis from the first day of the Performance Period to and including the last day of the
Performance Period; and (d)  Proportionate Total Shareholder Return  means Total Shareholder Return divided by Initial Closing Price.      (d) For these purposes, the Standard   Poor s Insurance Index means each company which is described by either of the following criteria:   
  (1) the company is included in such index for the entirety of the Performance Period; or   
  (2) the company is included in such index on the final day of the Performance Period, and at least fifty percent (50%) of the
securities entitled to vote for the directors of that company were owned, directly or indirectly, immediately after and as the result of a merger, acquisition, or other similar corporate transaction, by a majority of the shareholders (determined
immediately prior to such transaction) of a company that was either: (i) included in such index on the first day of the Performance Period, or (ii) described by this Section 1(d)(2).   
   2.  Change of Status .  For purposes of this Section 2, your transfer between the Company and an Affiliate, or among
Affiliates, will not be a termination of employment. In the event of a Change of Control, any applicable terms of Section 3 (Change of Control) will supersede the terms of this Section 2.   
  (a)  Long-Term Disability . In the event you qualify for long-term disability benefits under a plan or arrangement offered by
the Company or an Affiliate for its Employees, the Standard Performance Terms will continue to apply to your Performance Shares. Once this provision applies, no other change of status described in this Section 2 (except the provision regarding
termination for Cause) will affect your Performance Shares, even if you subsequently return to active service or your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates other than for Cause.   
  (b)  Death . In the event that your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates due to your death, your Performance
Shares will be due and payable in Shares (or cash at a value equal to the Closing Price on the date of your death, if so determined by the Committee).      (c)  Retirement . If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) on after your early retirement date or normal retirement date (in each case determined
under any ERISA qualified pension plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate) ( Retirement ), the Standard Performance Terms will continue to apply to your Performance Shares.   
  (d)  Bridge Eligibility . If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) with bridge
eligibility for retirement-related medical benefits (determined under an ERISA qualified benefit plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate, if any) ( Bridge Eligibility ), and your separation agreement (offered
to you under the severance program offered by the Company or an Affiliate to its Employees) becomes final, the Standard Performance Terms will continue to apply to your Performance Shares.   
         2   

(e)  Termination for Cause . In the event that your employment with the Company or
an Affiliate terminates for Cause, your Performance Shares will be forfeited immediately.      (f)  Other Termination of
Employment . Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if no other provision in this Section 2 regarding change of status applies, including, for example, your voluntary termination of employment, your termination without Retirement or
Bridge Eligibility, or your termination by the Company or an Affiliate without Cause, your Performance Shares will be forfeited immediately unless you are offered a separation agreement by the Company or an Affiliate under a severance program. To
the extent your separation agreement becomes final, your Prorated Performance Shares will be due and payable to you. The number of your  Prorated Performance Shares  will be determined by dividing the number of calendar months in the
Performance Period that have ended as of the end of the month of the termination of your employment by thirty-six (36), multiplying the result by the number of your Performance Shares, and rounding to the nearest whole number;  provided,
however , that if the date of the termination of your employment is prior to the first anniversary of the beginning of the Performance Period, then the number of your Prorated Performance Shares shall be zero (0). Payment for each of your
Prorated Performance Shares will be made in cash at a value equal to the Closing Price on the Grant Date, and shall be rounded to the nearest one-hundred dollars ($100.00). If your separation agreement does not become final, your Performance Shares
will be forfeited.       3.  Change of Control .     
  (a) Except as provided in Section 3(b), and unless otherwise prohibited under law or by applicable rules of a national security
exchange, if a Change of Control occurs, your Performance Shares will be due and payable in the form of cash equal to the number of your Performance Shares multiplied by the Change of Control Price   
  (b) The terms of Section 3(a) will not apply to your Performance Shares if the Committee reasonably determines in good faith,
prior to the Change of Control, that you have been granted an Alternative Award for your Performance Shares pursuant to Section 15.2 of the Plan. Any such Alternative Award shall not accelerate the timing of payment or otherwise violate Code
Section 409A.       4.  Nontransferability of Awards .  Except as provided in Section 5 or as otherwise
permitted by the Committee, you may not sell, transfer, pledge, assign or otherwise alienate or hypothecate any of your Performance Shares, and all rights with respect to your Performance Shares are exercisable during your lifetime only by you.
      5.  Beneficiary Designation .  You may name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently
or successively) who may then exercise any right under this Agreement in the event of your death. Each beneficiary designation for such purpose will revoke all such prior designations. Beneficiary designations must be properly completed on a form
prescribed by the Committee and must be filed with the Company during your lifetime. If you have not designated a beneficiary, your rights under this Agreement will pass to and may be exercised by your estate.   
   6.  Tax Withholding .  The Company will withhold from payment made under this Agreement an amount sufficient to satisfy
the minimum statutory Federal, state, and local tax withholding requirements relating to payment on account of your Performance Shares.   
         3   

7.  Adjustments .  The Committee will make appropriate adjustments in the
terms and conditions of your Performance Shares in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements (such as a Common Stock dividend, Common Stock split, recapitalization, payment of an extraordinary
dividend, merger, consolidation, combination, spin-off, distribution of assets to stockholders other than ordinary cash dividends, exchange of shares, or other similar corporate change), or in recognition of changes to applicable laws, regulations,
or accounting principles, to prevent unintended dilution or enlargement of the potential benefits of your Performance Shares. The Committee s determinations in this regard will be conclusive.   
   8.  Timing of Payment .        (a) This Agreement is intended to comply with Code Section 409A and shall be interpreted accordingly. If Shares are to be paid to you, you will receive evidence of ownership of those Shares.
     (b) If payment is due and payable under Section 2(b), it will be made upon your death.   
  (c) If payment is due and payable under Section 2(f), it will be made six (6) months after the termination of your
employment (or six (6) months after your  separation from service  under Code Section 409A, if that is a different date).      (d) If payment is due and payable under Section 3(a), and the Change of Control that causes payment to be due and payable is a  change of control  as defined under Code
Section 409A, such sum shall be paid to you within thirty (30) days of the Change of Control. If payment is due and payable under Section 3(a), and the Change of Control that causes payment to be due and payable is not a  change
of control  as defined under Code Section 409A, such sum shall be paid to you at the time determined under Section 8(e).      (e) If payment is due and payable under the Standard Performance Terms and you have chosen to defer payment under an applicable deferred compensation plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate,
payment will be made at the time determined under that plan. If payment is due and payable under the Standard Performance Terms and you have not chosen to defer payment under an applicable deferred compensation plan offered by the Company or an
Affiliate, payment will be made in the calendar year after the end of the Performance Period.       9.  Closing
Price .  For purpose of this Agreement,  Closing Price  will mean the closing price of a Share as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system for the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other recognized
quotation system on which the trading prices of the Shares are quoted at the relevant time), or in the event that there are no Share transactions reported on such tape or other system on the applicable date, the closing price on the immediately
preceding date on which Share transactions were reported. Closing Price shall constitute  Fair Market Value  under the Plan for all purposes related to your Performance Shares.   
   10.  No Guarantee of Employment .  This Agreement is not a contract of employment and it is not a guarantee of employment
for life or any period of time. Nothing in this Agreement interferes with or limits in any way the right of the Company or an Affiliates to terminate your employment at any time. This Agreement does not give you any right to continue in the employ
of the Company or an Affiliate.   
         4   

11.  Governing Law; Choice of Forum .  This Agreement will be construed in
accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of the law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws. Any action to enforce this Agreement or any action otherwise regarding this Agreement must be
brought in a court in the State of New York, to which jurisdiction the Company and you consent.   
   12.  Miscellaneous .  For purposes of this Agreement,  Committee  includes any direct or indirect delegate of
the Committee as defined in the Plan and the word  Section  refers to a Section in this Agreement. Any other capitalized word used in this Agreement and not defined in this Agreement, including each form of that word, is defined in the
Plan. Any determination or interpretation by the Committee pursuant to this Agreement will be final and conclusive. In the event of a conflict between any term of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan control. This
Agreement and the Plan represent the entire agreement between you and the Company, and you and all Affiliates, regarding your Performance Shares. No promises, terms, or agreements of any kind regarding your Performance Shares that are not set forth,
or referred to, in this Agreement or in the Plan are part of this Agreement. In the event any provision of this Agreement is held illegal or invalid, the rest of this Agreement will remain enforceable. If you are an Employee of an Affiliate, your
Performance Shares are being provided to you by the Company on behalf of that Affiliate, and the value of your Performance Shares will be considered a compensation obligation of that Affiliate. Your Performance Shares are not Shares and do not give
you the rights of a holder of Shares. You will not be credited with additional Performance Shares on account of any dividend paid on Shares. The issuance of Shares or payment of cash pursuant to your Performance Shares is subject to all applicable
laws, rules and regulations, and to any approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required. No Shares will be issued or no cash will be paid if that issuance or payment would result in a violation of
applicable law, including the federal securities laws and any applicable state or foreign securities laws.   
         5   

13.  Amendments .  The Committee has the exclusive right to amend this
Agreement as long as the amendment does not adversely affect any of your previously-granted Awards in any material way (without your written consent) and is otherwise consistent with the Plan. The Company will give written notice to you (or, in the
event of your death, to your beneficiary or estate) of any amendment as promptly as practicable after its adoption.   
   14.  Agreement to Protect Corporate Property .  The grant of your Performance Shares is subject to your execution of the
Agreement to Protect Corporate Property provided to you with this Agreement ( Property Agreement ). If you do not return a signed copy of the Property Agreement, this Agreement and the Performance Shares granted to you will be void. The
Company may in its sole discretion allow an extension of time for you to return your signed Property Agreement.      IN WITNESS
WHEREOF, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to execute this Agreement, and you have executed this Agreement.       

METLIFE, INC.  

EMPLOYEE   

By:  
     
  C. Robert Henrikson  

[name]     

Name  

Chairman of the Board,     President, and Chief Executive Officer   

Title  

Signature  

Signature   

Date:   

6   

Schedule A       to Management Performance Share Agreement         Table 1   

Table 2     

*  
  First percentage and second percentage are added together and the total is multiplied by the number of Performance Shares granted to determine the number of Final
Performance Shares. See Section 1(c) of this Agreement.     

</EX-10.40>

<EX-10.41>
 14
 d450627dex1041.htm
 EX-10.41

EX-10.41 

Exhibit 10.41       AMENDMENT TO MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SHARE AGREEMENTS       Pursuant to the
MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ), MetLife, Inc. hereby amends each of your Management Performance Share Agreements (the  Agreements ) as of December 31, 2007, as follows (this
 Amendment ):      1. Section 2(f) of each Agreement is restated in its entirety as follows:   
  (f)  Other Termination of Employment . Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if no other provision in this Section 2
regarding change of status applies, including, for example, your voluntary termination of employment, your termination without Retirement or Bridge Eligibility, or your termination by the Company or an Affiliate without Cause, your Performance
Shares will be forfeited immediately unless you are offered a separation agreement by the Company or an Affiliate under a severance program. To the extent you are offered a separation agreement by the Company or an Affiliate, and your separation
agreement becomes final, your Prorated Performance Shares will be due and payable to you. The number of your  Prorated Performance Shares  will be determined by dividing the number of calendar months in the Performance Period that have
ended as of the end of the month of the termination of your employment by thirty-six (36), multiplying the result by the number of your Performance Shares, and rounding to the nearest whole number;  provided, however , that if the date of the
termination of your employment is prior to the first anniversary of the beginning of the Performance Period, then the number of your Prorated Performance Shares shall be zero (0). Payment for each of your Prorated Performance Shares will be made in
cash at a value equal to the Closing Price on the Grant Date, and shall be rounded to the nearest one-hundred dollars ($100.00). If your separation agreement does not become final, your Performance Shares will be forfeited.   
  2. Section 3 of each Agreement is restated in its entirety as follows:   
   3.  Change of Control .        (a) Except as provided in Section 3(b), and unless otherwise prohibited under law or by applicable rules of a national security exchange, if a Change of Control occurs, your Performance Shares will
be due and payable in the form of cash equal to the number of your Performance Shares multiplied by the Change of Control Price.      (b) The terms of Section 3(a) will not apply to your Performance Shares if the Committee reasonably determines in good faith, prior to the Change of Control, that you have been granted an Alternative
Award for your Performance Shares pursuant to Section 15.2 of the Plan. Any such Alternative Award shall not accelerate the timing of payment or otherwise violate Code Section 409A.   
  3. Section 8 of each Agreement is restated in its entirety as follows:       8.  Timing of Payment .        (a) This Agreement is intended to comply
with Code Section 409A and shall be interpreted accordingly. If Shares are to be paid to you, you will receive evidence of ownership of those Shares.      (b) If payment is due and payable under Section 2(b), it will be made upon your death.   

(c) If payment is due and payable under Section 2(f), it will be made six
(6) months after the termination of your employment (or six (6) months after your  separation from service  under Code Section 409A, if that is a different date).   
  (d) If payment is due and payable under Section 3(a), and the Change of Control that causes payment to be due and payable is a
 change of control  as defined under Code Section 409A, such sum shall be paid to you within thirty (30) days of the Change of Control. If payment is due and payable under Section 3(a), and the Change of Control that causes
payment to be due and payable is not a  change of control  as defined under Code Section 409A, such sum shall be paid to you at the time determined under Section 8(e).   
  (e) If payment is due and payable under the Standard Performance Terms and you have chosen to defer payment under an applicable deferred
compensation plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate, payment will be made at the time determined under that plan. If payment is due and payable under the Standard Performance Terms and you have not chosen to defer payment under an applicable
deferred compensation plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate, payment will be made in the calendar year after the end of the performance period.      4. Any capitalized word used in this Amendment is defined in the Plan or each Agreement. This Amendment will be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware,
regardless of the law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws. This Amendment, the Agreements, and the Plan represent the entire agreements between you and the Company, and you and all Affiliates, regarding your Performance Shares
and no other promises, terms, or agreements of any kind regarding your Performance Shares apply. In the event any provision of this Amendment is held illegal or invalid, the rest of the Amendment will remain enforceable. In no event will this
amendment be construed in a manner that would cause you to incur a penalty under Code Section 409A.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to execute this Amendment.       

METLIFE, INC.    

By:   
     
  Gwenn L. Carr   

Name   

Senior Vice President   

Title   

/s/ Gwenn L. Carr   

Signature   

</EX-10.41>

<EX-10.62>
 15
 d450627dex1062.htm
 EX-10.62

EX-10.62 

Exhibit 10.62    
  AMENDMENT TO   
  METLIFE POLICYHOLDER TRUST AGREEMENT      AMENDMENT TO METLIFE POLICYHOLDER TRUST AGREEMENT (the  Amendment Agreement ), dated November 8, 2001, by and among Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, a New York corporation, MetLife,
Inc., a Delaware corporation, Mellon Investor Services LLC, a limited liability company organized under the laws of New Jersey (formerly known as ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, L.L.C.), as custodian of the Interests under the MetLife Policyholder
Trust Agreement, and Wilmington Trust Company, a Delaware banking company, not in its individual capacity but solely as Trustee (collectively, the  Parties ).      Capitalized terms used in this Amendment Agreement but not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Agreement, as defined below.   
  WITNESSETH:   
  WHEREAS, the Parties have previously entered into the MetLife Policyholder Trust Agreement, dated as of November 3, 1999 (the
 Agreement  and      WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, the Parties wish to amend the Agreement as
provided herein;      NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:      1. Amendment of the Agreement.   
  The Agreement is hereby amended as follows:      Section 4.2 of the Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following after the last sentence:       The Interests of a Trust Beneficiary to whom Interests are transferred pursuant to Section 4.2(a) shall be increased to reflect such transfer and such transferred Interests shall be deemed to
be beneficially owned by such Trust Beneficiary and, except as set forth in the next sentence, subject to all provisions of this Agreement and the Purchase and Sale Program Procedures. Such Trust Beneficiary shall be permitted to make a Sale
Election with respect to all, but not less than all, of such transferred Interests without being subject to the limitations set forth under Section 5.3(c) of this Agreement and Section 4 of the Purchase and Sale Program Procedures. 
     2. Agreement Otherwise Unchanged.      Except as herein provided, the Agreement shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect and each reference to the Agreement in the Trust Agreement shall be a reference to the Agreement as amended
hereby and as it may be further amended and in effect from time to time.      3. Counterparts.   
  This Amendment Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which
together shall constitute one and the same instrument.   

4. Governing Law.      THIS AMENDMENT AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO ITS PRINCIPLES OR RULES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS TO THE EXTENT SUCH
PRINCIPLES OR RULES WOULD REQUIRE OR PERMIT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER STATE.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties
hereto have caused this Amendment Agreement to be executed as of the date first set forth above.       

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY    

By:   
     
  /s/ Gwenn L. Carr   

Name: Gwenn L. Carr   

Title: Vice President and Secretary   

METLIFE, INC.    

By:   
     
  /s/ Gwenn L. Carr   

Name: Gwenn L. Carr   

Title: Vice President and Secretary   

WILMINGTON TRUST COMPANY, as Trustee    

By:   
     
  /s/ Joseph B. Feil   

Name: Joseph B. Feil   

Title: Senior Financial Services Officer   

MELLON INVESTOR SERVICES    

By:   
     
  /s/ Denise Melato   

Name: Denise Melato   

Title: Vice President   

</EX-10.62>

<EX-10.70>
 16
 d450627dex1070.htm
 EX-10.70

EX-10.70 

Exhibit 10.70        MetLife, Inc.        
      Compensation Committee   
  February 11, 2013      Resolved:   

(1)  
  That the Annual Variable Incentive Plan ( AVIP ) awards for 2013 performance shall constitute Cash-Based Awards under the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and
Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Stock and Incentive Plan          

(2)  
  That the measures to be used to determine performance results of MetLife, Inc. (the  Company ) for establishing the amount to be available for payment of
awards under AVIP for 2013 performance (the  2013 Available Amount ) are approved in all respects substantially in the form described in the materials presented to the Committee and filed with the records of the meeting, subject to
Committee discretion to increase or decrease and otherwise determine the 2013 Available Amount;         

(a)  
  Positive Company income from continuing operations before provision for income tax, excluding net investment gains (losses) (determined in accordance with
Section 3(a) of Article 7.04 of SEC Regulation S-X), which includes total net investment gains (losses) and net derivatives gains (losses), measured for 2013.     

(b)  
    Positive Company Total Shareholder Return for the Performance Period.  Total Shareholder Return  means the change (plus or minus) from the
Initial Closing Price to the Final Closing Price, plus dividends (if any) actually paid on shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock on a reinvested basis during the Performance Period.  Initial Closing Price  means the average Closing Price
for the twenty (20) trading days prior to the first day of the Performance Period.  Final Closing Price  means, in the case of the Company the average Closing Price for the twenty (20) trading days prior to and including the
final day of the Performance Period.  Closing Price  means the closing price of a Share as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system for the New

York Stock Exchange (or on such other recognized quotation system on which the trading prices of the Shares are quoted at the relevant time), or in the event that there are no Share transactions
reported on such tape or other system on the applicable date, the closing price on the immediately preceding date on which Share transactions were reported.  Shares means shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock. The  Performance Period 
refers to 2013.         

(4)  
  That the Chief Executive Officer of the Company ( CEO ) and each other member of the Company s Executive Group shall be eligible for an AVIP award for
2013 of $10 million if any one or more of the 2013 Section 162(m) Goals is met; provided, however, that the Committee shall retain the ability, in its discretion, to reduce the amount of the award payable (including reducing the amount payable
to zero) based on such factors or considerations that the Committee shall deem appropriate, including but not limited to the amounts that would have been payable to the CEO or other member of the Company s Executive Group, respectively, under
the methodology applicable to other employees under AVIP;         

(5)  
  That if the Company does not meet any of the 2013 Section 162(m) Goals, neither the CEO nor any of the other members of the Company s Executive Group shall be
eligible for any AVIP award for 2013; and         

(6)  
  That the officers of the Company (the  Officers ) be and hereby are authorized, in the name and on behalf of the Company, to (a) take or cause to be
taken any and all such further actions and to prepare, execute and deliver or cause to be prepared, executed and delivered, and where necessary or appropriate, file or cause to be filed with the appropriate governmental authorities, all such other
instruments and documents, including but not limited to all certificates, contracts, bonds, agreements, documents, instruments, receipts or other papers, (b) incur and pay or cause to be paid all fees and expenses and (c) engage such
persons, in each case as such Officer shall in that Officer s judgment determine to be necessary or appropriate to carry out fully the intent and purposes of the foregoing resolutions and each of the transactions contemplated thereby.

</EX-10.70>

<EX-10.72>
 17
 d450627dex1072.htm
 EX-10.72

EX-10.72 

Exhibit 10.72    
   METROPOLITAN LIFE AUXILIARY SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN       (Amended and Restated, Effective January 1, 2008)   

METROPOLITAN LIFE AUXILIARY SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN    
  Metropolitan Life Insurance Company hereby amend and restate the Metropolitan Life Auxiliary Savings and Investment Plan
( Plan ) effective January 1, 2008.      Article 1    Purpose of Plan and Construction     
  The purpose of this Plan is to provide Company Contributions on behalf of employees and their Beneficiaries whose Company matching
contributions under the Savings and Investment Plan for Employees of Metropolitan Life and Participating Affiliates ( Savings and Investment Plan ) are reduced or eliminated solely because of the application of the limitations of sections
415(c) and/or 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ( Code ). This Plan shall be construed and administered as a nonqualified deferred compensation plan as defined in section 409A(d)(1) of the Code that is intended to
satisfy the requirements of Code section 409A(a)(2), (3) and (4) and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.      Article 2  
 Definitions        2.1  Administrative Participant  means any Participant in this Plan who is not classified by the Company as a
commissioned employee.      2.2.  Affiliate  means, except as otherwise provided in this Plan document, any corporation, partnership,
joint venture or other business entity which is considered to be a single employer with the Company under Code   414(b) or (c).   

2.3.  Beneficiary  means one or more persons designated by a Participant or otherwise determined
under Section 4.10 to receive that portion of the Participant s vested account balance which has not been distributed as a result of his or her death.      2.4.  Commissioned Participant  means any Participant in this Plan who is compensated primarily by commissions.      2.5.  Company  means any Participating Company, as defined under the Savings and Investment Plan.      2.6.  Default Commencement Date  means the date as of which the Participant s vested account balance shall commence to be distributed in the absence of an election designating an
alternative commencement date. The Default Commencement Date shall be as follows:      (a) For purposes of Section 4.6,
the Default Commencement Date shall be as soon as administratively practicable following the date that the Participant has a Termination of Employment (except that with respect to a Participant who is a Specified Employee, as soon as
administratively practicable following the date that is six months after the date that such Participant has a Termination of Employment);      (b) For purposes of Sections 4.7 and 4.9, the Default Commencement Date shall be as soon as administratively practicable following the date that constitutes the first anniversary of the date on
which an Administrative Participant has a Termination of Employment; and      (c) For purposes of
Sections 4.8 and 4.10, the Default Commencement Date shall be the October 1   st    following the date of the Commissioned Participant s attainment of his or her sixtieth (60   th   ) birthday.   

2.7.  Default Mode of Payment  means the Mode of Payment in which a Participant s vested
account balance is required to be distributed in the absence of a Mode of Payment Election. The Default Mode of Payment shall be a single sum.   
  2.8  Deferral Period  means the period of years following a Participant s Termination of Employment or other payment triggering event over
which commencement of his or her vested account balance is deferred prior to commencing distribution.      2.9.  Deferral Period
Election  means a Participant s election to specify a Deferral Period for his or her vested account balance under this Plan.      2.10.
 Minimum Deferral Period  means the minimum period of time that a Participant may elect following the later of (a) the Participant s Termination of Employment or other payment triggering event (after taking into account the
Default Commencement Date) or (b) the date that payment was scheduled to commence under a valid election that had been made by the Participant, prior to the commencement of distribution of his or her vested account balance. The Minimum Deferral
Period shall be as follows:      (a) For purposes of Sections 4.6 and 4.7, zero years; and   
  (b) For purposes of Sections 4.8, 4.9 and 4.10, five years.      2.11.  Mode of Payment  means the optional form of distribution under which a Participant s vested account balance becomes payable.      2.12.  Mode of Payment Election  means a Participant s election to designate a Mode of Payment for his or her vested account balance under this Plan.   

2.13.  Participant  means any employee of the Company eligible to participate in the Savings and
Investment Plan who is enrolled to contribute before-tax 401(k) contributions, Roth 401(k) contributions and/or after-tax contributions to the Savings and Investment Plan equal to at least 3% of his or her compensation (as defined in the Savings and
Investment Plan) and who either satisfies the requirements of Article 3 or any former employee of the Company who continues to maintain an account balance under this Plan.      2.14.  Plan  means the Metropolitan Life Auxiliary Savings and Investment Plan.      2.15.
 Plan Administrator  means Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.      2.16.  Plan Year  means the calendar year.   
  2.17.  Savings and Investment Plan  means the Savings and Investment Plan for Employees of Metropolitan Life and Participating Affiliates, a
plan that is intended to satisfy the requirements of sections 401(a) and (k) of the Code.      2.18.  Specified Employee  shall
have the meaning set forth in Section 4.4(b) of the MetLife Auxiliary Pension Plan. The procedure for identifying a Specified Employee contained in Section 4.4(b) of the MetLife Auxiliary Pension Plan is incorporated by reference as if the
same were fully set forth herein.      2.19  Termination of Employment  means the Participant s death, retirement or other
termination of employment sufficient to constitute a  separation from service  within the meaning of Code   409A(a)(2)(A)(i) and Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(h)(1). In addition, a Participant shall be treated as having
experienced a Termination of Employment as of the twenty-four-month anniversary in which she or he commenced receiving disability benefits (both long-term and short-term) under the Company s disability plans.   

Article 3    Participation     
  Each participant in the Savings and Investment Plan whose compensation exceeds the limitation of Section 401(a)(17) of the Code and
whose Company matching contributions under the Savings and Investment Plan are reduced or eliminated because of the application of the limitations of (i) section 415(c) of the Code; and/or (ii) section 401(a)(17) of the Code, shall be a
Participant under this Plan.      Article 4    Vesting and Payment of Benefits     
  4.1  Company Contributions .   
  (a)  In General . Except as provided in subsection (b), for each Plan Year, the Company shall contribute to this Plan, on behalf
of each Participant, the amount of Company contributions equal to the amount of Company matching contributions that would have been made to the Savings and Investment Plan had the limitations of Sections 401(a)(17) and/or 415(c) of the Code not
applied to the Participant s account under the Savings and Investment Plan.      (b)  Suspension for Savings and
Investment Plan Withdrawals . Notwithstanding subsection (a), no Company Contributions shall be made for the six-month period beginning on the first day of the second month following the date that the Participant receives (1) a hardship
withdrawal of his or her 401(k) contributions under the provisions of the Savings and Investment Plan or (2) a withdrawal of Company matching contributions under the provisions of the Savings and Investment Plan.   

4.2.  Vesting of Company Contributions . Company Contributions under this Plan shall vest in accordance
with the vesting schedule applicable to Company matching contributions under the Savings and Investment Plan.      4.3  Elections and Tracking
of Investment Performance . Subject to the Company s consent, a Participant may make an election with respect to the investment allocation of future Company contributions as well as existing balances. Such allocation shall be pegged to the
performance of one or more of the Core Funds under the Savings and Investment Plan (other than the NEF Frozen Accumulation Account). No investment allocation election shall represent an actual investment in any such fund, but shall merely reflect
the performance of such fund. Thus, the Participant s account balance under this Plan shall be adjusted for income, gains and losses in the same manner as if such Participant had directed the investment of his or her account balance among one
or more of the aforementioned funds under the Savings and Investment Plan. The Participant s ability to change the investment allocation of future contributions and existing balances shall be subject to the same rules and restrictions as apply
under the Savings and Investment Plan; however, no Participant shall have the right to: (i) exercise voting, tender or exchange rights with respect to amounts treated as if they were invested in the MetLife Company Stock Fund or
(ii) receive any distribution from the Plan in a form other than cash. If a Participant fails to specify the investment allocation of contributions to this Plan, then earnings, gains and/or losses on such contributions shall be determined using
the returns from the Fixed Income Fund until changed by the Participant, Beneficiary or alternate payee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, it will be within the discretion of the Company whether contributions are actually invested according to each
Participant s stated preferences.   

4.4  Optional Modes of Payment Available .   
  (a)  Modes of Payment Generally Available . The Participant may elect to receive a distribution of his or her vested account
balance under this Plan in the following Modes of Payment:      (1) A single sum; or   
  (2) A specified number of annual installments (but not less than two nor more than fifteen).   
  The Participant s Mode of Payment Election shall specify the number of full years over which his or her vested account balance shall
be distributed to him or her. If the Participant inserts one, she or he will be deemed to have elected to receive a distribution of his or her vested account balance in the form of a single sum. If a Participant has failed to make a Mode of Payment
Election, she or he will be deemed to have elected to receive a distribution of his or her vested account balance in the Default Mode of Payment. If the Participant has elected to receive his or her vested account balance in the form of annual
installments, the first such installment shall be calculated by dividing his or her vested account balance by the number of installments elected. Each subsequent year s installment shall be calculated by dividing the Participant s vested
account balance by the number of remaining installments (i.e., the number of installments contained in the Participant s Mode of Payment Election, reduced by one for each year that has elapsed since the first year).   
  (b)  Cash-out of a Participant s Vested Account Balance . Notwithstanding any election that a Participant has made under
Sections 4.6(b), 4.7(b) or 4.9(b) or was deemed to have made under Sections 4.6(a), 4.7(a) or 4.9(a), if such Participant s vested account balance under this Plan does not exceed $20,000 as of the date of such Participant s
Termination of Employment, such Participant s vested account balance will be distributed in a single sum as   

soon as administratively practicable following his or her Termination of Employment (six months after the date of his or her Termination of Employment, with respect to a Participant who is a
Specified Employee as of the date of his or her Termination of Employment).      (c)  Minimum Distribution .
Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, a Participant who commenced minimum distributions of his or her vested account balance on or before December 31, 2007, will continue to have such distributions calculated as provided
under the Savings and Investment Plan and paid to them in accordance with the existing schedule. For all other Participants, payment of the vested account balance under this Plan will not be affected by, or subject to, minimum distributions as
described under section 401(a)(9) of the Code and the treasury regulations thereunder.      4.5.  Deferral Periods Available under the Plan .
The Participant may elect a Deferral Period equal to a specified number of years, in full one-year increments with the minimum equal to the Minimum Deferral Period and a maximum of ten years, except as otherwise provided in Sections 4.8(b) and
4.10(b). If a Participant has made one or more prior elections, whether under the provisions of the Plan as in effect prior to 2007, or in accordance with Section 4.6(b), 4.7(b), 4.8(b), 4.9(b) or 4.10(b), and the sum of the Deferral Period
Elections under all of such prior elections, applied in the aggregate and the Minimum Deferral Period (that would apply if such Participant were able to make a new election) would exceed ten years from the Default Commencement Date, such Participant
shall not be permitted to make any further elections under this Plan.   

4.6.  Participant s Election of Time and Form of Benefit Distribution Prior to 2008 .   
  (a)  Distribution of Vested Account Balance if No Election in Force . Unless a Participant made an election under the provisions
of this Plan as in effect prior to 2007, or makes an election in accordance with subsection (b) on or after January 1, 2007 and prior to January 1, 2008, a Participant will be deemed to have elected to receive his or her vested
account balance in the Default Mode of Payment, payable as of the Default Commencement Date following the expiration of the Minimum Deferral Period.      (b)  Rules Governing Election of the Time and Form of Benefit Distribution .      (1)  Limitations on Timing of Elections . Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, all elections under this subsection (b) shall be made in accordance with the following
timing requirements:      (A) If the Participant has not made a prior election under the terms of this Plan as in effect prior to
2007 and such Participant makes an election in accordance with this subsection (b) on or after January 1, 2007 but prior to January 1, 2008, such election shall become effective immediately, unless such Participant has a Termination
of Employment during the same Plan Year in which such election was made, in which case, such election shall become invalid. As a result, the Participant will be eligible to receive a distribution of his or her vested account balance in accordance
with subsection (a);      (B) If the Participant has made a prior election under the terms of this Plan as in effect prior to
2007, and the Participant makes a new election on or after January 1, 2007 and prior to January 1, 2008, such election shall become effective immediately, unless   

(I)  
  such Participant has a Termination of Employment and such election provides for distribution during the same Plan Year in which such Participant has the Termination of
Employment, in which case, such election shall become invalid. As a result, such Participant will be eligible to receive a distribution of his or her vested account balance in accordance with the prior election; or     

(II)  
  such election provides for commencement of the time and mode of payment of such Participant s vested account balance to be accelerated into the same Plan Year in
which such Participant has a Termination of Employment, in which case, such election shall become invalid. As a result, such Participant will be eligible to receive a distribution of his or her vested account balance in accordance with the prior
election.        (C) Notwithstanding any provision in this Section 4.6 to the contrary, in no event may a
Participant make an election under this subsection (b) following the date on which she or he has a Termination of Employment.      (2)  Commencement of Distribution in Accordance with Participant Election . If a Participant has made a valid election in accordance with this subsection (b) or has made a prior valid election
prior to January 1, 2007, in accordance with the terms of the Plan which were then in effect, except as otherwise provided in Section 4.4(b), distribution of such Participant s vested account balance shall be made following the
expiration of the Deferral Period specified in the Deferral Period Election, payable in the Mode of Payment specified in the Mode of Payment Election.   

4.7.  Administrative Participant s Election of Time and Form of Benefit Distribution after 2007 but
Prior to 2009 .      (a)  Distribution of Vested Account Balance if No Election in Force . Unless an Administrative
Participant made an election under the provisions of this Plan as in effect prior to 2007 or in accordance with Section 4.6, or makes an election in accordance with subsection (b) on or after January 1, 2008 and prior to
January 1, 2009, an Administrative Participant will be deemed to have elected to receive his or her vested account balance in the Default Mode of Payment, payable as of the Default Commencement Date following the expiration of the Minimum
Deferral Period.      (b)  Rules Governing Election of the Time and Form of Benefit Distribution .   
  (1)  Limitations on Timing of Elections . Notwithstanding any provision in this Plan to the contrary, all elections under this
subsection (b) shall be made in accordance with the following timing requirements;      (A) If the Administrative Participant
has not made a valid election under the terms of this Plan as in effect prior to 2007 or in accordance with Section 4.6, and such Participant makes an election in accordance with this subsection (b) on or after January 1, 2008 but
prior to January 1, 2009, such election shall become effective immediately, unless such Participant has a Termination of Employment during the same Plan Year in which such election was made, in which case, such election shall become invalid. As
a result, such Participant will be eligible to receive a distribution of his or her vested account balance in accordance with subsection (a);   

(B) If the Administrative Participant has made a valid election under the provisions of this
Plan as in effect prior to 2007 or in accordance with Section 4.6 and such Participant makes an election in accordance with this subsection (b) on or after January 1, 2008 but prior to January 1, 2009, such election will become
effective immediately, unless:       

(I)  
  Such Participant has a Termination of Employment and such election provides for distribution during the same Plan Year in which such Participant has a Termination of
Employment, in which case, such election shall become invalid. As a result, such Participant will be eligible to receive a distribution of his or her vested account balance in accordance with the prior election; or     

(II)  
  Such election provides for commencement of the time and mode of payment of such Participant s vested account balance to be accelerated into the same Plan Year in
which such Participant has a Termination of Employment, in which case, such election shall become invalid. As a result, such Participant will be eligible to receive a distribution of his or her vested account balance in accordance with the prior
election.        (C) Notwithstanding any provision in this Section 4.7 to the contrary, in no event may a
Participant make an election under this subsection (b) following the date on which she or he has a Termination of Employment.   

(2)  Commencement of Distribution in Accordance with Participant Election . If an
Administrative Participant has made a valid election in accordance with this subsection (b) or has made a valid election under the terms of this Plan as in effect prior to 2007 or in accordance with Section 4.6, except as otherwise
provided in Section 4.4(b), distribution of such Participant s account balance shall be made following the expiration of the Deferral Period specified in the Deferral Period Election, payable in the Mode of Payment specified in the Mode of
Payment Election.      4.8.  Commissioned Participant s Election of Time and Form of Benefit Distribution after 2007 but Prior to 2009 .
     (a)  Distribution of Vested Account Balance in Absence of Election . Unless a Commissioned Participant makes an
election prior to January 1, 2009 in accordance with subsection (b), a Commissioned Participant will be deemed to have elected to receive his or her vested account balance in the Default Mode of Payment, payable as of the Default Commencement
Date, regardless of whether or not she or he had previously experienced a Termination of Employment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to a Commissioned Participant who has attained the age of sixty (60) or older as of October 1,
2008, such Participant s vested account balance under this Plan will be distributed in the Default Mode of Payment as of October 1, 2009. If a Commissioned Participant commences distribution of his or her vested account balance while she
or he remains actively employed and Company contributions continue to be made to his or her account under this Plan in accordance with Section 4.1, then every five years after such Participant s initial distribution, such additional
contributions which are made during the Plan Year in which distributions commence and which are thereafter credited to the Participant s account prior to his or her Termination of Employment shall be distributed in a single sum.   
  (b)  Rules Governing Election of the Time and Form of Benefit Distribution .   

(1)  Limitations on Timing of Elections . Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to
the contrary, all elections under this subsection (b) shall be made in accordance with the following timing requirements:   
  (A) Except with respect to a Commissioned Participant who had a Termination of Employment prior to January 1, 2008, no prior
election made by any Commissioned Participant under the provisions of this Plan in effect prior to January 1, 2008 will be given effect on or after January 1, 2008. If a Commissioned Participant makes an election in accordance with this
subsection (b) on or after January 1, 2008 and prior to January 1, 2009, such election, if made no later than the September 30 of the Plan Year immediately preceding the Plan Year in which occurs the Default Commencement Date,
shall become effective as of the date it is made.      (B)  Commencement Date Election Requirements . If
a Commissioned Participant makes an election in accordance with this subsection (b), such election can provide for a commencement date as of the October 1   s      t    following such Participant s attainment of a specified age, which shall in no event be earlier than such
Participant s attainment of age 55 or in no event later than such Participant s attainment of age 70, provided that such Participant makes such election no later than the September 30   th    of the Plan Year immediately preceding the Plan Year in which she or
he will attain the stated age.   

(2)  Commencement of Distribution in Accordance with Participant Election . If a
Commissioned Participant has made a valid election in accordance with this subsection (b), distribution of such Participant s vested account balance shall be made as soon as administratively practicable following the expiration of the Deferral
Period specified in the Deferral Period Election, payable in the Mode of Payment specified in the Mode of Payment Election. If a Commissioned Participant commences distribution of his or her vested account balance while she or he remains actively
employed and Company contributions continue to be made to his or her account under this Plan in accordance with Section 4.1, then every five years after such Participant s initial distribution, such additional contributions which are made
during the Plan Year in which distributions commence and which are thereafter credited to the Participant s account prior to his or her Termination of Employment shall be distributed as follows:   
  (A) to the extent that such Participant is receiving a single sum, such additional amounts will be paid in a single sum; and   
  (B) to the extent that such Participant is receiving installment payments, such additional amounts will be equally divided among and
added to the number of remaining unpaid installments as of such date. If all installments have been paid, such additional amounts will be distributed to the Participant in a single sum.      4.9.  Administrative Participant s Election of Time and Form of Benefit Distribution after 2008 .      (a)  Distribution of Vested Account Balance if No Election in Force . Unless an Administrative Participant made an election under the provisions of this Plan as in effect prior to
January 1, 2007 or in accordance with Sections 4.6 or 4.7, such Participant will be deemed to have elected to receive his or her vested account balance in the Default Mode of Payment, payable as of the Default Commencement Date.

(b)  Rules Governing Election of the Time and Form of Benefit Distribution .
     (1)  Limitations on Timing of Elections . Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, all elections
under this subsection (b) shall be made in accordance with the following timing requirements:      (A) If the Administrative
Participant has not made a valid election under the provisions of this Plan as in effect prior to 2007 or in accordance with Section 4.6 or 4.7, and such Participant makes an election in accordance with this subsection (b) on or after
January 1, 2009, such election shall become effective immediately;      (B) If the Administrative Participant has previously
made a valid election under the provisions of this Plan as in effect prior to 2007 or in accordance with Section 4.6 or 4.7, and such Participant makes a new election on or after January 1, 2009, such election shall become effective
immediately;      (C) Notwithstanding any provision in this Section 4.9 to the contrary, in no event may a Participant make
an election under this subsection (b) following the date on which she or he experiences a Termination of Employment;      (2)
 Commencement of Distribution in Accordance with Election . If an Administrative Participant has made a valid election in accordance with this subsection (b) or has made a valid election prior to January 1, 2007, in accordance with
the terms of the Plan which were then in effect, or in accordance with Section 4.6 or 4.7, except as otherwise provided in Section 4.4(b), distribution of such Participant s vested account balance shall be made as soon as
administratively practicable following the expiration of the Deferral Period specified in the Deferral Period Election, payable in the Mode of Payment specified in the Mode of Payment Election.   

4.10.  Commissioned Participant s Election of Time and Form of Benefit Distribution after 2008 .
     (a)  Distribution of Vested Account Balance in Absence of Election . Unless a Commissioned Participant makes an
election on or after January 1, 2009, in accordance with subsection (b) or in accordance with Section 4.8, a Commissioned Participant will be deemed to have elected to receive his or her vested account balance in the Default Mode of
Payment, payable as of the Default Commencement Date, regardless of whether or not she or had previously experienced a Termination of Employment. If a Commissioned Participant to whom this subsection (a) applies remains actively employed and
Company contributions continue to be made to his or her account under this Plan in accordance with Section 4.1, then every five years after such Participant s initial distribution, such additional contributions which are made during the
Plan Year in which distributions commence and which are thereafter credited to the Participant s account prior to his or her Termination of Employment shall be distributed in a single sum.   
  (b)  Rules Governing Election of Time and Form of Benefit Distribution .   
  (1)  Limitations on Timing of Elections . Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, all elections under this
subsection (b) shall be made no later than the later of: (i) the September 30 of the Plan Year immediately preceding the Plan Year in which occurs the Default Commencement Date (if such Participant has not made a prior election under
this subsection (b) or in accordance with Section 4.8) or (ii) the September 30 of the Plan Year immediately preceding the Plan Year in which payment under such prior election was scheduled to commence. Any election under this
subsection (b) shall become effective immediately.   

(2)  Commencement of Distribution in Accordance with Participant Election . If a
Commissioned Participant has made a valid election in accordance with this subsection (b), distribution of such Participant s vested account balance shall be made as soon as administratively practicable following the expiration of the Deferral
Period specified in the Deferral Period Election, payable in the Mode of Payment specified in the Mode of Payment Election. If a Commissioned Participant commences distribution of his or her vested account balance while she or he remains actively
employed and Company contributions continue to be made to his or her account under this Plan in accordance with Section 4.1, then every five years after such Participant s initial distribution, such additional contributions which are made
during the Plan Year in which distributions commence and which are thereafter credited to the Participant s account prior to his or her Termination of Employment shall be distributed as follows:   
  (A) to the extent that such Participant is receiving a single sum, such additional amounts will be paid in a single sum; and   
  (B) to the extent that such Participant is receiving installment payments, such additional amounts will be equally divided among and
added to the number of remaining unpaid installments as of such date. If all installments have been paid, such additional amounts will be distributed to the Participant in a single sum.   

4.11.  In-Service Withdrawals and Loans Prohibited . Notwithstanding any provision in this Plan to the
contrary, except to the extent provided in Section 4.8 or 4.10, no benefits under this Plan will be eligible for distribution as an in-service withdrawal by a Participant or as a loan to any Participant.   
  4.12.  Distributions after Participant s Death . In the event of the Participant s death, regardless of whether benefits had commenced
prior to the date of the Participant s death and regardless of any previous election, then a single sum shall be paid to the Participant s Beneficiary (determined in accordance with Section 4.13) as soon as administratively
practicable following the date on which the Plan Administrator is duly notified of the Participant s death.      4.13.  Beneficiary .
Except as provided below, the Participant s Beneficiary shall be the beneficiary designated by the Participant under the Savings and Investment Plan. However, if the Participant filed a beneficiary designation under this Plan, such designation
shall supersede the Participant s beneficiary designation under the Savings and Investment Plan and upon the Participant s death, benefits shall be payable to the primary Beneficiary(ies) designated under this Plan. If there is more than
one beneficiary under the Savings and Investment Plan or more than one primary Beneficiary under this Plan and the beneficiary designation does not specify the percentage of the Participant s benefit to be paid to each such Beneficiary, each
Beneficiary shall share equally in the benefits under the Plan. If one or more Beneficiaries predecease the Participant, the surviving Beneficiary(ies) shall share equally in the deceased Beneficiary s portion of the Plan benefits. If all
primary Beneficiaries predecease the Participant, benefits shall be payable to the contingent Beneficiary(ies) upon the Participant s death. If there is more than one contingent Beneficiary(ies), and the contingent Beneficiary designation does
not specify the percentage of the Participant s benefit to be paid to each such Beneficiary, each contingent Beneficiary shall share equally in the benefits under the Plan. If one or more contingent Beneficiaries predecease the Participant, the
surviving contingent Beneficiary(ies) shall share   

equally in the deceased contingent Beneficiary s portion of the Plan benefits. If all contingent
Beneficiaries predecease the Participant, or if there is no beneficiary designation in effect on the date of the Participant s death, benefits will be payable to the Participant s surviving spouse or, in the absence of such spouse, to the
Participant s estate.      4.14.  No Duplication of Benefits . Notwithstanding any provision in this Plan to the contrary, no similar
benefit that is paid under this Plan shall be paid under any other deferred compensation plan(s) created by the Company or any of its affiliates.      Article 5    Unfunded Plan        The Plan is completely unfunded, and
payment of benefits is supported only by the general assets of each Company. This Plan is entirely separate from the Savings and Investment Plan and participation in this Plan gives a Participant no right to any funds or assets of the Savings and
Investment Plan. The fact that contracts or certificates of the Company may be distributed to recipients of benefits under the Savings and Investment Plan in discharge of the Company s obligations thereunder shall in no way entitle a
Participant in this Plan to receive any such contract or certificate in discharge of the Company s obligations hereunder.      Article 6
   Nontransferability of Participant s Interest        Except for any payments to a person other than the
Participant, to the extent of an election by such person which is reflected in, or made in accordance with the provisions of a domestic relations order, as defined in Code   414(p)(1)(B), no Participant shall have any power or right to
transfer, assign, mortgage, commute or otherwise encumber any of the benefits payable hereunder, nor shall such benefits be subject to seizure for the payment of any debts or judgments, or be transferable by operation of law in the event of
bankruptcy, insolvency or otherwise.   

Article 7    Effect of Taxes     
  In making payments under this Plan, the Company shall withhold any Federal, state or local income or other taxes it determines that it is
legally obligated to withhold. In the event the payments received by the Participant result in greater tax burdens (whether income, estate or other tax burdens) than they would if such payments had been able to be received under the Savings and
Investment Plan, the Company shall have no obligation to reimburse the Participant for such greater tax burdens.      Article 8  
 Administration of the Plan        8.1.  Plan Administrator s Interpretation Binding     
  The Plan Administrator is empowered to take all actions it deems appropriate in administering this Plan. In the event of a difference of
opinion between a Participant or Beneficiary(ies) and the Plan Administrator with respect to the meaning or application of the provisions of the Plan, the Plan Administrator s final interpretation shall be set forth in writing to the
Participant and shall be binding and conclusive. However, once a Change of Control (as defined in Article 11) has occurred, this Article 8 shall no longer apply to differences of opinion between the Plan Administrator and a Participant
regarding the application of Article 11 of this Plan to a Participant or with regard to any rights or benefits protected under Article 11 of this Plan or otherwise accrued prior to the Change of Control including the vesting thereof.

8.2.  Claims and Review Procedure; Limitations of Time for Submitting Claims and Suits Challenging Denial
of Claims .      (a)  Claims and Review Procedure . Claims for benefits and appeals of denied claims under the Plan
shall be administered in accordance with Section 503 of ERISA, the regulations thereunder (and any other law that amends, supplements or supersedes said Section of ERISA), and the procedures adopted by the Plan Administrator, or its delegate,
as appropriate. The claims procedures referenced above are incorporated herein by reference. The Plan shall provide adequate notice to any claimant whose claim for benefits under the Plan has been denied, setting forth the reasons for such denial,
and afford a reasonable opportunity to such claimant for a full and fair review by the Plan Administrator of the decision denying the claim. Benefits will be paid under the Plan only if the Plan Administrator, or its delegate, determines in its
discretion that the applicant is entitled to them.      (b)  Limitations of Time for Submitting Claims and Suits
Challenging Denial of Claims . No suit to recover benefits under this Plan shall be brought more than six months following the expiration of the claims and review procedures described in subsection (a).   
  Article 9    Governing Law        To the extent not inconsistent with Federal law, the validity of the Plan and its provisions shall be construed and governed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.   
  Article 10    Amendment and Termination of Plan        10.1  Amendment of the Plan . Except to the extent required by law, the Plan Administrator may amend this Plan at any time without the consent of any Participant or of any other person. However, any
such amendment will not affect adversely the benefit entitlements of:      (a) Any Participant receiving benefits under the Plan
at or prior to the time of such amendment, or   

(b) Any employee who is a Participant in the Savings and Investment Plan to the extent of
the account balance under this Plan prior to the time of such amendment. However, amendments may be made to all other aspects of this Plan including, but not limited to:   

(i)  
  Amendments impacting the timing under which the Participant s entire account balance is paid, or,     

(ii)  
  Amendments impacting the optional forms of distribution available for payment of the Participant s entire account.     
  Notwithstanding the above, any amendment or group of amendments made effective on the same date, which would increase or decrease the
annual cost of Plan benefits for active Plan Participants and former Plan Participants by ten million dollars or more in the aggregate, as determined in good faith by the Plan Administrator, shall take effect only after the action is authorized or
ratified by the Board of Directors of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.      10.2  Termination of the Plan . The Plan Administrator may
elect to terminate this Plan subject to the following requirements:      (a) The termination of the Plan does not occur
proximate to a downturn in the financial health of the Company;      (b) The Company terminates and liquidates all methods,
programs and other arrangements maintained by the Company or any Affiliate providing for deferrals of compensation other than at the election of the service provider, within the meaning of Reg.   1.409A-1(c)(2)(B);   

(c) No payments in liquidation of the Plan are made within 12 months of the date
the Company takes all necessary action to irrevocably terminate and liquidate the Plan other than payments that would be payable under the terms of the Plan if the action to terminate and liquidate the Plan had not occurred;   
  (d) All payments are made within 24 months of the date the Company takes all necessary action to irrevocably terminate and
liquidate the Plan; and      (e) The Company does not adopt a new plan providing for deferrals of compensation other than at
the election of the service provider, within the meaning of Reg.   1.409A-1(c)(2)(B) if the Participant participated in both plans, at any time within three years following the date that the Company takes all necessary action to irrevocably
terminate and liquidate this Plan. However, such termination will not adversely affect the benefit entitlements of:      (1) Any
Participant receiving benefits under the Plan at or prior to the time of such termination; or      (2) Any employee who is a
Participant in the Savings and Investment Plan to the extent of the account balance under this Plan prior to the time of such termination.   
  10.3  Effect of Change of Control . Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 10.1 above, or any other provision of this Plan, on or after a
Change of Control (as defined in Article 11),      (a) Amendments can no longer be made to or have any impact upon
Article 8, Section 10.3 of Article 10 or Article 11 of this Plan; and      (b) Participants who:
     (i) Accrued rights or benefits under this Plan prior to a Change of Control (as defined in Article 11), and,   

(ii) Whose rights or benefits are not vested at the time of the Change of Control
     cannot have the vesting schedule under Section 4.2, applicable on the day prior to the Change of Control, amended with regard to such
rights or benefits, and cannot forfeit, or be deprived of, their right to vest in these accrued benefits due to any amendment or termination of this Plan.      Article 11.  Change of Control        11.1.  Definitions .   
  (a)  Change of Control . For the purposes of this Plan, a  Change of Control  shall be deemed to have occurred if:
     (i) Any Person acquires  beneficial ownership  (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Corporation representing 25% or more of the combined Voting Power of the Corporation s securities;   

(ii) Within any 24-month period, the persons who were directors of the Corporation at the
beginning of such period (the  Incumbent Directors ) shall cease to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the  Board ) or the board of directors of any successor to the Corporation;
 provided ,  however ,  that  any director elected or nominated for election to the Board by a majority of the Incumbent Directors then still in office shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director for purposes of this
Section 11.1(a)(ii);      (iii) The stockholders of the Corporation approve a merger, consolidation, share exchange,
division, sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation which is consummated (a  Corporate Event ), and immediately following the consummation of which the stockholders of the Corporation
immediately   

prior to such Corporate Event do not hold, directly or indirectly, a majority of the Voting Power of (A) in the case of a merger or consolidation, the surviving or resulting corporation,
(B) in the case of a share exchange, the acquiring corporation, or (C) in the case of a division or a sale or other disposition of assets, each surviving, resulting or acquiring corporation which, immediately following the relevant
Corporate Event, holds more than 25% of the consolidated assets of the Corporation immediately prior to such Corporate Event; or      (iv) Any other event occurs which the Board declares to be a Change of Control.   
  (b)  Corporation . For the Purposes of this Article,  Corporation  means MetLife, Inc.   
  (c)  Person . For purposes of the definition of Change of Control,  Person  shall have the meaning ascribed to such
term in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as supplemented by Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, and shall include any group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b) under the Exchange Act);  provided ,  however ,  that 
 Person  shall not include (A) the Corporation or any Affiliate, (B) the MetLife Policyholder Trust (or any person(s) who would otherwise be described herein solely by reason of having the power to control the voting of the
shares held by that trust), or (C) any employee benefit plan (including an employee stock ownership plan) sponsored by the Corporation, Company or any Affiliate.      (d)  Voting Power . For purposes of the definition of Change of Control,  Voting Power  shall mean such number of Voting Securities as shall enable the holders thereof to cast all the
votes which could be cast in an annual election of directors of a company, and  Voting Securities  shall mean all securities entitling the holders thereof to vote in an annual election of directors of a company.   

(e)  Affiliate . For the purposes of this article, an  Affiliate  shall
mean any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust or other entity which directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, the Corporation.   
  (f)  Cause . For the purposes of this article,  Cause  means either:   
  (i) The Participant s conviction or plea of nolo contendere to a felony, or,   
  (ii) Any act or acts of dishonesty or gross misconduct on the Participant s part which results or is intended to result in material
damage to the business or reputation of MetLife.      (g)  Good Reason . For the purposes of this article,  Good
Reason  means any of:      (i) Any reduction by the Corporation or an Affiliate in the Participant s base salary rate
below the rate in effect immediately before the date of the Change of Control;      (ii) Any relocation by the Corporation or an
Affiliate of the Participant s usual base work location to any other office or location more than 50 miles from the Participant s usual base work location immediately prior to a Change of Control, except for travel reasonably required in
the performance of the Participant s responsibilities;      (iii) If the Participant is a party to an Employment Continuation
Agreement with the Corporation or an Affiliate, any circumstance or occurrence constituting  Good Reason  under that Employment Continuation Agreement; or      (iv) The failure of the Corporation or an Affiliate to pay the Employee s base salary or employee benefits as required by law.   

11.2.  Vesting and Other Rights on and After a Change of Control Subject to Conditions  In the event
that:      (a) There is a Change of Control as defined in Section 11.1(a) of this Article, and,   
  (b) On the date of the Change of Control or on a date before the second anniversary of the Change of Control, a Participant in this
Plan:      (i) Is involuntarily terminated from employment by the Corporation or any Affiliate (other than directly in connection
with a transfer of employment to or from the Corporation or any Affiliate) without Cause, or      (ii) Voluntarily terminates
employment with the Corporation or any Affiliate for Good Reason,      then the Participant s benefits and rights accrued as of the Change of
Control under the Savings and Investment Plan and this Plan will vest immediately under this Plan, notwithstanding any other provision of the Savings and Investment Plan or this Plan, or any amendment or termination of this Plan taking place on or
after a Change of Control.      These account balances will be paid under this Plan according to the ordinary distribution rules
of this Plan. The ordinary distribution rules of this Plan are described in Article 4 as it existed immediately prior to the Change of Control.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this restated Plan to be executed in its name and behalf this 20   th    day of December, 2007, by its officer thereunto duly authorized.   

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY    

/s/ Margery Brittain    
 
   Witness   

/s/ Bonita Haskins   

</EX-10.72>

<EX-10.75>
 18
 d450627dex1075.htm
 EX-10.75

EX-10.75 

Exhibit 10.75       AMENDMENT NUMBER 3 TO THE      METROPOLITAN LIFE   
  AUXILIARY SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN      (Amended and Restated, Effective January 1, 2008)      The METROPOLITAN LIFE AUXILIARY SAVINGS
AND INVESTMENT PLAN (the  Plan ) is hereby amended, effective as of the dates set forth below, as follows:      1. Article 1 of the Plan
is hereby amended, effective January 1, 2013, by restating the first sentence thereof in its entirety to read as follows:   
   The purpose of this Plan is to provide Company Contributions on behalf of employees and their Beneficiaries whose Company matching
contributions under the Savings and Investment Plan for Employees of Metropolitan Life and Participating Affiliates ( Savings and Investment Plan ) are reduced or eliminated solely because of the application of the limitations of
(i) Section 415(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ), (ii) Section 401(a)(17) of the Code, or (iii) Section 1.415(c)-2(c) of the Income Tax Regulations.    
  2. Article 3 of the Plan is hereby amended, effective January 1, 2013, by restating it in its entirety to read as follows:   
    Participation . Each Participant in the Savings and Investment Plan who has elected to make before-tax salary deferral
contributions, after-tax contributions or Roth 401(k) contributions to the Savings and Investment Plan with respect to one or more payroll periods during the Plan Year and whose Company matching contributions under the Savings and Investment Plan
during any payroll period for which such before-tax salary deferral contributions, after-tax contributions or Roth 401(k) contributions election is in effect are reduced or eliminated because of the application of the limitations of
(i) Section 415 of the Code, (ii) Section 401(a)(17) of the Code, or (iii) Section 1.415(c)-2(c) of the Income Tax Regulations, shall be a Participant under this Plan.    
  3. Section 4.1(a) of the Plan is hereby amended, effective January 1, 2013, by restating it in its entirety to read as follows:   
    In General . Except as provided in subsection (b), for each Plan Year, the Company shall contribute to this Plan, on behalf of
each Participant, the amount of Company Contributions equal to the amount of Company matching contributions that would have been made to the Savings and Investment Plan had the limitations of Sections 415 and 401(a)(17) of the Code and
Section 1.415(c)-2(c) of the Income Tax Regulations not applied to the Participant s account under the Savings and Investment Plan.    
         1   

4. Article 7 of the Plan is hereby amended, effective January 1, 2012, by restating the first sentence
thereof in its entirety to read as follows:       The Company shall have the ability to withhold any tax amounts (whether
income, employment, estate or other tax) it determines, in its discretion, is due and owing from the Participant to the Company, whether the tax obligation arose on account of the benefit under this Plan or arose due to other wages payable by the
Company to the Participant. If, however, tax is determined, in the discretion of the Company and in accordance with any process the Plan Administrator approves for the determination and collection of taxes, to be due and owing from the Participant,
at a time other than when amounts are due to be paid from this Plan, then the Company will have the discretion to reduce the accrued benefit or account balance of the Participant in this Plan by the amount of any tax that it determines is due and
owing.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this amendment to be executed in its name and behalf this
19   th      day of December, 2012, by its officer
thereunto duly authorized.       

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY   

/s/ Andrew Bernstein    

ATTEST:  
     
  /s/ Danielle Hodorowski   
 
         2   

</EX-10.75>

<EX-10.81>
 19
 d450627dex1081.htm
 EX-10.81

EX-10.81 

Exhibit 10.81    
   This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities    
   that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.    
  Amendment Number One to the      MetLife Leadership Deferred Compensation Plan      The MetLife Leadership Deferred
Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) is hereby amended as follows:      1. Section 10.3.9 of the Plan is hereby amended and restated in
its entirety as follows:       

10.3.9  
  Payment(s) of a Participant s Deferred Compensation Account shall be made on the earlier of the date payable or after any delays in payment required under Legal
Deferral Requirements have passed. A Participant who is a  Specified Employee  as determined under the provisions of the MetLife Auxiliary Pension Plan who has elected to commence distributions upon separation from service or at retirement
from active service shall have his/her payments delayed until the earlier of (a) the date six months after the Participant s separation from service, or (b) the date of death of the Participant. In no event shall MetLife, Inc., any
Affiliate, or the Plan have any liability to anyone on account of payment being made later than the date payable due to administrative considerations or otherwise.        2. Section 22.2 of the Plan is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:       

22.2  
   Cash Incentive Compensation  shall mean compensation payable in the form of cash under the MetLife Annual Variable Incentive Compensation Plan, the
Institutional Regional Executive Plan, the International Long Term Performance Compensation Plan, the Long Term Performance Compensation Plan (and, in the case of each incentive compensation plan, any successor plan(s)), payments of the nature of
incentive compensation to an 090 Employee, or any other compensation payable in the form of cash (other than salary) to any Eligible Participant to the extent deemed covered by this definition from time to time by the Plan Administrator in its
discretion, but (for greater clarity) shall not include any payments in lieu of compensation payable under any such plans contingent on a separation agreement, release, or similar agreement.     
  3. This amendment shall be effective on December 31, 2007.      In witness where, the Plan Administrator has executed this amendment on the date noted below.       

PLAN ADMINISTRATOR   

/s/ Margery Brittain   
 
  Date:  December 13, 2007            
 
  Witness:  /s/ Bonita Haskins            

</EX-10.81>

<EX-10.90>
 20
 d450627dex1090.htm
 EX-10.90

EX-10.90 

Exhibit 10.90    
   The MetLife Non-Management       Director Deferred Compensation Plan       December 2007   

Important Notices       This Program Description provides an
overview of the MetLife Non-Management Director Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Plan ). It is also the official plan document that legally governs the Plan. This Plan document will govern in every respect and instance, and replaces and
supersedes prior Plan documents.      This Program Description may be updated from time to time to implement
changes in the Plan. Fund performance data will be updated periodically. These updates will constitute part of the Prospectus distributed with respect to the Plan.   
  The Plan Administrator may amend, alter or terminate the Plan in accordance with its terms at any time and for any
reason. The Plan was effective on January 1, 2005, and the Plan will continue in effect until it is amended, suspended, or terminated according to its terms. This Plan was designed to replace the MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside
Directors and Article VII of the MetLife, Inc. 2000 Directors Stock Plan, respectively, beginning with 2005 compensation deferrals; earlier deferrals will remain governed by the earlier plans.   
  MetLife, Inc. will have the obligation to pay amounts deferred under the Plan. MetLife, Inc. s
obligations are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Since this is an unfunded plan, your rights or claims against assets or property are no greater than those of a general unsecured creditor of MetLife, Inc. Your deferrals may
gain or lose value over time; see  Investment Tracking For Your Deferred Cash Accounts  and  MetLife Deferred Stock Accounts  below. Shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock paid under the Plan may be shares of treasury common stock
or authorized but unissued common stock.   
   This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities   
  that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.   
  The date of this Prospectus is December 2007.   
         2   

Plan At-a-Glance        

Purpose   
      
  To provide eligible directors with the opportunity to defer their cash and MetLife Stock compensation, thereby deferring payment of federal and most state income taxes on such
compensation.   

Eligibility   
      
  Directors of MetLife, Inc. who are not employees of MetLife, Inc. or any of its affiliates.   

Election Options   
      
          Deferral amount    

Investment tracking funds (for cash deferrals)    

Distribution date    

Number of distribution payments    

Annual Enrollment Period   
      
  The 2008 annual enrollment will be open December 6, 2007   December 28, 2007.   

Enrollment Period for New Directors   
      
  Newly-appointed directors may make a deferral election for fees payable in the calendar year in which they are elected, but must do so by the earlier of the next Directors
meeting attended for which they earn fees or the 30th day after appointment.   

Investment Tracking   
      
  Your deferred cash compensation accounts will be credited with gains and losses reflecting the performance of the investment tracking funds and indices you
select.   

Investment Tracking Fund Changes   
      
  Limited to a total of six times per year for future deferrals and existing account balances.   

Changes in Amounts Deferred   
      
  None allowed, except for hardship.   

Form of Distribution   
      
  Your deferred cash compensation will be paid in cash at the end of the deferral period. Your deferred awards of MetLife Stock will be paid in the form of such stock, with imputed
reinvested dividends, at the end of the deferral period.   

Distribution:   

Number   
      
  Lump-sum payment or up to 15 annual installments.   

Timing   
      
  Beginning upon earlier of 60 days after termination of service as a director or on a designated future date.   

Hardship   
      
  Immediate lump-sum payment (availability strictly limited).   

Changes to Distribution Date and/or Number of Payments   
      
  You may change the distribution date to a date at least five years later than the date you originally selected, and/or change the number of payments. Your change will only be
effective if you submit your request no later than one year before the earlier of the end of your service as a director or the date of payment you originally selected.   

Taxes   
      
  Deferred compensation is taxable as ordinary income at the time of distribution. Rollover to an IRA, qualified plan or non-qualified plan is not permitted.   

Beneficiary   
      
  Upon your death, any existing account balances will be paid to your designated beneficiary or beneficiaries in a lump sum.   

Plan Funding   
      
  The Plan is a non-qualified, unfunded plan. Your accounts are maintained for record-keeping purposes only.   
 
         3   

MetLife Non-Management Director Deferred Compensation Plan    
  The MetLife Non-Management Director Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) allows eligible directors to defer receiving a portion of their
annual retainer, committee chair fees, and meeting fees, if any, payable in cash or shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock ( MetLife Stock ) for services in 2005 and thereafter, thereby deferring payment of federal and most state income
taxes until a later date when the deferred payments are received. Participation in the Plan is completely voluntary.       Eligibility
      Members of the Board of Directors of MetLife, Inc. (the  Board ) who are not employees of MetLife, Inc. or any of its affiliates
( Non-Management Directors ) are eligible to participate. In this Program Description,  you  refers to a director who is eligible to participate in the Plan.       Making a Deferral Election       Prior to each year in which you will provide services as a
Non-Management Director, you may defer all or a portion of fees payable as compensation for such services. Deferrals begin with the first fees payable for such services during a calendar year and end with the last fees payable during the calendar
year. Designations do not carry over from year to year; you must make a new designation each year.      When you are elected to the Board, you may
defer all or a portion of your fees payable in that calendar year by submitting a deferral election before the earlier of (1) the first meeting that you attend for which you earn fees; or (2) the thirtieth day after you become eligible to
participate in the Plan.        
  The MetLife Non-Management Director Deferred Compensation Plan is a non-qualified plan that is unfunded
and subject to the risks described in this document. Amounts credited to an account are solely for record-keeping purposes. The Plan is not subject to full protection under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA).
  
   To defer your cash compensation, you need to complete a deferral election form specifying:   

The percentage of your cash fees you want deferred into a Deferred Cash Account (if you choose to defer any of your cash fees, your deferral must equal
at least $10,000.00);          

The investment tracking funds that will be used to adjust the value of that Deferred Cash Account; and      

A future distribution date and number of payments for that Deferred Cash Account (paid in cash).      
         4   

To defer your MetLife Stock compensation, you need to complete a deferral election form specifying:

The percentage of your MetLife Stock fees you want deferred into a MetLife Deferred Stock Account; and      

The future distribution date and number of payments for your MetLife Deferred Stock Account.      
  Your deferral election form must be submitted during the enrollment period. If you submit an election form that does not specify when payment is to be
made, payment will be made upon the termination of your service as a Non-Management Director. If you submit an election form that does not specify the number of installments in which payment should be made, payment will be made in a single lump sum.
     Before making your elections, you may wish to consult a tax or personal financial advisor regarding all of the ramifications of deferral of
compensation under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and all other requirements under law for deferral of income taxation ( Legal Deferral Requirements ).      All deferrals are subject to the terms of this Plan.       Income Taxes    
  Compensation is not subject to current taxation under federal and most state income tax laws at the time it is deferred. Deferred compensation to
Non-Management Directors is not subject to Social Security or Medicare taxes, but it is subject to tax under the Self-Employment Contributions Act (SECA) when the amounts are includible in your income. You should consult with a tax or personal
financial advisor to determine whether you must pay SECA on these amounts when received.       Deferral Amounts    
  During the annual enrollment period, you may elect to defer all or a portion of your fees payable in the following year for services as a director of
MetLife, Inc. If you choose to defer any of your cash fees, you must defer at least $10,000.      Once you elect your deferral amount, you may not
change it. You may, however, suspend deferrals in cases of extreme hardship as provided in the Plan. See  Hardship Exceptions,  below.       Deferred Compensation Accounts       If you defer any or all of your cash compensation, a
Deferred Cash Account in your name for that year s deferrals will be established for record-keeping purposes. If you defer any of your MetLife Stock compensation, a MetLife Deferred Stock Account in your name for that year s deferrals will
be established for record-keeping purposes. You will receive account statements annually.      Your accounts will be credited effective on the
date on which your fees would have been payable had you not elected to defer receipt of such fees.   
         5   

Investment Tracking For Your Deferred Cash Accounts    
  Investment tracking funds are used as a device for adjusting the value of your Deferred Cash Accounts from the time contributions are made until the time
payments are distributed from your Deferred Cash Accounts based on fund performance. Your deferred cash account will not actually be invested in the funds.      Each investment tracking fund reflects the investment performance of the actual fund or index, including any management fees and/or other expenses that apply to the fund. Gains or losses, measured each
day the relevant stock market is open, will be credited or debited from your account, in effect  mirroring  the performance of the specified fund or index, determined on a Total Return basis.  Total Return  reflects the change
(positive or negative) in the value of your account, including dividends (if any) on a reinvested basis. If the aggregate performance of the funds mirrored by the investment tracking funds you choose is positive, the value of your account will
increase; if it is negative, the value of your account will decrease.      You may change your allocation among investment tracking funds  
either with regard to future deferrals or your existing account   at any time during the year by accessing the Plan s website at  www.benefitplanservices.com/metlife  (click on Change Allocations) or by calling Benefit Plan Services,
Inc. (BPSI) at 1-800-340-8151. Keep in mind, you can make no more than six fund allocation changes per year. For this purpose, all changes submitted on the same day will count as a single change. You can elect to allocate your account among one
or more of the investment tracking funds in 5% increments. If you have provided BPSI with your e-mail address, you will receive confirmation of your changes shortly after they are made.      Allocations into and out of the MetLife Common Stock Fund must be pre-cleared with the Corporate Secretary in accordance with the MetLife Insider Trading Policy.   
  Following is a list of the investment tracking funds currently available in the Plan. The Plan, however, may be amended by the Plan Administrator to
change, eliminate or replace any investment tracking fund or index at any time. See the  Plan Administrator  section for more information.       

Actively Managed Funds    
      
     Market Indexes     

MetLife SIP Fixed Income Fund   
      
  S P 500      Index   
 
    Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Fund   
      
  Russell 2000      Index   
 
    Oakmark
Fund        
      
  MSCI EAFE      Index   
 
    MetLife SIP Small Company Stock Fund   
      
  Lehman Brothers      Aggregate Bond
Index   
 
    Oakmark International Fund   
      
  Merrill Lynch US High Yield Master II Index MSCI Emerging Markets Index   SM      

Single-Stock Fund   

MetLife Common Stock Fund   *      

*  
  This investment tracking fund may be used to adjust the value of any or all of your Deferred Cash Compensation Account. Values are tracked in this investment tracking
fund using the value and performance of MetLife Stock, but payment is made in cash. Your MetLife Deferred Stock Account, which consists of deferred MetLife Stock payments, is paid out in the form of MetLife Stock.     
         6   

MetLife Deferred Stock Accounts       Your MetLife Deferred Stock Accounts will reflect the number of shares of MetLife Stock you deferred, plus imputed reinvested dividends (on the same basis as such dividends are paid on actual shares of
MetLife Stock).      The value of your MetLife Deferred Stock Account will depend on the price of MetLife Stock, which is affected by market
conditions and other factors, such as declared dividends. As a result, the value of your MetLife Deferred Stock Account is anticipated to have a relatively high risk profile.      Your MetLife Deferred Stock Accounts will be appropriately adjusted (as determined by the Governance Committee of the Board, or its successor) in the event of any MetLife Stock dividend, MetLife Stock
split, recapitalization (including, but not limited, to the payment of an extraordinary dividend), merger, consolidation, combination, or spin-off affecting MetLife, Inc. capitalization, distribution of MetLife, Inc. assets to holders of MetLife
Stock (other than ordinary cash dividends), exchange of shares, or other similar corporate change.      The performance of MetLife Deferred Stock
Awards will be identical to that of the MetLife Common Stock Fund, and is labeled the  MetLife Deferred Shares Fund  in the  Total Return Historic Fund   Index Performance by Calendar Year  chart.   
   The Distribution Dates       For each of your
Deferred Cash Accounts and your MetLife Deferred Stock Accounts separately, you may choose to have your distributions begin either (1) on a specific date no less than three years after the year of deferral (for example: for payments
attributable to services performed in 2008, the date you may choose may not be earlier than 2012), or (2) upon the termination of your service as a Non-Management Director of MetLife, Inc. (the date of your termination of service will be
determined in accordance with Legal Deferral Requirements). If you choose to receive your account on a specific date, your account will be paid to you on the earlier of (a) the date you selected, or (b) on the date of the termination of
your service as a director.      Once you have designated a distribution date, you cannot change it except as described below under  Changing
the Distribution Date And/Or Number of Payments.        Number of Payments    
  You may elect to receive each of your account balances in either a lump-sum payment or up to 15 annual installments. For each of your
Deferred Cash Accounts, each annual installment will be a fraction of the account s cash value with one being the numerator and the number of payments remaining being the denominator. For each of your MetLife Deferred Stock Accounts, each
annual installment will be a fraction of the number of shares of MetLife Stock represented in the account, with one being the numerator and the number of payments remaining being the denominator and disregarding any fraction of a share until the
last installment. For example, if you elect to receive 10 annual payments, the first payment is equal to
1/10   th    of the account; the second payment is equal to
1/9   th    of the account; and so on until final payment is
made. For purposes of Legal Deferral Rules, any payment option selected under this plan will be considered to be a single payment form of benefit.   
         7   

Form of Payments       All payments from your Deferred Cash Accounts (including portions invested in the MetLife Common Stock Fund) will be made in cash. All payments from your MetLife Deferred Stock Account will be made in
MetLife Stock, except that fractional shares will be paid in cash at the Closing Price of MetLife Stock on the date of payment.   *          Taxation
of Payments       Generally, payments are subject to federal, state and local tax income taxes in the year you receive the amounts. Rollover to
an IRA, qualified plan or non-qualified plan is not permitted.       Changing the Distribution Date And/Or Number of Payments    
  For each of your Deferred Cash Account and your MetLife Deferred Stock Account for a given year, you may make changes only once, at which time you may
change either or both: (1) the date you have selected to receive payment of your deferred compensation to a date at least five (5) years later than your original selection; and/or (2) the number of payments you have chosen to receive
(your change may increase or decrease the number of payments). You must make all changes to any particular account at the same time;  provided, however , that your changes are effective if you submit them no later than one year before the
earlier of the original date you had selected for payment or the date your service as a Non-Management Director ends, and otherwise will not be effective .  All changes will be effective to the extent consistent with Legal Deferral
Requirements.       Payment to Beneficiaries       If you die before your distributions begin or are completed, the balance in your accounts will be paid as a single lump sum to your beneficiary. If you have not designated a beneficiary, or your
beneficiary (or beneficiaries) die(s) before you do, the balance in your accounts will be paid to your estate.      You may designate an
individual, entity, trustee, or your estate as your beneficiary, and you may change your beneficiary at any time. Each beneficiary designation will apply to all of your deferrals under the Plan, and will supersede your previous beneficiary
designations. Unless or until you submit a new beneficiary designation form, your last beneficiary designation (if any) under the MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors (or, if you have not designated a beneficiary under that plan,
the beneficiary you have designated under the MetLife, Inc. 2000 Directors Stock Plan, if any) will apply under this Plan.       

*  
   Closing Price  means the closing price of a share of MetLife Stock as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system for the New York
Stock Exchange (or on such other recognized quotation system on which the trading prices of shares of MetLife Stock are quoted at the relevant time) on such date. In the event that there are no transactions of MetLife Stock reported on such tape (or
such other system) on such date, Closing Price shall mean the closing price on the immediately preceding date on which MetLife Stock transactions were so reported.     
         8   

You may designate your beneficiary(ies) during each annual enrollment period. If you wish to change your
beneficiary designations during the year you may access the website www.benefitplanservices.com/metlife (by clicking on Beneficiary Detail) or contact BPSI at 1-800-340-8151 and they will send you a form on which you can make your new beneficiary
elections.       Loans       No loans
may be taken from your accounts.       Hardship Exceptions       In cases of extreme hardship, and consistent with legal requirements for deferral of income taxation, the Plan Administrator may suspend deferrals or make payments to you, reducing the value of your
account. However, the total amount suspended and advanced cannot exceed the amount required to satisfy the financial consequences of the hardship and tax withholding requirements.       Unfunded, Unsecured Obligations of MetLife, Inc.       Deferrals under the Plan are unfunded and
unsecured obligations of MetLife, Inc. Your rights are those of a general unsecured creditor of MetLife, Inc. The Plan is intended to be designed and administered in complete accordance with Legal Deferral Requirements, but in no event will MetLife,
Inc., any affiliate, or the Plan be liable for any taxes, penalties, or other losses on account of the Plan or its administration failing to comply with Legal Deferral Requirements.       Assignment       No assignment or pledge of the right to receive the payment of amounts deferred
or any other rights under the Plan may be made.       Qualified Domestic Relations Orders ( QDROs )    
  Deferred compensation will be distributed or attached to the extent required by a QDRO.       Plan Administrator       The Plan is administered by a Plan Administrator who may establish,
amend or rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan. The Plan Administrator of this Plan is also the Plan Administrator of the Metropolitan Life Retirement Plan for U.S. Employees. The Employee Benefits Committee of the Metropolitan Life
Insurance Company appoints the Plan Administrator of the Retirement Plan, who serves until such time as the Committee appoints a new Plan Administrator.      To the extent consistent with law, including Legal Deferral Requirements, the Plan Administrator may amend, modify, suspend, or terminate the Plan at any time and for any reason. The Plan Administrator
may not amend, modify or terminate the Plan in a way that will reduce the amount that has been accrued in your deferred compensation account prior to the effective date of the amendment, modification or termination.   
         9   

The determinations and interpretations of the Plan made by the Plan Administrator shall be final, binding,
and conclusive for all purposes under the Plan. The Plan Administrator may prescribe forms for participants to take action authorized or allowed under the Plan and may appoint agents and consult legal counsel and other professionals to assist in
administration of the Plan. The Plan Administrator may, in his or her discretion, adjust the value of a deferred compensation account on a basis other than as prescribed in deferral or reallocation elections, including but not limited to the use of
investment tracking funds other than those selected by the participant. The Plan Administrator will administer any claims under the Plan by following Section 503 of ERISA, any applicable regulations, and any other procedures the Plan
Administrator adopts.      The Plan Administrator may reject or reform a deferral election on any lawful basis, and may conform any provision of
the Plan to Legal Deferral Requirements. Where consistent with such requirements, the Plan Administrator may pay deferred compensation regardless of the participant s election for payment at another time.   
   Investment Tracking Funds and Indices   Additional Information       Each investment tracking fund and index mirrors the performance of the actual fund or index to which it refers. Following are descriptions and historic performance data for the actual funds and indices,
determined on a Total Return basis. Total Return means the change in price or value, plus dividends (if any) on a reinvested basis, less any management fees or expenses that apply under the actual fund.   
  There is no guarantee that any of the funds will achieve its objectives or increase in value. Except to the extent you choose the investment tracking
fund for the MetLife SIP Fixed Income Fund, your deferrals may lose value. Each actively managed fund has investment management fees and/or other expenses associated with it. The descriptions below are derived from information provided by the funds
and other sources deemed to be reliable by the Plan Administrator.       Actively Managed Funds    
   MetLife SIP Fixed Income Fund:  The fund seeks to generate a predictable return through a specified interest rate, with preservation of original
principle invested. The Fixed Income Fund crediting rate is re-evaluated during the year. Changes may be made to the rate, up or down as appropriate, based on market conditions and the performance of the Fixed Income Fund Assets. The fund invests in
several MetLife issued GIC (Guaranteed Investment Contracts) Alternatives, which consist of bonds, international securities, public utilities and similar corporate issues. Participants receive a blended rate of return based on a weighted average of
all the separate interest rates payable under the various underlying assets.   
         10   

Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Fund:  This fund (the Lord Abbett Bond Debenture
Portfolio of the Met Investor Series Trust) is a mutual fund investment choice available under various variable insurance contracts issued by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and its affiliates. The fund seeks to provide high current income
and the opportunity for capital appreciation to produce a high total return. Under normal circumstances, the fund invests substantially all (at least 80%) of its net assets in bond, debenture and other fixed income securities. The fund normally
invests substantially all of its assets in high-yield and investment-grade debt securities. It may also invest in securities convertible into common stocks. Up to 80% of the fund s assets may be invested in high-yield/high-risk debt securities
( junk bonds ). In no event will the Portfolio invest more than 10% of its gross assets at the time of investment in debt securities which are in default as to interest or principal. At least 20% of the fund s assets must be invested
in any combination of investment-grade debt securities, U.S. Government securities, and cash equivalents. The fund may also invest up to 20% of its net assets in equity securities including common stocks, preferred stocks, convertible preferred
stocks, warrants and similar instruments. The fund may invest up to 15% of its assets in credit default swaps. The fund may also invest up to 20% of its net assets in debt and equity securities primarily traded in foreign countries. The fund
attempts to invest in securities selling at reasonable prices in relation to the adviser s assessment of its potential value.    A, D           Oakmark Fund     :  This fund is a mutual fund and seeks to
achieve long-term capital appreciation following a value style by investing primarily in the common stocks of U.S. companies.    A,       D,       E,       F,       G,       H          MetLife SIP Small Company Stock Fund:  This fund is an individually managed fund that seeks to generate long-term growth of capital by investing in the stocks of smaller U.S. companies with strong
growth potential. The fund seeks to outperform the Russell 2000 Growth      Index which measures the performance of
small company stocks with lower market capitalization. Assets are diversified in the stocks of small companies which generally have market capitalization under $2 billion. Small companies generally reinvest their profits back into the company to
support future growth and therefore normally pay little or no dividends. Historically, however, their stock prices have had more potential to increase than those of larger companies. The fund s growth strategy focuses on companies that show an
established pattern of business success, typically including accelerated growth, strong balance sheets, unique market positions and excellent management. The fund normally holds approximately 40 to 60 individual stocks.   G      
   Oakmark International Fund:  This mutual fund seeks to achieve long-term capital appreciation following a value style by
investing primarily in the common stocks of non-U.S. companies. The fund may invest in mature markets (e.g., Japan, Canada, United Kingdom) and in less developed markets (e.g., Mexico, Brazil, South Korea). Ordinarily, the fund will invest in the
securities of at least five countries outside the U.S. There are no geographic limits on the fund s foreign investments, but the fund does not expect to invest more than 35% of its assets in securities of companies based in emerging
markets.    B, E, F, G, H      
   Market Indexes    
   S P
500      Index:  This index measures the stock performance of 500 leading companies in leading industries of the
U.S. economy and is one of the most widely recognized and used benchmarks of U.S. equity performance.    C,       E,       H      
         11   

Russell 2000      Index:  This index measures stock performance of 2,000 smaller U.S. companies with market capitalization under $5.2 billion as of September 30,
2007.    C      ,G,H      
   MSCI
EAFE      Index:  The Morgan Stanley Capital International Europe, Australasia, Far East Index is a benchmark for
developed market equity performance, excluding the United States and Canada. As of June 2007, the MSCI EAFE Index consisted of the following 21 developed market country indices: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany,
Greece, Hong Kong, Ireland, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom.    B, E, F, G          Lehman Brothers      Aggregate Bond Index:  This index covers the
U.S. dollar denominated, investment-grade, fixed-rate, taxable bond market of SEC registered securities. The index includes bonds from the Treasury, Government-Related, Corporate, Mortgage Backed Securities (agency fixed-rate and hybrid adjustable
rate mortgage pass-throughs), asset-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities sectors. U.S. Agency Hybrid Adjustable Rate Mortgage securities were added to the index in April 2007. Lehman Brothers refers to this index as the
Lehman Brothers U.S. Aggregate Index.   A      , B      
   Merrill Lynch US High Yield Master II Index:  The Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II Index tracks the performance of
below investment-grade U.S. dollar-denominated corporate bonds publicly issued in the U.S. domestic market.    A      ,D   
      MSCI Emerging Markets Index  SM   :    The MSCI Emerging Markets Index is designed to measure
equity market performance in global emerging markets. As of June 2007, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index consisted of the following 25 emerging market country indices: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, Czech Republic, Egypt, Hungary,
India, Indonesia, Israel, Jordan, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Russia, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand and Turkey.    B, E, F, G           Single-Stock Fund        MetLife Common Stock Fund:  The performance of this fund will
depend on the price of MetLife, Inc. common stock, which is affected by market conditions and other factors, such as declared dividends. Like other individual stock funds, this fund is anticipated to have a relatively high risk profile. The
performance of this fund also includes the value of reinvested dividends on MetLife, Inc. common stock, if any.       

A   
        Bond and other
fixed-income securities involve both credit risk and market risk which includes interest rate risk. Credit risk is the risk that the security s issuer will not pay the interest, dividends or principal that it has promised to pay. Market risk is
the risk that the value of the security will fall because of changes in market rates of interest or other factors. Interest rate risk reflects the fact that the values of fixed-income security tend to fall as interest rates rise. When interest rates
go down, interest earned on fixed-income securities will tend to decline.          

B      
    Foreign securities pose additional risks that are not associated with U.S. domestic issues, such as changes in currency exchange rates and different
governmental regulations, economic conditions and accounting standards.          

C   
        Invests in growth
stocks, the prices of which may be more sensitive to changes in current or expected earnings than the prices of other stocks. Growth stocks may not perform as well as value stocks or the stock market in general.      

D   
        Lower rated high
yield, high risk securities generally involve more credit risk. These securities may also be subject to greater market price fluctuations than lower yielding, higher rated debt securities.      

E   
        Invests in the
common stock of large capitalization companies. These investments may not be able to attain the growth rates as high as those of successful smaller capitalization companies, especially during extended periods of economic expansion.

F   
        The common stocks
of medium-sized companies may be more volatile than those of larger, more established companies.          

G   
        Investments in
small capitalization and emerging growth companies involve greater than average risk. Such securities may have limited marketability and the issuers may have limited product lines, markets and financial resources. The value of such investments may
fluctuate more widely than investments in larger, more established companies.      
         12   

H      
    Invests in stocks that tend to trade at lower prices relative to their fundamental financial characteristics and are therefore considered undervalued.
Value stocks can perform differently than other categories of stocks (e.g., growth stocks) and can continue to be undervalued by the market for long periods of time.      
         13   

Total Return        Historic Fund   Index Performance by Calendar Year       As of
September 30, 2007      These figures are past performance and are not an indication of future performance. Note: Unit values fluctuate and
amounts received upon distribution may be more or less than deferrals. Current performance may be lower or higher than the performance figures quoted. More information regarding the performance of the investment tracking funds may be found at the
 Plan Information  link located on your participant account Home page at www.benefitplanservices.com/metlife.       

1      
    All performance shown for the MetLife SIP Fixed Income Fund and the MetLife SIP Small Company Stock Fund are net of investment management fees and
other expenses. Both funds have been available as tracking funds in the Plan since January 1, 1998. Returns in the MetLife SIP Fixed Income Fund are credited to participants  balances by crediting a daily interest factor that produces the
effective annual return that is declared for the fund. The effective annual interest rate for the MetLife SIP Fixed Income Fund is 5.15% effective January 1, 2007.      

2      
    The Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Fund (Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Portfolio of the Met Investors Series Trust, Class A shares) is a mutual fund
investment choice available under various variable insurance contracts issued by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and its affiliates. The Loomis Sayles High Yield Bond Portfolio of the Metropolitan Series Fund was merged into the Lord Abbett
Bond Debenture Portfolio after the close of business on April 26, 2002. Performance for the Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Portfolio includes performance of the Loomis Sayles High Yield Bond Portfolio prior to April 27, 2002, and performance
of the Lord Abbett Debenture Portfolio after April 26, 2002. All performance is shown net of the Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Portfolio s investment management fees and other expenses.      

3      
    The Oakmark Fund and the Oakmark International Fund are mutual funds. All performance is shown net of investment management fees and other expenses.
The Oakmark Fund and Oakmark International Fund have been available as tracking funds in the Plan since January 1, 1998.          
 
         14   

5      
    The Russell 2000 Index has been available as a tracking fund in the Plan since January 1, 2001. Returns on amounts that were formerly in the
Nasdaq tracking fund prior to March 1, 2007 are not reflected in the Russell 2000 Index returns          

6      
    The Nasdaq Composite Index was made available as tracking fund in the Plan since January 1, 2001 and was eliminated as a tracking fund at the
close of business on February 28, 2007. The  YTD  column reflects returns from December 31, 2006 through February 28, 2007. Investment-tracking on participants  accounts was done using the Total Return measure (the
percentage change in the unit prices, plus the impact of reinvested dividends) for all periods shown, except for 2004 returns which reflect the Total Return measure and for the 2003 return, which reflects the Price Return Measure. Total Return
information on the Nasdaq Composite Index was not available prior to 2004. Investment-tracking for periods prior to January 2005 was done using the Price Return measure (the percentage change in the unit price, without reinvested dividends).
The preceding sentence applies only to the MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors, which provided for deferral of compensation prior to January 2005; performance charts in the program descriptions for elections that were
offered under those plans reflected the Price Return measure.          

7      
    The MSCI EAFE Index and the MSCI Emerging Markets Index have been available as tracking funds in the Plan since January 1, 2001. The name of the
MSCI EMF Index tracking fund has been changed to MSCI Emerging Markets Index to reflect the corresponding change of name in this MSCI market index.          

8      
    Investment-tracking on participants  accounts will be done using the Total Return measure (the percentage change in the unit price, plus the
impact of reinvested dividends) for all funds, including the S P 500 Index, Russell 2000 Index, MSCI EAFE Index, and MSCI Emerging Markets Index tracking funds. Returns in this chart reflect the Total Return measure for all periods shown for all
funds. Investment-tracking for periods prior to January 2005 was done using the Price Return measure (the percentage change in the unit price, without reinvested dividends) for the S P 500 Index, Russell 2000 Index, MSCI EAFE Index, and
MSCI Emerging Markets Index tracking funds. The preceding sentence applies only to the MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors, which provided for deferral of compensation prior to January 2005; performance charts in the
program descriptions for elections that were offered under those plans reflected the Price Return measure.          

9      
    The Lehman Brothers Aggregate Bond Index (Lehman Brothers refers to this index as the Lehman Brothers U.S. Aggregate Index), and Merrill Lynch US High
Yield Master II Index have been available as tracking funds in the Plan since January 1, 2001.          

10      
    The MetLife Deferred Shares Fund has been available as a tracking fund since May 1, 2001. The Performance data is obtained from MetLife, Inc.
Returns reflect the MetLife stock price (MET), including reinvested dividends, as reported by MetLife, Inc.          

11      
    The MetLife Common Stock Fund was made available as a tracking fund for participants since November 2003. The Performance data is obtained from
MetLife, Inc. Returns reflect the MetLife stock price (MET), including reinvested dividends, as reported by MetLife, Inc.      
         15   

PROSPECTUS INFORMATION       In connection with the obligations of MetLife, Inc. under the Plan, the following constitute the prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended:

1.  
  The information set forth in this Program Description;     

2.  
  Any other written documents delivered to participants updating or revising the information in item 1 above. Those documents will contain a legend indicating that they
constitute a part of the prospectus covering the obligations being offered as permitted by the Plan;         

3.  
  Each of the following documents filed by MetLife, Inc. with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Commission ), which are incorporated by reference in
this prospectus:         

c)  
  All documents subsequently filed by MetLife, Inc. pursuant to Sections 13(a), 13(c), 14 and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, prior to the
filing of a post-effective amendment which indicates that all securities offered have been sold or which de-registers all securities then remaining unsold.        You may obtain a copy of the above filings described in items 1 and 2, at no cost, by calling BPSI at 1-800-340-8151. Filings described in item 3 and any other documents MetLife, Inc. provides to its
shareholders may be obtained, at no cost, at www.metlife.com (by clicking on Investor Relations) or by calling 1-800-649-3593. You may also request copies of any of the above documents by writing to the MetLife Corporate Secretary, 200 Park Avenue,
New York, NY 10166-0188.   
         16   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this MetLife Non-Management Director Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated
effective January 1, 2005, is approved.       
 
         Page 17

</EX-10.90>

<EX-10.95>
 21
 d450627dex1095.htm
 EX-10.95

EX-10.95 

Exhibit 10.95         METLIFE AUXILIARY PENSION PLAN        Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
( Company ) hereby amends and restates Part I of the MetLife Auxiliary Pension Plan ( Plan ) effective January 1, 2008.      Part I      To the extent that there is any conflict between Part I and
Part II of this Plan document, Part I contains the provisions of the Plan that govern 409A Benefits as defined in Article 4.1(a) of Part I. All references to  409A  or  section 409A  in this Plan are
references to section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ( Code ) and the regulations thereunder. Part II contains the provisions of the Plan (as in effect on October 3, 2004) that govern Grandfathered Benefits as defined in
Article 4.1(b) of Part I, if any, under the Plan.      Article 1.  Purpose of Plan .   
  The purpose of the Plan is to provide to certain participants employed by the employers (each an  Employer ) participating under the
Metropolitan Life Retirement Plan for United States Employees ( Retirement Plan ) and his/her beneficiaries, the excess amount that would have been payable under the Retirement Plan in the absence of the limitations under (i) section
415 of the Code, (ii) section 401(a)(17) of the Code, or such lesser limit as in effect under the Retirement Plan and (iii) section 1.415-2(d)(2) of the Income Tax Regulations, that excludes compensation deferred under the Company s
or an Employer s deferred compensation arrangements.      Except for terms defined in this Plan, all capitalized terms used in this Plan
shall have the same definition and meaning assigned to those terms under the Retirement Plan.      Article 2.  Participation  
     A Participant in the Plan is any Employee that is eligible under Section 2.1, 2.2 or 2.3 below:   
  2.1. An Employee of an Employer participating in the Retirement Plan:       

(a)  
  whose Retirement Plan benefits are reduced because of the application of section 401(a)(17) of the Code (or such lesser limit as in effect under the Retirement Plan),
or,         

(b)  
  whose Retirement Plan benefits are reduced because of the application of section 415 of the Code, including treasury regulation 1.415-2.     
         1   

shall be eligible to participate in the Plan as stated in all Articles except Section 4.6 of
Article 4 and Article 4A.      2.2.  PRA/PLS Benefit .  PRA/PLS Benefit  means a benefit that is either a Personal
Retirement Account benefit or a Performance Pension Account benefit under the Retirement Plan. Likewise, any benefit referred to as a  non PRA/PLS Benefit  or  not a PRA/PLS Benefit  refers to benefits under the Retirement Plan
that are not PRA/PLS Benefits.      An Employee of an Employer with a benefit that is not a PRA/PLS Benefit participating in the Retirement Plan
who:       

(a)  
  is in a compensation grade of 36 or higher (or an equivalent compensation grade), or,     

(b)  
  is a member of the Chairman s Council for 3 consecutive years, or,         

(c)  
  is listed in Appendix A, or,         

(d)  
  has been inducted into the Sales Representative Hall of Fame and has attained the age of 65     

shall  
  be eligible to participate in the Plan as stated in all Articles.        If an Employee is an eligible Participant in the Plan under Section 2.1 of this Article, and on or after January 1, 1995, he/she qualifies as a Participant under Section 2.2 of this
Article, then the portion of his/her benefit that is not a PRA/PLS Benefit that has accrued to that Employee shall be determined and payable as if the Employee was always eligible under Section 2.2 of this Article. If, after qualifying as a
Participant under Section 2.2 of this Article, an individual s compensation grade drops below level 36 (or its equivalent), or the individual ceases to qualify for the Chairman s Council, then that individual shall continue to be
treated as if he or she meets the requirements of Section 2.2 of this Article.      2.3. An Employee of an Employer participating in the
Retirement Plan:       

(a)  
  (i) who participated and accrued benefits in either of the following plans.:     

The New England Life Insurance Company Select Employee s Supplemental Retirement Plan, or      

New England Life Insurance Company Supplemental Retirement Plan, and,      

(ii)  
  who, on December 31, 2000, was actively employed by New England Life Insurance Company, the Company or an Employer,     
  shall be eligible, on January 1, 2001, to participate in this Plan, except Section 4.6 of Article 4 and Article 4A. Such individual
shall have his/her entire auxiliary defined benefit as defined in Article 4.2 (and including amounts previously accrued under the   
         2   

New England plans named above) paid under this Plan, in accordance with the terms of this Plan. Such
individual shall be eligible to participate in this Plan as stated in Section 4.6 of Article 4 and Article 4A if he/she qualifies as a Participant under Section 2.2 of this Article after December 31, 2000.   

(b)    (i)      
  who participated and accrued benefits in the GenAmerica Corporation Augmented Benefit Plan, (only insofar as it relates to benefits on compensation that exceeded the
limits imposed by or upon the GenAmerica Corporation Performance Pension Plan and Trust.) and,         

(ii)  
  who, on December 31, 2002, was actively employed by General American Life Insurance Company, the Company or an Employer,     
  shall be eligible, on January 1, 2003, to participate in this Plan, except Section 4.6 of Article 4 and Article 4A. Such individual
shall have his/her entire auxiliary defined benefit as defined in Section 4.2 (and including amounts previously accrued under the Augmented Benefit Plan) paid under this Plan, in accordance with the terms of this Plan. Such individual shall be
eligible to participate in Section 4.6 of Article 4 and Article 4A of this Plan if he/she qualifies as a Participant under Section 2.2 of this Article after December 31, 2002.   
  Article 3.  Vesting        A Participant
will vest in his/her accrued benefit, described in Article 4.2, under this Plan in accordance with the vesting schedule under the Retirement Plan.      Should a Change of Control occur, as defined in Article 8, all benefits accrued by a Participant under this Plan prior to the Change of Control, shall vest if, and when, the Participant satisfies the
vesting schedule that existed under the Retirement Plan immediately prior to the Change of Control, unless the accelerated vesting provisions in Article 8.2 apply.      Article 4.  Payment of Benefits        4.1. Definitions.   

(a)  
   409A Benefits .  409A Benefits  For individuals who are eligible under Section 2.2 on or before December 31, 2008,  409A Benefits 
means the portion of a Participant s vested benefit that accrues after December 31, 2004. For all other Participants in the Plan  409A Benefits  means his/her entire accrued benefit payable under this Plan.

(b)  
   Grandfathered Benefits .  Grandfathered Benefits  means the portion of a Participant s benefit vested and accrued prior to January 1, 2005
plus any other increases or amounts that can be included in the grandfathered benefit under Code section 409A and the regulations thereunder. Only an individual who:     
         3   

(ii)  
  is a Commissioned Employee, eligible under Section 2.2, who separated from service prior to January 1, 2005, or     

(iii)  
  is described in Section 4.7(c) and (d) of the Plan, or        will have  Grandfathered Benefits  under this Plan.       

(c)  
   Benefit Eligible / Benefit Eligibility .  Benefit Eligible  or  Benefit Eligibility  means the earliest date that benefits could commence
(using the age and service requirements) under the Retirement Plan.         

(d)  
   Commissioned Employee .  Commissioned Employee  shall have the same meaning as under the Retirement Plan, except that for the purposes of this Plan,
Commissioned Employee shall not include those individuals that are considered group commissioned under the Retirement Plan.         

4.2.  
  Benefits under this Plan shall be payable to a Participant in an amount equal to the difference, as determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion, between
(a) and (b) below:         

(a)  
  the largest amount (without duplication of amount) that would have been payable to the Participant under the Retirement Plan, had the Retirement Plan not been subject
to the limitations of Code sections: (i) 415, (ii) 401(a)(17) or such lesser limit as stated in the Retirement Plan, and (iii) Regulation section 1. 415-2(d)(2) (with respect to deferred compensation arrangements); and,

(b)  
  the amount of benefits payable under the Retirement Plan and any predecessor auxiliary plan.        4.3.  Distribution of 409A Benefits         

(a)  
  A Commissioned Employee, who is a Participant under Section 2.2 and has an election on file that complies with 409A, as determined by the Plan Administrator, that
specifies the time and form for distribution of benefits will have benefits distributed in the elected form on or as soon as administratively practicable after the later of:     

(i)  
  the date or age specified in the election or         

(ii)  
  attainment of Benefit Eligibility.        A Commissioned Employee who is not a Participant under Section 2.2 and has an election on file that complies with 409A, as determined by the Plan Administrator, that specifies the time and form for
distribution of benefits will have benefits distributed in the elected form on or as soon as administratively practicable after October 1   st    following the later of:       

(iii)  
  the date or age specified in the election or         

(iv)  
  attainment of Benefit Eligibility.     
         4   

In no event can any Participant s election specify an age or date
for payment that is earlier than age 55 or later than age 70. A Commissioned Employee who does not have an election on file that complies with 409A, will have benefits distributed to him/her on or as soon as administratively practicable after the
October 1   st    following the later of:   

(v)  
    the Participant s
60   th    birthday or the      

(vi)  
  Participant s attainment of Benefit Eligibility, in the following forms:     

(1)  
  PRA/PLS Benefits will be paid in a lump sum         

(2)  
  Benefits that are not PRA/PLS Benefits will be paid in the Normal Form of Payment under the Retirement Plan.     

(b)  
    A Commissioned Employee who does not have an election on file that complies with 409A by December 31, 2008 and who is age 60 or older as of
October 1, 2008 will have his/her benefits distributed in the default forms noted in (a)(vi)(1) and (2) above on or as soon as administratively practicable after the later of: October 1, 2009 or the October 1   st    after the attainment of Benefit Eligibility.

(c)  
  If a Commissioned Employee s benefit commences while he/she is on active payroll and still accruing a benefit under the Plan then every five years after the later
of: the initial date of benefit payment or the fifth anniversary of the last time the benefit was re-calculated ( Recalculation Date ), the Participant s benefit will be recalculated and any additional amounts due and owing to the
Participant, if any, in the discretion of the Plan Administrator, will be paid.         

(i)  
  To the extent that the Participant is receiving an annuity form of benefit, such recalculation will take into account age, service and accrued benefits as of the
Recalculation Date, offset by the value of any payments made to the Participant prior to the Recalculation Date.         

(ii)  
  To the extent that the Participant received a lump sum benefit payment, any additional amounts due to the Participant, will be offset by the value of any payments made
to the Participant prior to the Recalculation Date and paid in a lump sum immediately following the Recalculation Date.         

(iii)  
  To the extent that the Participant is receiving installment payments at the time he/she reaches his/her Recalculation Date, then any additional amounts due to the
Participant, will be offset by the value of any payments made to the Participant prior to the Recalculation date and will be equally divided among, and added to, the number of unpaid installments remaining as of the Recalculation Date. If all
installments have been paid by the Recalculation Date, then any additional amounts due to the     
         5   

Participant will be paid in a lump sum immediately following the
Recalculation Date.      To the extent that actuarial assumptions are necessary to recalculate the benefit, the assumptions used will be
designated by the Plan Administrator in the Plan s administrative procedures.       

(d)  
  An eligible Participant who is not a Commissioned Employee and who has an election on file that complies with 409A, as determined by the Plan Administrator, that
specifies the time and form for distribution of benefits, will have benefits distributed in the elected form on or as soon as administratively practicable after the later of:     

(i)  
  the date or age specified in the election or         

(ii)  
  attainment of Benefit Eligibility.        If such Participant does not have an election on file that complies with 409A, then the time/form of payment for the Participant s 409A Benefits will be as specified below:   

(iii)  
  PRA/PLS Benefits will be paid in a lump sum as soon as administratively practicable after separation from service.     

(iv)  
  Benefits that are not PRA/PLS Benefits will be paid in the Normal Form of Payment under the Retirement Plan commencing at the later of separation from service or
attainment of Benefit Eligibility.         

(e)  
  An alternate payee receiving benefits under the Plan through a Qualified Domestic Relations Order ( QDRO ) as defined under section 414 (p) of the Code,
will receive benefits in the time and form specified in the QDRO. At the discretion of the Plan Administrator, an alternate payee with a QDRO that does not specify the time or the form of their benefit payments may be provided the opportunity to
elect the time and/or form for payment of his/her benefit under the Plan. Such elections shall comply with the Plan s administrative procedures.        In no event will benefits be distributed under a QDRO at any time or in any form not allowed, in the sole discretion of the Plan Administrator, under the Plan or under the laws governing this Plan.
Alternate payees have the status of beneficiaries under this Plan.      4.4 Notwithstanding the default forms of payment listed in
Article 4.3 above:       

(a)  
  The Company intends all forms of payment to be treated as a single payment and a Participant with a benefit other than PRA/PLS Benefits will be able to elect, in
accordance with Code section 409A, as determined by the Plan Administrator, among actuarially equivalent annuity forms of benefit any time prior to the payment commencement date for such benefit.     
         6   

(b)  
     Specified Employees . Each Year the Plan must identify individuals who are  Specified Employees  as that term is defined under 409A and
the treasury regulations thereunder. The determination of who is a Specified Employee will be based on taxable compensation (as shown on Box 1 of each Participant s W-2) paid during the 12-month period ending September 30   th    of each calendar year. Therefore, September 30   th    of each year will serve as the Specified Employee identification
date for the Plan. The list of Specified Employees generated on September 30   th    of each year will be effective from January 1   st    through December 31   st    of each subsequent Plan year. Any Participant identified as a Specified Employee on the applicable identification date, whose benefit is payable due to separation from service or Retirement shall not
have his/her 409A Benefits commence under this Plan in any form until six months have elapsed since his/her separation or Retirement.         A Specified Employee receiving benefits in annual payments who has benefit commencement delayed under this provision will receive his/her first annual payment on the first of the month following the
expiration of the six month period described above, and subsequent annual payments will be made as originally scheduled . A Specified Employee receiving his/her benefits in monthly payments who has benefit commencement delayed under this provision
will receive seven months of payments on or about the first of the month following the expiration of the six month period described above. Subsequent individual monthly payments will follow on or about the first of each subsequent month.   

(c)  
   Redeferrals . To the extent a Commissioned Employee so elects, and consistent with the requirements of the Code (including but not limited to requirements for
redeferral under section 409A of the Code), the payment of benefits under the Plan can be delayed. Subsequent redeferrals will be allowed consistent with the requirements of the Code, and provided such redeferral elections are made on the form, and
in the manner, prescribed by the Plan Administrator. The redeferral elections described in this subsection shall be the only such elections permitted under the Plan and shall be irrevocable. In no event shall elections under this subsection operate
to allow a Participant with an age or date specific election, to commence benefit payments any later than age 70. A Participant may only change his/her form of benefit when making a redeferral election if he/she is changing the form of benefit to an
annuity form at the time the redeferral election is filed.        4.5.  Minimum Distribution . A Participant who commenced
minimum distributions of their benefit under this Plan on or before December 31, 2007, will continue to have such distributions calculated as provided under the Retirement Plan and paid to them in accordance with the existing schedule.
  
         7   

For all other Participants, payment of benefits under this Plan will not be affected by, or subject to,
minimum distributions as described under section 401(a)(9) of the Code and the treasury regulations thereunder.      4.6 Only for an individual
who is eligible under Section 2.2, Final Average Compensation used to determine the largest amount that would have been payable under Article 4.2(a) above, will be based on the following rules, notwithstanding the actual provisions of the
Retirement Plan.      For an eligible Participant that is not a Commissioned Employee Final Average Compensation will be the sum of (a) and
(b) below:       

(a)  
  The base salary component of the Participant s Final Average Compensation is determined using the average of the Participant s base salary for the 60 highest
consecutive months during the 120 months preceding the Participant s date of Retirement or termination, and,         

(b)  
  The component of the Participant s Final Average Compensation representing the MetLife Annual Variable Incentive Compensation Plan or successor annual cash bonus
plan or program ( AVIP ) award will be determined using the average of the Participant s highest 5 AVIP payments (not necessarily consecutive) with respect to the 10 AVIP payments preceding such Participant s date of Retirement
or termination (including any projected payment(s) to be made beyond the Participant s date of Retirement or termination calculated as provided immediately below).     
  The AVIP award, as set forth in subsection (b) immediately above, projected to be made beyond the Participant s date of
Retirement or termination will be deemed equal to the result of the following calculation, as determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion:       

(i)  
  the highest of the last 3 bonuses/awards paid while the Participant was in active Company service multiplied by     

(ii)  
  a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months (or part thereof) that the Participant was actively employed in the calendar year(s) for which the
bonus/award would be payable and the denominator of which is 12.         

(iii)  
  If the fraction determined under (ii) immediately above, is less than 1, then, the fractional amount determined under (ii) shall replace an equivalent
fractional amount in the lowest of the 5 highest AVIP payments used in (b) above. This replacement shall occur only if the fractional amount determined under (ii) is greater than the fractional amount it is replacing in the lowest of the 5
highest AVIP payments.        Notwithstanding (b)(i), (ii) and (iii), if a specific amount of bonus/award was already approved
under the AVIP, prior to the Participant s date of Retirement or termination,   
         8   

such amount shall be used instead of the deemed estimate, and such amount shall also be taken into account in determining the highest of the Participant s last 3 bonuses/awards with regard
to any bonus/award payable for the Participant s year of Retirement or termination.      If, at the time of Retirement or termination, fewer
than 5 AVIP payments have been made to a Participant, then the AVIP component of Final Average Compensation shall be the average of: all AVIP payments actually made to the Participant and the projected payment (described above) for the year of
Retirement or termination.      For an eligible Participant who is a Commissioned Employee Final Average Compensation will be the amount described
in appropriate provisions of the Retirement Plan.      4.7 Except as described in (a) through (e) immediately below, Grandfathered
Benefits shall be payable in the same form(s) and at the same times as benefits are payable under the Retirement Plan.       

(a)  
  Alternative Distributions under Article 4A shall be paid in the form, and at the time stated in the election form completed by the Participant and approved by the
Committee.         

(b)  
  Pre-Distribution Death Benefits as described in Article 4A.5 shall be paid in accordance with the terms of that Article.     

(c)  
  An individual who:         

(i)  
  had accrued benefits under the New England Life Insurance Company s non-qualified Plans listed in Section 2.3,     

(iii)  
  did not become an Employee of the Company or an Employer upon that termination of employment,        will have his/her benefits paid from this Plan in the amounts, at the times and in the form provided for under the provisions of those prior plans.   

(d)  
  An individual who:         

(i)  
  had accrued benefits under the GenAmerica Corporation Augmented Benefit Plan,     

(iii)  
  did not become an Employee of the Company or an Employer upon that termination of employment,        will have his/her entire auxiliary defined benefit paid from this Plan in the amounts, at the times, and in the form provided for under the provisions of that prior plan.   
         9   

(e)  
  an individual described in Section 2.3 shall have his/her entire auxiliary defined benefit (including amounts previously accrued under the plans named in
Section 2.3) paid under this Plan, in accordance with the terms of this Plan.        4.8 Notwithstanding any provision to the
contrary, the payment of benefits under this Plan shall not be affected by, or be subject to, the qualified pre-retirement survivor annuity and qualified joint and survivor annuity rules under the Retirement Equity Act of 1984.   
  Article 4A.  Alternative Distribution        Alternative forms of distribution are available to those individuals who are eligible Participants under Section 2.2 herein on or before December 31, 2008. The ability to elect an Alternative
form of distribution may, in the discretion of the Plan Administrator, be granted to Participants who do not qualify under Section 2.2 of the Plan, but who, as of December 31, 2008, have a PRA benefit and meet any of the requirements in
(a) through (d) of Section 2.2 of the Plan. Alternative forms of distribution may be elected by eligible Participants on or before December 31, 2008 and may apply to his/her 409A benefit as allowed under the transition relief
provided under 409A. After December 31, 2008, alternative forms of distribution can only be elected by an eligible Participant under Section 2.2 herein for his/her Grandfathered Benefits.   
  4A.1 Definitions       

(a)  
   Alternative Distribution .  Alternative Distribution  means one of the following modes of payment:     

(i)  
   Single Sum : Payment in a single sum.         

(ii)  
   Installment Payments for a Specific Period:  Monthly or annual payments are made to the Participant for a specified number of years selected (not exceeding 20
years). If the Participant dies before the expiration of the specified period, installment payments will continue to be made for the remainder of the period chosen by the Participant to a beneficiary designated by the Participant.

(iii)  
   Other Distribution : Any other form of payment that is mutually agreed upon by the Participant and the Committee.     

(b)  
   Committee .  Committee  means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company. The Committee, or either component thereof, may
delegate any of its powers or authority under this Plan in any manner consistent with law.         

(c)  
   Election Date.   Election Date  means the date on which the Participant files his/her request for an Alternative Distribution. For Participants who are
Benefit Eligible     
         10   

when they separate from service with the Company or an Employer, this date can be no later than the day before the Participant s Retirement or termination date. For Participants who are not
Benefit Eligible when they separate from service with the Company or an Employer, this date can be no later than 12 months before the Distribution Date.     

(d)  
   Distribution Date.   Distribution Date  means the date distributions commence under the mode of payment elected by the Participant. For Participants who
are Benefit Eligible when they separate from service with the Company or an Employer, this date cannot be earlier than the Participant s Retirement or termination date. For Participants who are not Benefit Eligible when they separate from
service with the Company or an Employer, this date cannot be earlier than the later of:         

(i)  
  12 months following the Participant s Election Date, and         

(ii)  
  attaining Benefit Eligibility.        4A.2.
 Payment in the Form of an Alternative Distribution.        In order to receive an Alternative Distribution: (i) a request form must be
duly filed by the Participant in compliance with both the provisions of this Article 4A and the procedures as set forth from time to time by the Committee, (ii) consent thereto must be given by the Committee, and (iii) payment in the
form of an Alternative Distribution must be made pursuant to a request form that satisfies 409A and the regulations thereunder.      4A.3.
 Election of Alternative Distribution.        A form requesting that 409A Benefits be paid in the form of an Alternative Distribution must be
consistent with the requirements of Code section 409A, as determined by the Plan Administrator and must be submitted by the Participant to the Committee no later than December 31, 2008.      A form requesting that Grandfathered Benefits under this Plan be paid in the form of an Alternative Distribution must be made in accordance with the requirements of this paragraph. The form must be
submitted by the Participant to the Committee no later than the day before the Participant s Retirement date. For Participants who are separating from service with the Company or an Employer before they are Benefit Eligible, the form requesting
an Alternative Distribution must be submitted by the Participant to the Committee no later than 12 months before the Distribution Date indicated on the election form. All requests must be in writing, signed by the Participant, and follow the
format prescribed by the Committee. On the request form the Participant must also designate (i) the mode of payment requested and (ii) the Participant s Retirement or Distribution Date. A request form shall be deemed submitted by the
Participant to the Committee on the day that such form is received by the Committee. Prior to the Participant s Retirement date, the request form can be revoked by the Participant. Any revocation must be in writing and comply with the
procedures of the Committee. A request form   
         11   

submitted by the Participant shall become irrevocable and binding as to all elections and designations made by the Participant as of the Retirement date. In the event that a Participant s
request form is not filed before his/her Retirement date, the Participant s Plan benefits will be paid in the same form as the benefits paid to the Participant under the Retirement Plan. For Participants who separate from service before they
are Benefit Eligible, the request form shall become irrevocable and binding, as to all elections and designations, 12 months before the Distribution Date.      4A.4.  Consent of the Committee.        Payment in the form of an Alternative Distribution shall
require the consent of the Committee. The Committee shall have full and complete discretion to approve or reject any request for an Alternative Distribution. The decision of the Committee on the Participant s request form shall be made known to
the Participant in writing.      4A.5.  Death of Participant Before Distribution Date .   

(a)  
  A Participant under Section 2.2, who accrued vested Plan benefits other than PRA/PLS Benefits before death, shall have 50% of the present value of his/her
undistributed non PRA/PLS Benefit, (valued as a single sum under Section 4A.6(a) below and actuarially adjusted for payment at the Participant s earliest Retirement date or the day prior to death, if the Participant was Benefit Eligible at
death), paid to his/her designated beneficiary. This pre-distribution death benefit will be payable in the form designated by the Participant and approved by the Committee.     
  A Participant may file with the Committee a form (which will become irrevocable only upon death) designating a beneficiary or changing
his/her existing designation. This form will also allow the Participant to choose the form in which the pre-distribution death benefit will be paid. All optional forms of benefit available to the Participant under this Plan and the Retirement Plan
will be available for payment of this death benefit.       

(b)  
  For an eligible Participant that is not a Commissioned Employee covered under Section 2.2, a single sum, equivalent to the full value of a Participant s
undistributed non PRA/PLS Benefit on the date of the Participant s death, (valued under Section 4A.6(a)), shall be paid to the Participant s designated beneficiary if:     

(i)  
  the Participant notifies the Committee in a request form in effect on the Election Date of his or her anticipated Retirement date,     

(ii)  
  the Committee gives its consent to the payment of a Single Sum or Installment Payments for a Specific Period before the Distribution Date is reached,

(iii)  
  the Participant agrees to defer Retirement at the Company s written request,     
         12   

(iv)  
  the Distribution Date for payment of the Single Sum or Installment Payments for a Specific Period is deferred to the Participant s Retirement date, and

(v)  
  the Participant dies after such anticipated Retirement date but before Retirement.        In the absence of a designation by the Participant, the death benefit, under (a) or (b) immediately above, shall be paid to the Participant s surviving spouse in a single sum. If the
Participant has no surviving spouse at the time of death, then the death benefit shall be paid to the Participant s estate.      4A.6.
 Valuation of Alternative Benefit         

(a)  
  The actuarial equivalent value of the Single Sum shall be determined using the UP 84 Mortality Table, set forward one year for the Participant and set back four years
for the Participant s spouse, (if applicable). If the Participant is Benefit Eligible at separation from service, then the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation immediate interest rate ( PBGC Rate ) used to calculate the Single Sum
shall be the lowest rate in effect in the 12 months prior to the Participant s actual Retirement date If the Participant was not Benefit Eligible on December 31, 2004, then the PBGC Rate used to calculate the Single Sum shall be the
rate in effect in the month prior to the later of:         

(i)  
  the Participant s earliest Retirement date or         

(ii)  
  the Participant s actual Retirement date.         

(b)  
  The actuarial equivalent benefit amount for the Installment Payments for a Specific Period will be determined by converting the Single Sum benefit amount, determined
under Article 4A.6(a). The interest rate basis for the immediate annuity purchase rates offered under the Metropolitan Savings and Investment Plan ( SIP Rate ) and its successors utilized in the calculation of installment payments will be
as follows:         

(i)  
  If the Participant was Benefit Eligible on December 31, 2004, the SIP Rate is the highest rate in the month that had the lowest PBGC Rate out of the 12 months
prior to the Participant s actual Retirement date.         

(ii)  
  If the Participant was not Benefit Eligible on December 31, 2004, the SIP Rate is the rate in effect on the last day of the month prior to the later of:

a.  
  the Participant s earliest Retirement date, or         

b.  
  the Participant s actual Retirement date.     
  4A.7.  Interest on Deferred Installments     
  A Benefit Eligible individual who elects to defer benefit payments under the terms of this Article 4A, shall receive interest from the date he/she
separates from service to the date that benefit payments commence. Interest will be calculated based on the entire amount that the Participant has deferred. Interest will be credited using the SIP Rate in effect on the Election Date and will be
compounded annually from the date of separation from   
         13   

service to the date payments commence. The interest accrued prior to payment commencement will be added to the accrued Plan benefit to produce a total benefit amount. This total benefit amount
will be credited with the SIP Rate for the duration of the payment(s) and divided by the number of installment payments, if any, due under the Participant s election to produce uniform payments under the Plan. This interest will be part of the
Participant s 409A Benefit and will be paid in accordance with 409A.      4A.8.  Power of Committee.     
  The Committee shall have the discretionary power to make any and all administrative decisions regarding the election and payment of an Alternative
Distribution, including but not limited to, (i) the design and format of request forms, (ii) the approval or rejection of requests for an Alternative Distribution, (iii) the design and format of revocation forms and (iv) the
sending of notices.      Article 5.  Unfunded Plan .      The Plan is completely unfunded. Except as obligations under this Plan have been undertaken pursuant to plans or other arrangements offered by another company, obligations under this Plan are obligations
of the Company. All obligations under this Plan are entirely separate from the Retirement Plan and any other plan. Participation in this Plan gives a Participant no right to any funds or assets of the Retirement Plan, or any other plan. The fact
that contracts or certificates may be distributed to recipients of benefits under the Retirement Plan in discharge of obligations thereunder shall in no way entitle a Participant in this Plan to receive any such contract or certificate in discharge
of obligations under this Plan.      Article 6.  Non-transferability of Participant s Interest     
  With the exception of a valid court order determined by the Plan Administrator to be a QDRO, no Participant shall have any power or right to transfer,
assign, mortgage, commute or otherwise encumber any of the Plan benefits payable hereunder, nor shall such benefits be subject to seizure for the payment of any debts or judgments, or be transferable by operation of law in the event of bankruptcy,
insolvency or otherwise.      Article 7.  Effect of Taxes        Payments under this Plan shall be made after withholding of any Federal, state or local income, employment or other taxes, legally obligated to be withheld. All tax liabilities arising out of benefits
under this Plan are the sole obligation of the Plan Participant(s) or his/her beneficiary, including but not limited to, any tax liabilities that may arise under section 409A. In the event that a Participant or beneficiary incurs greater tax burdens
from payments under this Plan (whether income, employment, estate or other tax burdens) than they would if such payments had been made from the Retirement Plan, neither the Company nor any other person shall have an obligation to reimburse the
Participant or beneficiary for such greater tax burdens.   
         14   

Article 8.  Change of Control        8.1.  Definitions .       

(a)  
   Change of Control . For the purposes of this Plan, a  Change of Control  shall be deemed to have occurred if:     

(i)  
  any Person acquires  beneficial ownership  (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange
Act )), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Corporation representing 25% or more of the combined Voting Power of the Corporation s securities;     

(ii)  
  within any 24-month period, the persons who were directors of the Corporation at the beginning of such period (the  Incumbent Directors ) shall cease to
constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the  Board ) or the board of directors of any successor to the Corporation;  provided ,  however ,  that  any director elected or nominated for
election to the Board by a majority of the Incumbent Directors then still in office shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director for purposes of this Section 8.1(a)(ii);     

(iii)  
  the stockholders of the Corporation approve a merger, consolidation, share exchange, division, sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of
the Corporation which is consummated (a  Corporate Event ), and immediately following the consummation of which the stockholders of the Corporation immediately prior to such Corporate Event do not hold, directly or indirectly, a majority
of the Voting Power of (A) in the case of a merger or consolidation, the surviving or resulting corporation, (B) in the case of a share exchange, the acquiring corporation, or (C) in the case of a division or a sale or other
disposition of assets, each surviving, resulting or acquiring corporation which, immediately following the relevant Corporate Event, holds more than 25% of the consolidated assets of the Corporation immediately prior to such Corporate Event; or

(iv)  
  any other event occurs which the Board declares to be a Change of Control.     

(b)  
   Corporation . For the Purposes of this Article,  Corporation  means MetLife, Inc.     

(c)  
   Person . For purposes of the definition of Change of Control,  Person  shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange
Act, as supplemented by section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, and shall include any group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b) under the Exchange Act);  provided ,  however ,  that   Person  shall not include (A) the
Corporation or any Affiliate, (B) the MetLife Policyholder Trust (or any person(s) who would otherwise be described herein solely by reason of having the power to control the voting of the shares held by that trust), or (C) any employee
benefit plan (including an employee stock ownership plan) sponsored by the Corporation, Company or any Affiliate.     
         15   

(d)  
   Voting Power . For purposes of the definition of Change of Control,  Voting Power  shall mean such number of Voting Securities as shall enable the
holders thereof to cast all the votes which could be cast in an annual election of directors of a company, and  Voting Securities  shall mean all securities entitling the holders thereof to vote in an annual election of directors of a
company.         

(e)  
   Affiliate . For the purposes of this article, an  Affiliate  shall mean any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust or other entity
which directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, the Corporation.         

(f)  
   Cause . For the purposes of this article,  Cause  means either:     

(i)  
  the Participant s conviction or plea of nolo contendere to a felony, or,     

(ii)  
  any act or acts of dishonesty or gross misconduct on the Participant s part which results or is intended to result in material damage to the business or reputation
of the Company.         

(g)  
   Good Reason . For the purposes of this article,  Good Reason  means any of:     

(i)  
  any reduction by the Corporation or an Affiliate in the Participant s base salary rate below the rate in effect immediately before the Change of Control;

(ii)  
  any relocation by the Corporation or an Affiliate of the Participant s usual base work location to any other office or location more than 50 miles from the
Participant s usual base work location immediately prior to a Change of Control, or in a state other than the one in which the Participant performed his or her duties immediately prior to the Change of Control, in each case except for travel
reasonably required in the performance of the Participant s responsibilities;         

(iii)  
  if the Participant is a party to an Employment Continuation Agreement with the Corporation or an Affiliate, any circumstance or occurrence constituting  Good
Reason  under that Employment Continuation Agreement;         

(iv)  
  the failure of the Corporation or an Affiliate to pay the Employee s base salary or employee benefits as required by law.     
  8.2.  Vesting and Other Rights on and After a Change of Control Subject to Conditions        In the event that:       

(a)  
  there is a Change of Control as defined in Section 8.1(a) of this Article, and,     

(b)  
  on the date of the Change of Control or on a date before the second anniversary of the Change of Control, a Participant in this Plan:     

(i)  
  is involuntarily terminated from employment by the Corporation or any Affiliate (other than directly in connection with a transfer of employment to or from the
Corporation or any Affiliate) without Cause,     
         16   

(ii)   voluntarily terminates employment with the Corporation or any Affiliate for
Good Reason,      then the Participant s unvested benefits and rights accrued as of the Change of Control in each, the Retirement Plan and
this Plan, will vest immediately under this Plan, notwithstanding any other provision of the Retirement Plan or this Plan, or any amendment or termination of this Plan taking place on or after a Change of Control.   
  These accrued benefits will be paid under this Plan according to the ordinary distribution rules of this Plan. The ordinary distribution
rules of this Plan are described in Article 4 and where applicable, Article 4A as they existed immediately prior to the Change of Control. If this Section 8.2 is triggered, a Participant under Section 2.2 does not have to obtain
Committee approval for an Alternate Distribution in the form of a Single Sum or Installment Payments for a Specific Period, to the extent that an Alternative Distribution is available to that Participant under 409A.   
  Article 9.  Interpretation of the Plan         

(a)  
  The Committee is empowered to take all actions it deems appropriate in administering this Plan. Any Committee determination with respect to the meaning or application
of the provisions of the Plan shall be binding and conclusive. Benefits will be paid under this Plan only if the Committee determines in its discretion that the applicant is entitled to them. Once a Change of Control (as defined in Article 8)
has occurred, this subpart (a) of Article 9 shall no longer apply.         

(b)  
  Claims for benefits and appeals of denied claims under the Plan shall be administered in accordance with section 503 of ERISA, the regulations thereunder (and any other
law that amends, supplements or supersedes said section of ERISA), and the procedures adopted by the Committee, as appropriate. The claims procedures referenced above are incorporated herein by reference.     
  Article 10.  Governing Law        To the
extent not inconsistent with Federal law, the validity of the Plan and its provisions shall be construed according to the laws of the State of New York.      Article 11.  Amendment and Termination of Plan        11.1. Except to the extent prohibited
by law, the Committee may amend or terminate this Plan at any time without the consent of any Participant or of any other person. However, any such amendment or termination will not adversely affect the benefit entitlements of:   

(a)  
  any Participant receiving benefits under this Plan at or prior to the time of such amendment or termination, or,     
         17   

(b)  
  any Employee who is a Participant in the Retirement Plan to the extent of the present value of his/her accrued benefit under this Plan prior to the time of such
amendment or termination.        However, amendments may be made to all other aspects of this Plan consistent with section 409A,
including, but not limited to:       

(i)  
  amendments impacting the timing under which the Participant s entire accrued benefit is paid, or,     

(ii)  
  amendments impacting the optional forms of benefit available for payment of the Participant s entire accrued benefit.     
  Notwithstanding the above, any amendment or group of amendments made effective on the same date, which would increase or decrease the annual cost of Plan
benefits for active Plan Participants and former Plan Participants by ten million dollars or more in the aggregate, as determined in good faith by the Committee, shall be effective only if authorized or ratified by the Board of Directors of the
Company.      11.2.       

(a)  
  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 11.1 above, or any other provision of this Plan, on or after a Change of Control (as defined in Article 8), no
amendments can be made to Article 8, Article 9 or Section 11.2 of Article 11 of this Plan; and         

(b)  
  Participants who:         

(i)  
  accrued rights or benefits under this Plan prior to a Change of Control (as defined in Article 8), and,     

(ii)  
  whose rights or benefits are not vested at the time of the Change of Control        cannot have the vesting schedule under Article 3, applicable on the day prior to the Change of Control, amended with regard to such rights or benefits. The Company may not wrongfully deny
Participants the opportunity to vest in rights or benefits accrued prior to a Change of Control under this Plan.       

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY   

Date:  
     
    December 21, 2007    

By:  
     
    /s/ Margery Brittain    
 
         18   

</EX-10.95>

<EX-10.101>
 22
 d450627dex10101.htm
 EX-10.101

EX-10.101 

Exhibit 10.101       AMENDMENT NUMBER SIX TO THE      METLIFE AUXILIARY PENSION PLAN   
  (As amended and restated effective January 1, 2008)      The MetLife Auxiliary Pension Plan is hereby amended, effective January 1, 2012, as follows:       

1.  
  Part I Article 1 is hereby amended to read as follows:         The purpose of the Plan is to provide to certain participants employed by the Company, and other employers (each an  Employer ) participating under the Metropolitan Life Retirement Plan
for United States Employees ( Retirement Plan ) and his/her beneficiaries, the excess amount that would have been payable under the Retirement Plan in the absence of the limitations under (i) section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 (as amended) ( Internal Revenue Code ), (ii) section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code, or such lesser limit as in effect under the Retirement Plan and (iii) or (iii) section 1.415(c)-2(c) of the Income Tax
Regulations  Regulation(s) , that excludes compensation deferred under the Company s or an Employer s deferred compensation arrangements.      Except for terms defined in this Plan, all capitalized terms used in this Plan shall have the same definition and meaning assigned to those terms under the Retirement Plan.    

2.  
  Part I, Article 2, Section 2.1, subsection (b) is hereby amended to read as follows:     

(b)  
  whose Retirement Plan benefits are reduced because of the application of section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code, including Regulation section 1.415(c)-2(c). 

3.  
  Part I, Article 4, Section 4.2, subsection (a) subpart (iii) is hereby amended to read as follows:     
   (iii) Regulation section 1.415(c)-2(c) (with respect to deferred compensation arrangements); and,    

4.  
  Part I, Article 7, is hereby amended to read as follows:         The Company shall have the ability to withhold any tax amounts (whether income, employment, estate or other tax) it determines, in its discretion, is due and owing from the Participant to the
Company, whether the tax obligation arose on account of the benefit under this Plan or arose due to other wages or amounts payable by the Company to the Participant. If, however, tax is determined, in the discretion of the Company and in accordance
with any process the Plan Administrator approves for the determination and collection of taxes, to be due and owing from the Participant, at a time other than when amounts are due to be paid from this Plan, then the Company will have the discretion
to reduce the accrued benefit or account balance of the Participant in this Plan by the amount of any tax that it determines is due and owing.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Amendment to be adopted in its name and behalf this 20   th    day of December, 2012, by its officer thereunto duly authorized.   

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY,  

By:   
     
  /s/ Andrew Bernstein   

Andrew Bernstein, Plan Administrator   
 
  ATTEST:     
     
    /s/ Anne Browne   

1   

</EX-10.101>

<EX-10.112>
 23
 d450627dex10112.htm
 EX-10.112

EX-10.112 

Exhibit 10.112        AMENDMENT NUMBER FIVE TO         THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE
FOR OFFICERS        ( Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2010 )   
  THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS (the  Plan ) is hereby amended, effective January 1, 2012, as
follows:       

1.  
  Section 1.4.05(d) of the Plan is hereby amended by adding the following new subsection (5) after subsection (4) to read as follows:
        (5) Appendix A of the MetLife Bank Enhanced Severance and Retention Plan for Servicing Employees at Salary
Grades 29 and Above        

2.  
  Section 4.3 of the Plan is hereby amended by deleting the phrase  provided that the Participant has granted a Separation Agreement  at the end of the
first sentence therein.         

3.  
  Section 5.1 of the Plan is hereby amended by adding the phrase  Except for those participating in the plans set forth in Section 1.4.05(d),  at the
beginning of the second sentence thereof.        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company has caused
this amendment to be executed by an officer thereunto duly authorized on the date noted below the officer s signature.       

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY    

By:  
     
  /s/ Mark Davis    

Name/Title:  
     
    Mark Davis Vice President/     Plan Administrator     

Witness:  
     
  /s/ Andrew Bernstein   

</EX-10.112>

<EX-12.1>
 24
 d450627dex121.htm
 EX-12.1

EX-12.1 

Exhibit 12.1        MetLife, Inc.        Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges    

(1)  
  Earnings were insufficient to cover fixed charges at a 1:1 ratio by $3,145 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to increased derivatives
losses on freestanding derivatives, partially offset by gains on embedded derivatives.     

(3)  
  For the year ended December 31, 2011, preferred stock dividends includes the redemption premium of $211 million associated with the convertible preferred stock
repurchased and canceled in March 2011.     
         1   

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 25
 d450627dex211.htm
 EX-21.1

EX-21.1 

Exhibit 21.1        METLIFE, INC.       As of December 31, 2012   
   Wholly-Owned Active
Subsidiaries  1        

1.      23   RD    STREET INVESTMENTS, INC. (DE)    
 
    2.      85 BROAD STREET LLC (DE)    
 
    3.      85 BROAD STREET MEZZANINE LLC (DE)    
 
    4.      334 MADISON EURO INVESTMENTS, INC. (DE)    
 
    5.      465 N. PARK DRIVE, LLC (DE)    
 
    6.      500 GRANT STREET ASSOCIATES LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (CT)    
 
    7.      500 GRANT STREET GP LLC (DE)    
 
    8.      1201 TAB MANAGER, LLC (DE)    
 
    9.      1320 GP LLC (DE)    
 
    10.    1320 OWNER LP (DE)    
 
    11.    1320 VENTURE LLC (DE)    
 
    12.    10420 MCKINLEY PARTNERS, LP(DE)    
 
    13.    AGENVITA S.R.L.(ITALY)    
 
    14.    AHICO FIRST AMERICAN HUNGARIAN INSURANCE COMPANY (ELSO AMERIKAI-MAGYAR BIZTOSITO) ZRT.
(HUNGARY)    
 
    15.    ALICO ASIGURARI ROMANIA S.A. (ROMANIA)    
 
    16.    ALICO ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP. (JAPAN)    
 
    17.    ALICO COMPANIA de SEGUROS de RETIRO, S.A.(ARGENTINA)    
 
    18.    ALICO COMPANIA de SEGUROS, S.A. (ARGENTINA)    
 
    19.    ALICO EUROPEAN HOLDINGS LIMITED (IRELAND)    
 
    20.    ALICO FUNDS CENTRAL EUROPE SPRAV. SPOL., A.S.(SLOVAKIA)    
 
    21.    ALICO GESTORA de FONDOS y PLANOS de PENSIONES S.A. (SPAIN)    
 
    22.    ALICO HELLAS SINGLE MEMBER LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY (GREECE)    
 
    23.    ALICO LIMITED(NIGERIA)    
 
    24.    ALICO MANAGEMENT SERVICES LIMITED (UK)    
 
    25.    ALICO MEXICO COMPANIA de SEGUROS de VIDA, S.A. de C.V.(MEXICO)    
 
    26.    ALICO OPERATIONS, INC. (US)    
 
    27.    ALICO SERVICES CENTRAL EUROPE S.R.O.(SLOVAKIA)    
 
    28.    ALICO SOCIETATE de ADMINISTRARE a UNUI FOND de PENSII ADMINISTRAT PRIVAT S.A.
(ROMANIA)    
 
    29.    ALICO TRUSTEES LTD. (UK)    
 
    30.    ALICO ZHIVOTOZASTRAHOVAT ELNO DRUZESTVO EAD (BULGARIA)    
 
    31.    ALPHA PROPERTIES, INC. (US)    
 
    32.    ALTERNATIVE FUEL I, LLC (DE)    
 
    33.    AMCICO POJISTOVNA A.S. (CZECH REPUBLIC)    

1      
  Does not include real estate joint ventures and partnerships of which MetLife, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries is an investment partner.     

34.    AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (DE)    
 
    35.    AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (CYPRUS)LIMITED (CYPRUS)    
 
    36.    AMERICAN LIFE LIMITED(NIGERIA)    
 
    37.    AMPLICO LIFE-FIRST AMERICAN POLISH LIFE INSURANCE   REINSURANCE COMPANY,
S.A.(POLAND)    
 
    38.    AMPLICO POWSZECHNE TOWARTZYSTWO (POLAND)    
 
    39.    AMPLICO SERVICES SP Z.O.O.(POLAND)    
 
    40.    AMPLICO TOWARTZYSTWO FUNDUSZKY INWESTYCYJNYCH S.A. (POLAND)    
 
    41.    ARDREY KELL TOWNHOMES, LLC (DE)    
 
    42.    ASHTON SOUTHEND GP, LLC (DE)    
 
    43.    BEST MARKET S.A. (ARGENTINA)    
 
    44.    BETA PROPERTIES, INC. (DE)    
 
    45.    BORDERLAND INVESTMENT LIMITED (DE)    
 
    46.    BOULEVARD RESIDENTIAL, LLC (DE)    
 
    47.    CC HOLDCO MANAGER, LLC (DE)    
 
    48.    CITYPOINT HOLDINGS II LIMITED (UK)    
 
    49.    CML COLUMBIA PARK FUND I LLC (DE)    
 
    50.    COMMUNICATION ONE KABUSHIKI KAISHA (JAPAN)    
 
    51.    COMPANIA PREVISIONAL METLIFE S.A. (BRAZIL)    
 
    52.    CONVENT STATION EURO INVESTMENTS FOUR COMPANY (UK)    
 
    53.    CORPORATE REAL ESTATE HOLDINGS, LLC (DE)    
 
    54.    CORRIGAN TLP LLC (DE)    
 
    55.    COVA LIFE MANAGEMENT COMPANY (DE)    
 
    56.    CRB CO., INC. (MA)    
 
    57.    DELAWARE AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (DE)    
 
    58.    DELTA PROPERTIES JAPAN, INC. (DE)    
 
    59.    ECONOMY FIRE   CASUALTY COMPANY (IL)    
 
    60.    ECONOMY PREFERRED INSURANCE COMPANY (IL)    
 
    61.    ECONOMY PREMIER ASSURANCE COMPANY (IL)    
 
    62.    EL CONQUISTADOR MAH II LLC (DE)    
 
    63.    ENTERPRISE GENERAL INSURANCE AGENCY, INC. (DE)    
 
    64.    ENTRECAP REAL ESTATE II LLC (DE)    
 
    65.    EPSILON PROPERTIES JAPAN, INC. (DE)    
 
    66.    EURO CL INVESTMENTS, LLC (DE)    
 
    67.    EURO TI INVESTMENTS LLC (DE)    
 
    68.    EURO TL INVESTMENTS LLC (DE)    
 
    69.    EXETER REASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD. (CAYMAN ISLANDS)    
 
    70.    FEDERAL FLOOD CERTIFICATION LLC (TX)    
 
    71.    FINANCIAL LEARNING KABUSHIKI KAISHA (JAPAN)    
 
    72.    FIRST HUNGARIAN-AMERICAN INSURANCE AGENCY LIMITED (HUNGARY)    
 
    73.    FIRST METLIFE INVESTORS INSURANCE COMPANY (NY)    
 
    74.    FUNDACION METLIFE MEXICO, A.C. (MEXICO)    
 
    75.    GALIC HOLDINGS LLC (DE)    
 
    76.    GBN,LLC (DE)    
 
    77.    GENERAL AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (MO)    
 
    78.    GLOBAL PROPERTIES, INC. (DE)    
 
    79.    GREATER SANDHILL I, LLC (DE)    

80.    GREENWICH STREET CAPITAL OFFSHORE FUND, LTD (VIRGIN ISLANDS)    
 
    81.    GREENWICH STREET INVESTMENTS, L.L.C. (DE)    
 
    82.    GREENWICH STREET INVESTMENTS, L.P. (DE)    
 
    83.    HEADLAND PROPERTIES ASSOCIATES (CA)    
 
    84.    HEADLAND-PACIFIC PALISADES, LLC (CA)    
 
    85.    HOUSING FUND MANAGER, LLC (DE)    
 
    86.    HPZ ASSETS LLC (DE)    
 
    87.    HYATT LEGAL PLANS OF FLORIDA, INC. (FL)    
 
    88.    HYATT LEGAL PLANS, INC. (DE)    
 
    89.    INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENT HOLDING COMPANY LIMITED (RUSSIA)    
 
    90.    INTERNATIONAL TECHNICAL AND ADVISORY SERVICES LIMITED (DE)    
 
    91.    INVERSIONES METLIFE HOLDCO DOS LIMITADA (Chile)    
 
    92.    IRIS PROPERTIES, INC. (DE)    
 
    93.    KAPPA PROPERTIES JAPAN, INC. (DE)    
 
    94.    LEGALGROUP S.A. (CHILE)    
 
    95.    LEGAL CHILE S.A.(CHILE)    
 
    96.    MET P C MANAGING GENERAL AGENCY, INC. (TX)    
 
    97.    MET II OFFICE LLC (FL)    
 
    98.    MET II OFFICE MEZZANINE, LLC (FL)    
 
    99.    MET1 SIEFORE, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO)    
 
    100. MET2 SIEFORE, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO)    
 
    101. MET3 SIEFORE BASICA, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO)    
 
    102. MET4 SIEFORE, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO)    
 
    103. MET5 SIEFORE, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO)    
 
    104. META SIEFORE ADICIONAL, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO)    
 
    105. METCANADA INVESTMENTS LTD. (CANADA)    
 
    106. METLIFE 1201 TAB MEMBER, LLC (DE)    
 
    107. METLIFE ADMINISTRADORA DE FUNDOS MULTIPATROCINADOS LTDA. (BRAZIL)    
 
    108. METLIFE ADVISERS, LLC (MA)    
 
    109. METLIFE AFORE, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO)    
 
    110. METLIFE AKCIONARSKA DRUSTVOZA za ZIVOTNO OSIGURANJE (SERBIA)    
 
    111. METLIFE ALICO LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY S.A. (GREECE)    
 
    112. METLIFE ALICO LIFE INSURANCE K.K. (JAPAN)    
 
    113. METLIFE AMSLICO POIST OVNA A.S.(SLOVAKIA)    
 
    114. METLIFE ASIA PACIFIC LIMITED (HONG KONG)    
 
    115. METLIFE ASSOCIATES LLC (DE)    
 
    116. METLIFE ASSURANCE LIMITED (UK)    
 
    117. METLIFE AUTO   HOME INSURANCE AGENCY, INC. (RI)    
 
    118. METLIFE BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (USA)  
  119. METLIFE BIZTOSITO ZRT. (HUNGARY)    
 
    120. METLIFE CANADA/ METVIE CANADA (CANADA)    
 
    121. METLIFE CANADIAN PROPERTY VENTURES LLC (NY)    
 
    122. METLIFE CAPITAL CREDIT L.P. (DE)    
 
    123. METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST IV (DE)    
 
    124. METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST X (DE)    
 
    125. METLIFE CAPITAL, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (DE)    

126. METLIFE CC MEMBER, LLC (DE)    
 
    127. METLIFE CHILE ADMINISTRADORA DE MUTUOS HIPOTECARIOS S.A. (CHILE)    
 
    128. METLIFE CHILE INVERSIONES SPA (CHILE)    
 
    129. METLIFE CHILE SEGUROS DE VIDA S.A. (CHILE)    
 
    130. METLIFE CREDIT CORP.(DE)    
 
    131. METLIFE DIRECT CO.,LTD.(JAPAN)    
 
    132. METLIFE EMEKLILIK DE HAYAT A.S. (TURKEY)    
 
    133. METLIFE EU HOLDING COMPANY LIMITED (IRELAND)  
  134. METLIFE EUROPE INSURANCE LIMITED (IRELAND)    
 
    135. METLIFE EUROPE LIMITED (IRELAND)    
 
    136. METLIFE EUROPE SERVICES LIMITED (IRELAND)    
 
    137. METLIFE EUROPEAN HOLDINGS, LLC. (DE)    
 
    138. METLIFE EXCHANGE TRUST I (DE)    
 
    139. METLIFE FUNDING, INC. (DE)    
 
    140. METLIFE GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED (AUSTRALIA)    
 
    141. METLIFE GLOBAL HOLDING COMPANY I GmbH (SWISS I)(SWITZERLAND)    
 
    142. METLIFE GLOBAL HOLDING COMPANY II GmbH (SWISS II)(SWITZERLAND)    
 
    143. METLIFE GLOBAL HOLDINGS CORPORATION (MEXICO)    
 
    144. METLIFE GLOBAL OPERATIONS SUPPORT CENTER PRIVATE LIMITED(INDIA)    
 
    145. METLIFE GLOBAL, INC. (DE)    
 
    146. METLIFE GREENSTONE SOUTHEAST VENTURE, LLC (DE)    
 
    147. METLIFE GROUP, INC. (NY)    
 
    148. METLIFE HEALTH PLANS, INC. (DE)    
 
    149. METLIFE HOLDINGS, INC. (DE)    
 
    150. METLIFE HOLDINGS (CYPRUS)LIMITED (CYPRUS)    
 
    151. METLIFE HOME LOANS LLC (DE)    
 
    152. METLIFE INSURANCE AND INVESTMENT TRUST (AUSTRALIA)    
 
    153. METLIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF CONNECTICUT (CT)    
 
    154. METLIFE INSURANCE LIMITED (AUSTRALIA)    
 
    155. METLIFE INSURANCE LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM)    
 
    156. METLIFE INSURANCE S.A./NV (BELGIUM)    
 
    157. METLIFE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS, INC. (DE)    
 
    158. METLIFE INTERNATIONAL LIMITED, LLC (DE)    
 
    159. METLIFE INVESTMENTS ASIA LIMITED (HONG KONG)    
 
    160. METLIFE INVESTMENT FUNDS SERVICES LLC (NJ)    
 
    161. METLIFE INVESTMENTS LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM)    
 
    162. METLIFE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT, LLC (DE)    
 
    163. METLIFE INVESTMENTS PTY LIMITED (AUSTRALIA)    
 
    164. METLIFE INVESTORS DISTRIBUTION COMPANY (MO)    
 
    165. METLIFE INVESTORS GROUP, INC. (DE)    
 
    166. METLIFE INVESTORS INSURANCE COMPANY (MO)    
 
    167. METLIFE INVESTORS USA INSURANCE COMPANY (DE)    
 
    168. METLIFE IRELAND HOLDINGS ONE LIMITED (IRELAND)    
 
    169. METLIFE IRELAND TREASURY LIMITED (IRELAND)    
 
    170. METLIFE LATIN AMERICA ASESORIAS E INVERSIONES LIMITADA (CHILE)    
 
    171. METLIFE LHH MEMBER, LLC (DE)    

172. METLIFE LIMITED (HONG KONG)    
 
    173. METLIFE LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM)    
 
    174. METLIFE MEXICO CARES, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO)    
 
    175. METLIFE MEXICO S.A. (MEXICO)    
 
    176. METLIFE MEXICO SERVICIOS, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO)    
 
    177. METLIFE PENSIONES MEXICO S.A. (MEXICO)    
 
    178. METLIFE PENSIONS TRUSTEES LIMITED (UK)    
 
    179. METLIFE PLANOS ODONTOLOGICOS LTDA. (BRAZIL)    
 
    180. METLIFE POJISTOVNA A.S. (CZECH REPUBLIC)    
 
    181. METLIFE PRIVATE EQUITY HOLDINGS, LLC (DE)    
 
    182. METLIFE PROPERTIES VENTURES, LLC (DE)    
 
    183. METLIFE PROPERTY VENTURES CANADA ULC(CANADA)    
 
    184. METLIFE REAL ESTATE CAYMAN COMPANY (CAYMAN ISLANDS)    
 
    185. METLIFE REINSURANCE COMPANY OF CHARLESTON (SC)    
 
    186. METLIFE REINSURANCE COMPANY OF DELAWARE (DE)    
 
    187. METLIFE REINSURANCE COMPANY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (SC)    
 
    188. METLIFE REINSURANCE COMPANY OF VERMONT (VT)    
 
    189. METLIFE RENEWABLES HOLDING, LLC (DE)    
 
    190. METLIFE RETIREMENT SERVICES LLC (NJ)    
 
    191. METLIFE S.A.(FRANCE)    
 
    192. METLIFE SAENGMYOUNG INSURANCE COMPANY LTD. (SOUTH KOREA)-(also known as MetLife Insurance Company of Korea
Limited)    
 
    193. METLIFE SECURITIES, INC. (DE)    
 
    194. METLIFE SEGUROS DE RETIRO S.A. (ARGENTINA)    
 
    195. METLIFE SEGUROS DE VIDA S.A. (ARGENTINA)    
 
    196. METLIFE SEGUROS DE VIDA S.A. (URUGUAY)    
 
    197. METLIFE SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS, LLC (DE)    
 
    198. METLIFE SERVICES EAST PRIVATE LIMITED (INDIA)    
 
    199. METLIFE SERVICES EEIG (IRELAND)    
 
    200. METLIFE SERVICES LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM)    
 
    201. METLIFE SERVICES, SOCIEDAD LIMITADA (SPAIN)    
 
    202. METLIFE SERVICIOS S.A. (ARGENTINA)    
 
    203. METLIFE SOLUTIONS PTE. LTD. (SINGAPORE)    
 
    204. METLIFE SOLUTIONS S.A.S. (FRANCE)    
 
    205. METLIFE STANDBY I, LLC (DE)    
 
    206. METLIFE TOWER RESOURCES GROUP, INC. (DE)    
 
    207. METLIFE WORLDWIDE HOLDINGS, INC. (DE)    
 
    208. METPARK FUNDING, INC. (DE)    
 
    209. METROPOLITAN CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI)    
 
    210. METROPOLITAN CONNECTICUT PROPERTIES VENTURES, LLC (DE)    
 
    211. METROPOLITAN DIRECT PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI)    
 
    212. METROPOLITAN GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY (RI)    
 
    213. METROPOLITAN GLOBAL MANAGEMENT, LLC. (DE)    
 
    214. METROPOLITAN GROUP PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI)    
 
    215. METROPOLITAN LIFE ASIGURARI S.A.(ROMANIA)    
 
    216. METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (NY)    

217. METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF HONG KONG LIMITED (HONG KONG)    
 
    218. METROPOLITAN LIFE SEGUROS DE VIDA S.A. (URUGUAY)    
 
    219. METROPOLITAN LIFE SEGUROS E PREVID NCIA PRIVADA S.A. (BRAZIL)    
 
    220. METROPOLITAN LLOYDS, INC. (TX)    
 
    221. METROPOLITAN PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI)    
 
    222. METROPOLITAN REINSURANCE COMPANY (U.K.) LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM)    
 
    223. METROPOLITAN TOWER LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (DE)    
 
    224. METROPOLITAN TOWER REALTY COMPANY, INC.(DE)    
 
    225. METROPOLITAN TRAINING   CONSULTING S.R.L. (ROMANIA)    
 
    226. MEX DF PROPERTIES, LLC (DE)    
 
    227. MIDTOWN HEIGHTS, LLC (DE)    
 
    228. MISSOURI REINSURANCE, INC. (CAYMAN ISLANDS)    
 
    229. ML CAPACITACION COMERCIAL S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO)    
 
    230. MLA COMERCIAL, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO)    
 
    231. MLA SERVICIOS, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO)    
 
    232. MLGP LAKESIDE, LLC (DE)    
 
    233. MLIC ASSET HOLDINGS II LLC (DE)    
 
    234. MLIC ASSET HOLDINGS LLC (DE)    
 
    235. MLIC CB HOLDINGS LLC (DE)    
 
    236. MSV IRVINE PROPERTY, LLC (DE)    
 
    237. MTC FUND I, LLC (DE)    
 
    238. MTC FUND II, LLC (DE)    
 
    239. MTC FUND III, LLC (DE)    
 
    240. MTL LEASING, LLC (DE)    
 
    241. NAGASAKI OPERATION YUGEN KAISHA (JAPAN)    
 
    242. NATILOPORTEM HOLDINGS, INC. (DE)    
 
    243. NEW ENGLAND LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (MA)    
 
    244. NEW ENGLAND SECURITIES CORPORATION (MA)    
 
    245. NEWBURY INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED (BERMUDA)    
 
    246. OCONEE GOLF COMPANY, LLC (DE)    
 
    247. OCONEE HOTEL COMPANY, LLC (DE)    
 
    248. OCONEE LAND COMPANY, LLC (DE)    
 
    249. OCONEE LAND DEVELOPMENT COMPANY, LLC (DE)    
 
    250. OCONEE MARINA COMPANY, LLC (DE)    
 
    251. OMI MLIC INVESTMENTS LIMITED (CAYMAN ISLANDS)    
 
    252. ONE FINANCIAL PLACE CORPORATION (DE)    
 
    253. PARA-MET PLAZA ASSOCIATES (FL)    
 
    254. PARK TWENTY THREE INVESTMENTS COMPANY (UNITED KINGDOM)    
 
    255. PJSC ALICO UKRAINE (UKRAINE)    
 
    256. PLAZA DRIVE PROPERTIES LLC (DE)    
 
    257. PLAZA LLC (CT)    
 
    258. PREFCO DIX-HUIT LLC (CT)    
 
    259. PREFCO FOURTEEN LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (CT)    
 
    260. PREFCO IX REALTY LLC (CT)    
 
    261. PREFCO TEN LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (CT)    
 
    262. PREFCO TWENTY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (CT)    

METLIFE, INC.        As of December 31, 2012       Companies of which MetLife, Inc. directly or indirectly has
actual ownership (for its own account) of 10% through 99% of the total  outstanding voting stock  2              

1.  
  ALICO MUTUAL FUND MANAGEMENT COMPANY (GREECE) 90%         

6.  
  METLIFE INDIA INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED (26%) (INDIA)         

7.  
  METROPOLITAN LLOYDS INSURANCE COMPANY OF TEXAS   3    (TX)         

9.  
  PILGRIM ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS OPPORTUNITY FUND III ASSOCIATES, LLC (67%) (CT)     

2      
  does not include real estate joint ventures and partnerships of which MetLife, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries is an investment partner.     

3      
  Affiliate     

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 26
 d450627dex231.htm
 EX-23.1

EX-23.1 

Exhibit 23.1        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We consent to the incorporation
by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-170876, 333-170876-01, 333-170876-02, 333-170876-03, 333-170876-04 and 333-170876-05 on Form S-3 and 333-170879, 333-162927, 333-162926, 333-148024, 333-139384, 333-139383, 333-139382, 333-139380,
333-121344, 333-121343, 333-121342, 333-102306, 333-101291, 333-59134 and 333-37108 on Form S-8 of our report on the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules of MetLife, Inc., and subsidiaries (the
 Company ) dated February 26, 2013 and our report on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting dated February 26, 2013, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for
the year ended December 31, 2012.      /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP      New York, New York      February 26, 2013   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 27
 d450627dex311.htm
 EX-31.1

EX-31.1 

Exhibit 31.1        CERTIFICATIONS       I, Steven A. Kandarian, certify that:   
  1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of MetLife, Inc.;   
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying
officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15(d)-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and
       5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation
of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 26, 2013   

/s/ Steven A. Kandarian    
 
    Steven A. Kandarian    
 
    Chairman, President and     Chief Executive Officer    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 28
 d450627dex312.htm
 EX-31.2

EX-31.2 

Exhibit 31.2        CERTIFICATIONS       I, John C. R. Hele, certify that:   
  1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of MetLife, Inc.;   
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying
officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15(d)-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and
       5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation
of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 26, 2013   

/s/ John C. R. Hele   
 
  John C. R. Hele   
 
  Executive Vice President and   
 
  Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 29
 d450627dex321.htm
 EX-32.1

EX-32.1 

Exhibit 32.1       SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION      CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF CHAPTER 63 OF
TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED      STATES CODE      I, Steven A. Kandarian, certify that (i) MetLife, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 (the  Form 10-K ) fully complies with the requirements of
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and (ii) the information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of MetLife, Inc.   
  Date: February 26, 2013        

/s/ Steven A. Kandarian   
 
  Steven A. Kandarian   
 
  Chairman, President and  Chief Executive Officer   
 
   A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to
MetLife, Inc. and will be retained by MetLife, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 30
 d450627dex322.htm
 EX-32.2

EX-32.2 

Exhibit 32.2       SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION      CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF CHAPTER 63 OF
TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED      STATES CODE      I, John C. R. Hele, certify that (i) MetLife, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 (the  Form 10-K ) fully complies with the requirements of
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and (ii) the information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of MetLife, Inc.   
  Date: February 26, 2013        

/s/ John C. R. Hele   
 
  John C. R. Hele   
 
  Executive Vice President and  Chief Financial Officer   
 
   A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to
MetLife, Inc. and will be retained by MetLife, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 31
 met-20121231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 32
 met-20121231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 33
 met-20121231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 34
 met-20121231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 35
 met-20121231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 36
 met-20121231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

COVER
 41
 filename41.htm

COVER 

Miriam B. Fine   
  Assistant General Counsel      Law Department
     Tel 212 578-0423    Fax 212 251-1653   
  February 26, 2013        VIA EDGAR        Securities and Exchange Commission   
  100 F Street, N.E.      Washington
D.C. 20549      Dear Sir or Madam:      On behalf of MetLife, Inc. (the  Company ), transmitted herewith is the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 (the  Form 10-K ).
     The financial statements contained in the Form 10-K do not reflect any change from the preceding year in any
accounting principles or practices or in the method of applying any such principles or practices.           
  Sincerely,      /s/ Miriam B. Fine      Miriam B. Fine   
  Attachment         

